ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have a nice, good day! I begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roman Jakič, Franc Kangler, Jurij Malovrev, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Franc Pukšič, Franci Rokavec, Villa Trofenik and Jaša Zląbec. We're moving to 2. TIME OF DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE WORKING REHABILITATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF DISABILITIES. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body and prepared a written report. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 34th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 17.5.2004. I am putting to the debate Article 10a and the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats proposed that Article 10a be deleted, explaining that persons with disabilities status in Article 1 of the Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Affected Persons are moderately, difficultly and severely affected mentally and most physically by persons who cannot be trained for their own life and work and who are found to have been affected in the child or youth age of 18 years, or during regular schooling, but for a maximum period of 26 years, and therefore obtain and receive compensation for the disabled person’s allowance for foreign care and assistance. However, the proposal of this Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities regulates services, measures and incentives implemented with the aim of enabling persons with disabilities to work properly, i.e. those who are able to do so shall ensure economic independence, retain employment in it, advance or change their careers. The moderate, difficult and most severely affected persons shall be granted disability status and the right to compensation and allowance for foreign care and assistance at the request of the beneficiary, his legal representative or the centre of social work. For the majority of persons with disabilities under this law, legal representations, parents, because they are deprived of their business ability, which is determined by the court in the course of the evidence procedure; parental rights are usually extended to parents. If the law allowed these persons with disabilities to obtain the right to work rehabilitation if they found employers who were willing to work, they would be held responsible for their social security, and not only for the duration of their employment, because in this case they would be equal to non-disabled workers. If these non-disabled persons were to be employed and their disability deteriorated during the course of their employment so that they would no longer be able to perform their work, they should be completed before retirement in accordance with Article 68 of the Law, which covers at least one third of the working years from the age of 20 to the date of disability, which is counted as full-time, i.e. eight working hours. In view of the fact that the Social Protection Act provides for the most difficult physically and mentally affected persons who cannot be trained for their own life and work, these persons would often find it difficult to fulfil the minimum pension benefit of obtaining the right to a disability pension. Because the right to a disability pension, regardless of the pension age, could only be obtained by injury at work or by occupational illness at the time of employment. Not because of the disability that occurred before work. Under the Labour Relations Act, a disabled person who is qualified for certain jobs is considered to have a medical opportunity to conclude a contract of employment for these works. However, for persons with disabilities under the Social Protection Act, it was found that they could not be trained for their own life and work, so without a change in the state of disability, which was the basis for determining, it cannot be established under the second law that a person could be qualified for his own work and life and employment. We believe that under the new Article 10a of the Social Protection Act, disabled persons would cause irreparable harm, as they would be given the opportunity under unequal conditions, while at the same time taking away the social security granted to them by the State because of their gravest disability, it is said that in any case they would be discriminated against, which is contrary to the Madrid Declaration and therefore the United Nations Group of Social Democrats has proposed such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Germich to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, the justification of the proposal for deleting Article 10a has a lot of arguments. On the other hand, I would also like to explain the content and idea of this Article. And perhaps at the beginning of the interpretation, i.e. the status of a disabled person under the Social Protection Act reflects the medical assessment and determination of mental or physical deficiencies or abilities. For work unable, an assessment of the circumstances and abilities of an individual who cannot be, in our opinion or in my opinion, in the range of diagnosis. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary to separate disability as a medical condition of an individual from his or her personalities and other social and social activities in which he or she is involved. If disability is more or less permanent, the assessment of inability to work is acceptable. However, the current law on social protection of mentally and physically injured persons unjustifiably combines the heavier physical and psychological inability with the inability to do any profitable work, which practice itself sometimes denies. This status automatically commands the withdrawal of the right to work and prescribes some other substitute rights. Therefore, the status also lays down rights, which makes no sense, since rights should be exercised in the light of the different personal circumstances in which an individual is present. Rights are rights when they open new opportunities, opportunities, and challenges to an individual and thus enable him to improve the quality of life. Article 10a therefore does not mean the deprivation of rights or the duplication of rights, and therefore the intention of this Article is not in this sense, but merely the passage and adaptation of the networks of circumstances in which an individual is located. So it's about increasing the individual's potential and activities, it's about his life opportunity. So, according to the doctrine, of course, we want to create opportunities for different levels of disability, so that they can integrate themselves as closely and as successfully as possible into life. And of course the development of technologies, the development of different options every day changes these circumstances and creates a new situation. At the same time, we cannot avoid the fact that mentally and physically affected persons who have a status under the Social Protection Act are actually employed in practice. According to my information, there are some cases and, of course, this Article has also been proposed. Of course, we are aware at the same time, and we cannot agree that if someone were given the opportunity to find a job, the discussion could also be related to the correctness of this article's placement in this law and it would be possible to look at different solutions through other existing legislation that would solve this problem. I would also like to draw attention to this letter received from the Alliance, the association of societies to help persons with mental disabilities in Slovenia, which clearly speaks at the end of the first paragraph, gives an assessment first, quote: "We are convinced that such a solution is unthinkable and stems from the principle of good intentions," and adds, "but for a large majority of these persons, it is unacceptable and also impossible." Of course, we can agree on that, but when we talk about the vast majority, that means we are not talking about everyone. And the urgency of introducing Article 10a is precisely that, through a change, perhaps not in this article, and perhaps also the acceptable acceptability of adopting and supporting an amendment that speaks of deleting an article, but of course we would like to have other solutions that will, of course, indicate how for those individuals, because we will be able to speak here about individuals who will be able to find employment at a certain point. And of course, the intention is that, of course, we do not take from those who do so the rights that result from their status under the Law on Mental Health. And, of course, here we would not want these people with disabilities to come into a discriminatory situation and be threatened by their social rights. So, the idea is only in this, and if we don't change it in this law, to introduce such an option through the amendment of any other law, so that these people with disabilities don't get the right out of the state that was already given with some professional evaluation. In this regard, of course, our argument is also in terms of defending the survival of this article. And, of course, I would also like to hear representatives of the government see how they can see the solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. This Article, for which the United Kingdom proposes to delete it, concerns the following. Let me read in a nutshell: "An individual who has a recognised disability status can obtain the right to work rehabilitation if he finds an employer who is willing to work for him. For the duration of the job, the rights of such a disabled person rest." What's this all about? This is a novelty that has been greatly missed in our disability legislation. Because the assessment that someone with disabilities is a severe disability is made in some circumstances, at some point in his age, but in some situation. Of course, if the disabled lacks legs, the disabled person is disabled for the rest of his life, and surely such a person will not change his status and his condition will not improve, much worsen. However, in cases of mental illness, it is significant that there will be periods when the patient is fully capable of social inclusion. These periods are often, of course, some of the disorders are such that they are permanent, that there are no bright points in life, that there are no bright periods, but often these periods are present. These periods may take a few days, may take a few years, may take 20 years. And if someone is once given an assessment that he is a severe invalid, a psychiatric patient, then it is not said that there will be a period when he is able to work when he wants to work. We also see a great deal of therapeutic power in the work. The socialization of the patient is extremely important. And, of course, in such a case, if this article is lined, such a patient is sentenced to this status. Of course, it will not go into suspension of this status, into permanent interruption, in permanent withdrawal of disability status, for no one can guarantee that this light period will last 30, 40 years. Nobody. But with this article supported by the committee, we have allowed this man to try to work. If he finds the circumstances, if he finds the employer and so on. That he's trying to socialize. And if he can't, that's what this article says, he'll be able to return to disability. In fact, his disability rights will stand still during this time. Look, and now that you want to delete this article, you want to delete this option. It's like, say, a patient who's legless, like I said, and he's got a wheelchair, or if he's got legs, or if he's got legs, I'd like to try walking once, and I'd say, no, if you go 10 meters, we'll take away the wheelchair forever. Why don't we let the man try to walk? Why don't you try walking? And if he walks, let that cart come back, but let the right to the cart rest. Let him rest! If he can't, let's give him his chair back. That's all this is about, gentlemen, and that's all. And now, of course, man is quite surprised by the concern. I would cry when they say here, "Yes, but if we keep this article," then the proponents say, "If these persons with disabilities were to be employed and their disability deteriorated so that they would no longer be able to do their work, they should complete the retirement period, in accordance with Article 68 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which covers..." and so on. So, really, a man would just cry about that worry. But I'm asking if we're writing laws to get rid of this concern, and we're saying that we've arranged things because they're running, or we're writing laws to give people with disabilities the best possible experience in the social environment when they can. But we have to write laws, not on the skin of administrators and states that want to have as simple a thing as possible - and the easiest thing is to say, yes, if you walk, we will take the wheelchair, the spike, the end. Or we can write laws by providing the best possible life and the best opportunity for the disabled. And I think it's worth the effort and that the legislative branch of power needs to make an effort and find a way to find a solution to offer these opportunities to the disabled. A little more effort is needed, of course. Another law may have to be arranged, and some article in the law on pension and disability insurance may need to be changed, perhaps this need will manifest itself. But, of course, you have to try. And this 10.a article opens up this possibility. It opens the way for people with disabilities to try anything else - to try. And if they try, we won't take this status forever, we won't take the cart away from them forever, but we'll say, try, we'll help you with all your strength to socialize; you might be able to hold on to a job for one month, maybe five years, maybe ten years. In the previous debate, I have mentioned some examples of how this rigidity of our legislation has a fatal and destructive effect on the disabled, truly destructive. I could tell you right now if there wasn't a personal data protection law, a number of patients who were psychiatric patients in their 20s, 30 years of age became disabled. But when 40 or 50 years of age change the circumstances of their lives, when hormonal balance changes, or imbalances regulate and similar things, they become completely normal and fully fit for work. But there is no way that they would risk this because they are afraid, because, of course, this legislation does not allow them to do so now, does not allow it. And like I said, they're working in black because they want to work. And when they lose their jobs in black, there are cases, as I said, where this fate of an individual ends sadly. We appeal that the National Assembly retain this article, which was adopted by the Committee, and that we are not, in fact, afraid of the possible need for any other article to be aligned with what the future will of course show.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Just to let you know how you applied for the word: Mr Drobnic, Mrs Stanka Tutta, Mr Potrč and Mr Brenčič. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Drobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice welcome to the government! Look, this 10a article is very important. Those of us who dealt with the professional rehabilitation of disabled persons as rehabilitation advisers have already missed this provision in the 1980s. Therefore, flexibility to allow those persons, who are more severely affected, to enter employment, without serious risk, without risk of losing their fundamental rights. This provision therefore states that the right to work rehabilitation is allowed. This does not mean employment either, because if employment rehabilitation proves that such results are not achieved by a person, then employment will not occur and there will be no interruption or suspension of rights under the Social Protection Act of persons physically and mentally affected, so this right will not be allowed to stand still. Such an article is necessary and makes sense, you know, even if one person can be employed under this Article. It will weigh our weight and weigh our efforts or our efforts to introduce this provision. Definitely. And in professional rehabilitation, because of these human hardships, there are always cases that could thus resolve this hardship and come into a position of equal employment to those of others who are employed under the Labour Relations Act. You know, it's very important for these people, not just that they're doing something under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally affected persons in the form of some kind of employment occupation. The occupation is one thing, but to become a regular employee, to become a taxpayer, but it is something else, and in the light of the European citizen it is extremely important. Also become a taxpayer. We could complement this if there is a certain risk that too many people will appear in this recruitment facility, because it is only possible for people who are unemployed to join the unemployed. Those who, with the relevant authority, are not otherwise provided for in the decision not to be able to work. This could also be ensured by adding or supplementing this provision, that there is a reasonable presumption of a medical advisory service, which also deals with these matters, that the person has the capacity to be able to become so qualified in the process of professional rehabilitation that he may be employed under special conditions within the framework of a disability workshop. Even work changes, the circumstances of work, if we look at work 50 years ago, 60 years ago, then it was not possible to think that a paraplegic would hire a person with muscle dystrophy, where, much less. But if you look at the current situation, the current circumstances of work, and the technical aids, on the other hand, medical rehabilitation and social rehabilitation, then you can find that work can be miraculously done and that is precisely why it makes sense to include such a provision. In order to prevent these risks, such as conflict with basic legislation, employment, so that we cannot apply, we can make a supplement to the provision and make an exception, so that where the expert body's presumption is based and this professional rehabilitation is ensured. This could also be done in such a way as to avoid prejudicing, as it is difficult to determine in advance for this employment capacity, but perhaps through employment rehabilitation procedures, it would be possible to conclude that such a person is entitled to a set of rehabilitation services under Article 14, except for the twelfth indent concerning employment. That would also be, say, a solution. By also protecting the rest of the rules, there is some logic and, on the other hand, this is a really good opportunity to enter and rest rights. All those who have dealt with rehabilitation practices in the last 20s, 30s, have missed this and this is exactly what they miss to provide an opportunity, an opportunity for these people to re-employment. It is therefore possible that, after such preparations, he may still be employed in an intermediate workshop. These are the reasons why this Article 10a is maintained. We propose not to delete, but to make an effort until the third reading and to supplement the provision that, as far as this is concerned, it will be indisputable. So is my position and the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Madam Undersecretary of State, Mrs Stanko Tutta. Mr. Petty Officer, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government supports the proposed amendment to Article 10a, since the amendment does not therefore fall under this law on the committee responsible, because it does not deal with these issues that we want to address. Article 10a provides for an additional condition for disabled persons to find employment on their own, both non-systematic and under unequal conditions. It recognises the right to work rehabilitation. These unequal conditions, in addition to other criteria that the law also provides for other disabled persons, not only for the mentally and physically most affected disabled persons. People with long - term mental health problems are not included in this group and in this law. Therefore, the issues of these persons with disabilities are not regulated by this law and this article is not. However, it recognises only the right to compensation for disability, an allowance for foreign care and assistance and protection in general and special institutions or other families. This is because it has been found that they cannot be trained either for their own life or for their own work, and that their impact was due to the age of 18 or to the age of 26. The Social Protection Act lays down such conditions for the recognition of social security rights under this Act. Therefore, by means of the proposed provision of the Employment Rehabilitation Act, these persons with disabilities can be deprived of the social security rights recognised under the Social Protection Act because they cannot rest because they are not entitled to insurance rights, but the rights acquired by an individual because of the state of disability which has not changed. If a disabled person who had obtained such rights after the age of 18 had also been employed for a very short period of time, it would no longer have been possible for him to establish that his disability had occurred before the age of 18 and that he was such that he could not be qualified for his own life and work because he had been for a while, he had been trained or even employed. Therefore, it would no longer be possible to grant him compensation, which means that he would no longer be provided with social security. The Social Protection Act does not recognise the status of a disabled person but only the right to social protection rights. Most often, however, I could not exercise the right to a pension because it would be too short a period of employment. It is therefore necessary to amend the law on social protection of mentally and physically affected persons. And also to these most severely mentally and physically affected persons under the same conditions to enable the exercise of rights under the law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. At the same time, it would be necessary to allow such persons with disabilities to be employed, and it would be later concluded that, due to the disability of their employment, they could not retain, at least for a period of time, at least so that they could retire and obtain the right to a pension in order to exercise the right to compensation for disability and other rights under the Social Protection Act later as well. Therefore, they could still be provided with social security under the social protection law if they were also employed for a short period of time. This does not allow the present law to do so. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is already preparing a proposal for a law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons, which will also replace the law on social protection of physically and mentally affected persons, and will address a number of other services and incentives, as well as some other issues that should therefore be addressed by a group of persons with disabilities. The law will be ready for discussion no later than next year. We therefore propose that all these issues be regulated systematically, systematically and in the same way for all persons with disabilities in the law being drawn up. For this reason, we also propose that the proposed amendment to Article 10a be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have based this amendment on the Government's argument to delete Article 10. Mrs Tutta has now fully explained it and said it. Therefore, it is not right to think that the proposed amendment wants to prevent any involvement in the work of the most severely affected persons with disabilities. Surely we all know that inclusion in life, any social rehabilitation through employment is certainly an extremely positive situation for the situation, life, feeling, development and the like. However, it must be seen whether this can be arranged systematically in this way and whether the solution that we bring into this law would have negative consequences that we do not want. That is why I think it is wise and right that we accept this amendment and follow the reasons given by the government in this case. I do not accept the conclusion that it is only the efforts of bureaucracy and officials, because then in this area of disability and the regulation of the rights of persons with disabilities in our country, even with the help of these people, we would not have done as much as we did. And these are incorrect and simplistic claims. I have to say, I'm starting to think that we all want to solve and help solve these problems, not that we're seeing anything between us. And I believe that in this case the path that the government has decided to find solutions in other relevant regulations is better in a special law that will equalize these rights of the disabled, and I ask you to say, because of the stubbornness or because of the competition between us, we do not decide on a solution that would then cause us problems. In the parliamentary group, we do not think that we are special acquaintances or that we want something other than most of you, but we believe that in this area, the government, the ministry, the service, the social services that work know things to such an extent that they are shown to believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Since much has been said to you for your conduct: Mr Brenčič, Mrs Stopar, Mrs Črnugelj, Mrs Areh Lavrič, Mr Vizjak and Mr Drobnic. So you know when to get ready for the show. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. The content purpose on which the working body has adopted an amendment proposal by one of the representatives of the disability organisation and thus introduced a new Article 10a is certainly good, good and socially useful and even socially needed to give us the opportunity to release ourselves to people who want to be equal to other citizens in self-sustainment in self-sufficiency. Therefore, I can say that much of the content explanation or textual explanation of both the applicant and the representative of the government is a bit harsh and perhaps even, I don't know how to say, is too neglectful of the content, which is why this Article 10a was created. The only problem is this - and this content and article 10a also belong to this law, and this law really does refer to it - the problem is that it is in conflict with the previous law which grants this person the status of a disabled person or the right from the law which the National Assembly has adopted primarily for those persons with disabilities for the purpose of doing so. And if we want this content, which we need to implement and give this opportunity to release this desire of our own, this initiative is for people with disabilities who feel able to find their own employer and so on and so forth through their lives with their own ability to apply it. Of course, it would be necessary to amend the law or some of the provisions of the Social Protection Act which gives these persons with disabilities the right, the rights which would otherwise under Article 10a of the Peace, but it is difficult for them to rest because this initial law makes it impossible for them to work at all. So that, by the proposer, the intention, or by a government representative, is to amend this law, correct or, I would say, well-intentioned, but it is a pity that this has not already happened and that this content in this law could be lost because it is a matter of law. In such a way that, after consultation with many, especially the labour centres, there is a real possibility, not only the possibility, it can actually happen that this disabled person, who temporarily freezes the rights that go to him under the law on social protection of physically and mentally affected persons, is also lagging behind, not only to remain calm, but without amending the law, we will find it difficult to achieve the purpose that this article offers. So it's hard to make up your mind right now. We in the parliamentary group may not be able to support the amendment for these reasons, because for the best reason, we can do all the damage to these people, regardless of the fact that we know that this content needs to be put into law and given them this opportunity. It's also, as I said, socially beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Stopar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, and to all of you a very nice greeting! The provision made by Article 10a, adopted on the home working body, would like to draw attention to an area which is unfortunately not yet regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. The area of social protection of physically and mentally affected persons is still governed by the law in force in 1983, but does not take into account the changed circumstances resulting from its adoption. Here I am referring to the current technical means and technologies, or their foreseeable further development, which can help physically affected persons to integrate into their social and professional lives. The definition of this law that physically injured persons are not capable of living their own lives and doing their own work is outdated, inconsistent with the Constitution and incompatible with the concept of human special dignity. All constitutional rights, such as general personal freedom, freedom to work as well as the right to work protection and protection in view of the creation of employment opportunities, also go to these persons. It should therefore be noted that in practice there are cases where a disabled person who has the status of a law on social protection of physically and mentally affected persons has been employed. Article 10a therefore, I see as an attempt to ensure that, in the event of employment and subsequent termination of employment for various reasons, such a person does not lose his or her rights under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally disabled persons. From this point of view, Article 10 is appropriate, since in such a case it provides for a return to the previous state of rights already acquired under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally affected persons. On the basis of article 10a adopted on the working body, this article allows it to do so, so these rights are at rest. The proposed regulation in Article 10a also seems important to me from the point of view of ensuring public interest, as it relieves the public treasury and increases the social integration of these persons. It is therefore a matter of increasing the individual’s potential and activities. It is, as has already been mentioned today, his life opportunity. All individuals employed in this way and in their working careers would not be able to achieve conditions for disability pensions could benefit from rights under the Social Protection Act of the mentally and physically affected persons who had been employed and thus their social security would probably not be compromised. I agree with the government that this issue should be settled in another law. However, it is true that we are aware of the problem, because the problem presented represents changes in the content of the Social Protection Act to physically and mentally affected persons who are calling for urgent systemic change and additions, since it has already, I can say, been overrun long ago. It is therefore right to hear a firm promise when, how, where we will deal with this problem, which is pressing and which, after all, calls upon individuals who are already employed after solving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Nigga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I understand the dilemmas or reservations which Mr Germič has pointed out in his debate through the opinion of the Co-existence Society and also through its dilemmas, which are in some way due to the finding that technology and its development are boundless and that it can allow for rapid changes, as well as changes in the employment and employment of persons with disabilities. That's all true. And it is normal that the dynamics in this area are much greater, which just means that in fact these exclusions or discriminations of persons with disabilities, which we may once have had in the past, have been witnessed, are no longer entirely different now, and that the chances of people with disabilities being included in the labour, social, economic and other fields are equal. I also understand Mrs Stano Stoparje, who speaks of the theoretical discourse of Article 10a, which in any way wishes to show the possibility and opens up the real need for a law adopted in 1983 to change the law on social protection of mentally and physically affected persons. Finally, this law, which we are considering today, in its 11th article, states that the Minister responsible for this area will define certain criteria by means of his detailed rule. And last but not least, in the strategy that has been explained and adopted, it is clear that the law on equal opportunities will come with a real definition of the entire chain of mental diseases and all those priorities that will be given to individuals. From my practice, I can say that such an article, Mr Tsukjat, will by no means prevent the employment of mentally affected persons, disabled persons or patients, because so far this has been carried out in practice, since we have a number of experts who have been able to find and place each individual in the right place. Administrative obstacles may have been identified, but they will certainly be remedied in one way with all these steps, as shown in the Ministry's further part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. My word to Mrs. Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! We will not support this article today, the proposal of the United List. However, we support Article 10a, which was adopted on the home working body. But that's the explanation. People who are already stigmatized in society are allowed to conceal their lives. And that is not how we support this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Look, I would like to point out in particular two things that are very important to me to stress in this article and on this amendment. Firstly, that the government and also the Parliament, which is unable to take a very flexible approach to employment of these more difficult categories, in fact, and in this case even the unemployable population, cannot successfully deal with unemployment. I think that's the key issue. The problem of the stiffness of our approach in some populations, where we can help them, is even a host of formal obstacles. I certainly don't see anyone here in this House who wouldn't want to help this population in the right way. We are talking here today about different approaches. Someone advocates a two-year approach and someone sees in this article an approach that may help a disabled person before this two-year system solution. And if so, it would also apply and, of course, support what the Committee has also taken up in Article 10a. We have been waiting for this law since the beginning of the mandate. If you remember the debates on the Committee on Labour, Health, that is to say on the proper parent body, this law has long been promised and we have waited a long time to see it in the parliamentary procedure, and I hope it will be adopted as soon as possible because it represents a positive change. However, I think that this law would also apply to the implementation of a transitional solution that somehow solves the fate of at least one or two and then helps him. But why is he helping him? I believe that even those who are incapable of living themselves, not just jobs, I think there is an opportunity for them, even an opportunity in view of the full range of technological improvements that we have been given to do something about it. And the socialization of such a person seems to me to be crucial. And if someone finds an opportunity and even finds an employer, why do they also have to do with some systemic solution that I believe this article may not even save her, but at least it makes her a little more possible, and I think that even if we want to approach it constructively, we can also help a disabled person. Not so much that he will do something for himself or for what he earns or for his employer, but because he is likely, if he wants, to do so, he can greatly help with his daily problems associated with such a severe level of disability. So that I think the decision of the committee to support and, of course, to upgrade it with appropriate systemic solutions is valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u24	I didn't really understand the Government's arguments. You're talking about getting your rights suspended. No, the rights are granted and they just stand still, so this argument does not stand. It is not that it is completely diametric, that we oppose these debates, that is not what this is about at all. It's about giving you that extra opportunity to get into work. In addition, it must be made clear that if he finds the employer he is willing to accept, no person will be forced to do so. It will be able to preserve all rights under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally disabled persons. Well, there's no risk in that. However, if it is decided, then it is necessary to see what the consequences are after the end of the working relationship. They reinvigorate the rights granted to them. What about the pension? With regard to pensions, it's in our system, but unfortunately, it's well arranged. Those persons who do not have the right to a pension on the basis of the insurance period have a family pension, of course if their income does not exceed a certain amount of censorship from other headings. So that even as far as this is concerned, these persons are not bound, even if they have five years of insurance, it is not important, then they will gain the option of a family pension if they decide, or whether they will have from this title, which is probably better, because from the title of the Law on Social Protection of Physical and Mentally Affected Persons, this right is significantly better, it will be preserved and will continue. So, no forced action. I don't see the risk. If one or two of you decide because the technology will continue to progress because you may have or may have an employer who will be willing to accept it. Not just to increase their profits or to develop, I don't know, an entrepreneurial idea, but to help him in this way. You know, there are also people among the entrepreneurial layers who are also employed on these criteria, that they have no harm, as they are called, but that they are employed from this benevolent. They are, too, and let's give them a chance to get a job. That is why I recommend and suggest that we keep this 10th Article, not because we would therefore oppose those who are to be deleted, I know that you are not against the disabled, but why not open this option even if there is one person. Here I think we're not so different, but we're diverging into whether we can offer another option. Look. I think it's also reasonable to take time until the third reading to examine all the circumstances after the entry of employment and then in the third reading, there may be something else to be done. Or if you think, if you think you have to delete it yourself, it is also deleted. But I don't see any valid reason for this to go away, from all the knowledge I have from professional rehabilitation. Really, don't worry. It's about the mentally affected people who aren't involved. Unfortunately, this rehabilitation practice is such that persons with mental illness have not found a place in this social protection law, which is, of course, a process, a historical standing, even in other systems, it has occurred, but it has taken too long for us to do so and it must be incorporated under that law. I also see no problem here concerning this law, more about that other law on social protection of physically and mentally affected persons. I can see this provision, however, is very sympathetic, it tries and does so, thus eliminating this rigidity, making this flexibility, an open opportunity without risk, and this is important for these people, and we must not put these people at risk. In the framework of previous legislation, they would have done so, certainly because there was no article that would have allowed for the peace of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Madam Undersecretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear once again that this Article 10a does not constitute any greater protection of the rights of these persons with disabilities under the Social Protection Act. In fact, it does not solve any fate of anyone, no individual, because a severely mentally and physically affected person can be involved in training and employment under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. In fact, it brings less rights and the possibility of abolishing these entitlements and those rights, which they receive under the Social Protection Act for the very reason that we do not at the same time amend this law, which lays down the conditions for obtaining these rights. Therefore, it is not possible to say that we give these persons something by means of this law. Those persons who have applied for status or rights and who are compensated under the Social Protection Act, and some who have been able to work and are employed, therefore, in accordance with the existing regulation, this can be done. With this new or adopted Article 10a, we no longer give them anything, but we deprive them of the right to social security. For any person who is employed may retire according to the same criteria as are applicable under the law on pension and disability insurance for all others. The invalidity pension for these persons will certainly be significantly lower than the disability benefit they receive under the Social Protection Act, so these things need to be regulated by the Social Protection Act, where criteria, contributions, time of employment of such a person can be evaluated, also in their social benefits, which they would receive from incapacity to work, which will be determined later, after 18 years of age. That's basically why it's 10a. The article takes the rights and opportunities it gives in a way that is non-systematic and in some way pre-eminent. It is therefore necessary to regulate and amend it in the Social Protection Act, not in this Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. This is precisely the idea of this article that, of course, those rights that would be taken from them, because we are talking here about two rights under the two laws, the law on pension and disability insurance, which comes from the working relationship, and from the rights of another, the law on social protection of physically and mentally affected persons who speak of status. Of course, it is now the idea of this article that, of course, if a person with a recognised status becomes employed from such or different opportunities that life offers, and in the world, of course, we have more and more opportunities to develop technology. I'm no expert on these things, but let's say Steven Hawkins, who is, like, physically completely incompetent, of course, the mind of this and the past century. And of course, all we are talking about is that someone who had a status at the time of recognition, but this status could have been achieved in early youth, or held - in early youth - and, of course, someone who, after 20 years had the opportunity either to take his own initiative or to take the initiative of the environment or under different circumstances, speaks only of the fact that the rights granted to him from the status after the end of the period of employment for such or other reasons are preserved from the rights of social protection. Because, logically, if the working time is short, for such or other reasons, it is of course its social security, which will not be able to guarantee it under the law on pension and disability insurance, because disability did not occur at the time of employment, but was linked to the status of the disabled person before employment, of course, in this case his social security will be compromised. And here's the idea that the rights under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally injured persons should calm down. That's the idea that was presented here. It's very difficult to understand, of course, that this would be the way that this 10a would be. the article remained, whether these rights or the social security of such persons have been reduced or even withdrawn. Here's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Cukkathi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I really agree with what the Ministry's representative said, that this 10th article really does come out, and it's really not in the context of something. In fact, the whole legislation is, it's rigid, it grew out of office space, it didn't grow out of life. Suddenly, there is an article that responds to life’s pressures and to a life’s problems. That's what makes this difference! But I think this is a challenge that needs to be taken forward and the law needs to be written on the skin of the disabled and solved their problems and here is a real problem. And as Mrs Crnuglova said, we did not understand that people with disabilities would still be able to work, even if we do not accept it. Of course you did, but in your explanation you wrote: if this disabled person becomes employed, he will lose all rights, he will fall under the law on pension and disability insurance and so on. In order to ensure that you do not lose these rights, we will delete this article. I don't think there's been a chance so far, I don't think there's any need to repeat that this article opens it up, opens up the possibility that if the wheelchair is disabled, it's said: try walking, and if you walk 10 meters, we won't take the wheelchair for granted, we won't permanently take it away from you. You'll have the right if you can't keep walking so you can get a wheelchair again. But the whole marriage is made so that if you walk, you will never have a wheelchair again, it is a parable; so if you get a job, you will fall under a completely different law, which is much harder, much more unfriendly to a disabled person, does not allow you to return to disability and gain all those rights. This article, however, allows him to try his employment and, if he fails, he will be able to return to his status, for his rights will stand still. This is a new approach, but this approach is lacking in our legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. May I close the discussion on Article 10a or the amendment? Yes, you can. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 10a and open the debate on Article 12 and the amendment to this Article, the drafter is the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. I am opening a debate on Article 61 and the amendment of mags. Andrej Visiak to this article. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Of course, the essence of the Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is the introduction of a so-called quota system whereby, of course, an employer who does not employ an adequate quota of disabled persons will have to pay something for it in a special fund, and those who employ more than that quota will receive certain ratings. I think it is this approach that will, of course, ensure an increase in the employment rate of people with disabilities. In doing so, I would say that Slovenia, as far as the unemployed are concerned, is in a very bad place because we have about 28% of unemployment among the disabled. Compared to the development of countries, it can be found that developed countries have a lower rate of unemployed persons, but less developed countries may have very high rates of disabled persons, up to 80%. In fact, it could even be argued that the unemployment rate of the disabled is somehow inversely proportional to the development of the country. This is said to those who are more developed have a lower unemployment rate for disabled persons, but on average the unemployment rate for all is still much higher than the normal unemployment rate. Therefore, measures leading to some stimulation of the employment of persons with disabilities are, of course, necessary. And the quota system is a good basis for this and that is why I also fully support the idea of this law and the introduction of the quota system. However, if there is insufficient motivation, in particular for those employers who are involved and used and financed by the State budget, from public resources, if they are not a model for the private sector and all others, then these measures and the quota system will not have any results or effects. I therefore propose in the amendment that a mandatory quota should be laid down in the law for state and local authorities and public institutions, in fact for the public sector. A 5% quota is proposed here, which means that some employer who employs 100 employees with 100 employees would employ 5 people with disabilities. I think that this is within and within the interval set by the government in the draft law as a quota interval of between 2% and 6%, and that such a measure would, of course, significantly contribute to the goal, so that the rate of unemployed persons with disabilities is reduced by about 29% down. The amount could also be lower if the problem in Slovenia was smaller. However, the problem of unemployed persons is pressing, and we propose that this quota be laid down in the law. In fact, I think that the amendment itself has and has no financial implications for the state budget, because, of course, as much as the State should devote to certain employment opportunities to ensure this quota, on the other hand, it will no longer have to pay those benefits that the unemployed, or the recipients of any compensation, receive as unemployed persons. It also follows from the practice analysis in Europe that some countries have mandatory quotas for the public sector and do not actually have quotas for the private sector. I am convinced that it is good and positive to have a quota for one sector and another, but I am convinced that a quota for the public sector should be established by law. Why? Since, according to the proposal of the law, it is envisaged that the government will fix the quota on an appropriate proposal. I know the government is also a great employer. And if the employer prescribes a quota for himself, it can be very barren. I therefore believe that if we are to achieve the purpose and achieve the objectives of this bill, we must also gather so much courage in this national assembly and determine what the employer must do within the framework of the objectives of this law. I am also the responsible person of an employer who has about 45 employees, and I know that with a small effort we would achieve that employer would have two to three disabled people; in fact, he already has one. And few public resources would be needed to hire a disabled person in a new job. In short, the desire of this amendment is actually to realize the purpose and purpose of the law and to achieve a reduction in the unemployment rate of the disabled in Slovenia, as I have already said twice, is very high and attractive.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Drobnik, Mr Brenčič, to the floor. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u34	Already on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, an amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members to set a quota of 6% for the public sector. This time it's 5%. We support this initiative because it is useful for the current situation in the country. The unemployment of the disabled is extremely high. However, even if we assume that, for example, about 2 or 3% of people with disabilities in the state sector are already employed, and if we add 2% more, this would mean that maybe 300 or 400 people would get a job; not immediately, of course, but in some certain period of normal recruitment of new workers, just in the coming period. This would be the minimum contribution of the public sector to the normalisation of the integration of persons with disabilities. If we assume that in Slovenia there are more than 20,000 unemployed people with disabilities - that is, the official statistics provided by the employment agency are not valid, because there is a hidden record of about 10,000 or more persons with disabilities - this would not mean a dozen unemployed persons who would thus gain employment in the next period. If people with disabilities are employed after the dynamics they have so far, this is summer at the level of 1,000 people, then they would need to hire all the disabled, say, write 25 years. 25 if you'd like to hire all the disabled. At the same time, of course, to assume that no one in these years will apply again to the Employment Service. That's terrible information! That is why we should make such decisions with much more affection and support, such legislation that opens the door to employment. In Canada, they have adopted the principle of fair employment, principles which are, of course, legal as a principle, and must be implemented in practice. What's it like? Each category defined by the category of persons on the labour market must have equal opportunities for entry into employment. Wherever it is shown that it does not have the same, and this is the most evidence of unemployment, measures must be taken. And Slovenia is clearly and loudly considered that the category of persons with disabilities is discriminated against when entering the labour market, and this is essential. Because unemployment in Slovenia is about 10% there. In Slovenia there are about 107.108.000 unemployed people. At the moment, we should look at the hidden records and the regular records and get the exact unemployment records. Unemployment is rising slightly. It is not like Prime Minister Rob says that it is falling, that this record should also be counted because it has unemployment status. Aliso on the market is acceptable or not or as defined by the administrative service, this is not important. It is important that they have registered that they do not have a job and are able to work. That's essential. This is registered unemployment. And that's why all the comparisons you're doing now, where you don't take into account this hidden record, compared to the past period, are nothing, they're really nothing. Mr. Minister, you have a doctorate and you know how to measure it statistically, you should measure it together. Or give another option that takes account of or does not take account of these records. That's fair, that's professionally fair, and everything else is political blurry. That's right. On the basis of this basic discriminatory principle or the principle of equal opportunities, the principle of equal opportunities is, in fact, invoked in Canada, in order to ensure employment. Therefore, it is set up by the State to regulate the imposition of such laws, whereby persons with disabilities may equally be employed. And second, it is that it also guarantees a principle such as now with the proposal to set the quota. And it's easier for the public sector to set a higher quota. After we have actually come to the realization of this provision, it will show how many people with disabilities are actually employed, and I will tell you that there are certainly three to four percent of people already employed who fall into the category that is included in the quota. You'll see how they suddenly show up! People with mental impairment, those who went to special institutions for the blind, the deaf and so on. You will see what will suddenly become a lot of disabled people already employed in the public sector. And there will be practically very few new jobs. Even if the quota is 5%, that's 1% lower than we suggested on the committee. In short, this proposal should be fully supported. And if we look at comparisons in other countries such as Belgium and the rest of Austria, as well as the Czech Republic, we see that they have different quotas for the private sector and the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. If we come from an assessment of the situation or a comparison of what it is like to employ people with disabilities, then we find that virtually the public sector, and even the state and local administrations, does not employ literally anything. Then, when we adopt a law that makes a quota commitment, for example, the real sector, it is an opportunity to stand firm on this data and change the trend here. It may be justified for such non-employment in the public sector that a large part of disability or disability is generated in the real sector. It is true that jobs in the real sector are such that, while ensuring security, there is still a high potential for someone to lose health or get injury in the workplace. On the other hand, it is true that jobs in the public sector have made it much easier to employ a disabled person, who, of course, has been trained or given professional rehabilitation. And given that the trend is that way and that the government has for so many years not changed this trend, it is difficult to trust what Bianca believes she will now set, while for the real sector we are concrete. Will you work or will you contribute money to the fund? Therefore, I believe that the public sector should also be bound by the law in the quota system, not to give the government the exchange rate. No! No! It may be expected, since the starting point is virtually nothing or very little, that this percentage is high. I think it's gonna be hard to reach him, too. However, I know that it is easier to achieve it in the public sector than it is to achieve in the real sector. In addition, we need to know that, at the annual level, traffic and road are the ones producing the crowd, the crowds of people with disabilities, the masses of parapregics, and it is not the fault of jobs and the public sector that is here with all the technology that today, from information technology to other technologies, is available, those who are certainly better equipped with a job to hire this disabled person. I propose, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support this amendment. Also to keep the article open. However, it is necessary to assess the real capacity, and it is realistically possible that this article in the public sector can also be implemented in law at the level of this limit. If 5% is too severe, then this percentage has also been reduced in the third reading, but I think that if we are serious about making a move in this area, we must accept this legal commitment to the public sector in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would like to invite the Minister, Mr Dimovski, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to take a look at what Mr Member Drobnic has been saying around the numbers. Because he's been talking about unemployment statistics and so on. I think I need to stop by here because he's been operating on numbers that don't hold. The simple question is now, what numbers and what numbers are we actually using. Internationally comparable - I have said this many times - is a number that speaks of unemployment by definition of an international organisation of work - whether you want it or not. That's the only number we can cross-reference internationally is this number. And this number says that there are slightly more than 60,000 unemployed in Slovenia. We can talk about this. However, as regards registered unemployment, each country has a legal definition, depending on its needs and its definitions, and we have adopted this definition together. I think that you voted in favour of the law in 2002, where a more transparent, transparent record has been established, that it is a record that we have now gradually established. See, Britain - The United Kingdom has only registered unemployed persons by definition who receive compensation, and these are 2 to 3%. This is said, given the practically legal definition of registered unemployment, each country in some way has its registered unemployment as defined in order to lead successfully, so to speak, employment and other policies. Now let's move on. If you wanted everything to say aggregates over a multi-annual period, then even those changes that increase the number of unemployed due to legal changes would have to be taken into account here in order to get yours in some way a comparable distance of time. For example, the Social Protection Act has brought about an increase in the number of unemployment due to the inclusion of new categories by more than 5,000 people. Do you think we should include you in some way? Probably not. In fact, it is the recommendation of the Council of Europe that we reduce the difference between so-called registered unemployment and unemployment by definition of an international organisation of work; we have the greatest difference. And one more thing. I hope you will be pleased to know that the latest data on the number of unemployed in Slovenia is for 30.4.2004 93.500, which is at least in Slovenia alone. And this is also the result of an effective policy, despite the fact that we have been facing an extremely poor policy over the past few years, an extremely bad economic situation. In fact, our biggest export partners, this is Germany and so on, have virtually zero levels, and this has the most impact on the reduction of activities in the domestic market as well. However, as regards the numbers and questions concerning the unemployed, I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tutta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. An analysis of available data on the employment of disabled persons in employers who employ more than 20 employees in all activities in Slovenia shows that the average proportion of disabled persons in all employees is 5.2%. The lowest percentage of disabled persons among all employees is in public administration, defence and compulsory social insurance, of which 2.2%. This is followed by a 2.7% financial intermediation activity and 2.9% education. While the employment of disabled persons is in health care and social care, i.e. in public services as well as 4.9% and in other public common and personal services as well as 3%. This is the current situation according to the available data. If the law prescribed a mandatory quota of 5% to state and local authorities and public institutions, as proposed by the amendment, they should employ 2,662 persons with disabilities from 1.1.2005, of which 1,245 persons with disabilities in public administration, defence and compulsory social insurance, and 1,104 in education, among other things, are the largest. Rather, employers should only invest in these activities in the Fund, taking into account the amount of the contribution to non-compliance with the quota, 205 million. Given that such a number of new jobs in these activities cannot be created in such a short period of time and, on the other hand, there is no such number of well-trained persons with disabilities, as there is still a great deal to be made available for such jobs, we propose that you do not support the amendment tabled in Article 61, because this will allow for a gradual increase in the employment of persons with disabilities in both state and local authorities and public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please, then Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u42	Mr. Minister, there is a need for replication, given that you provided the data and mentioned me as well. Unemployment under the criteria of international organisation of work is internationally comparable. And I didn't deny it to you, not to the Ministry, not to the Employment Service. The criteria are the same, the measurement procedures are identical and the data are comparable. However, it should be stressed that registered unemployment is not entirely comparable between countries. However, it is reasonable and good to compare it within a country, longitudinally, over a period of time. But when you compare it like that, you have to do it professionally, so you have to include that other category, or you conditionally define it that you have two types of data display, as I told you. So what's with the 14,000 people? Are they unemployed or not? If you say that they are not unemployed, they do not meet the conditions for registration and do not meet the conditions for obtaining unemployment rights. This, however, is a cash benefit, a cash benefit and a pension and disability benefit if they are not unemployed. But if they are, then put them in statistics. That's why it's going! So you, by silent landings, probably also them, because users of rights, put them on a dead run where there is no need to show the will to work, which is the basis for meeting the conditions of unemployment. On the other hand, this will of expression to work is also necessary for them to receive compensation, whatever the case. And here comes the rabbit. It is therefore right that you display registered unemployment with everyone - you can separately in this way, so that we have pure comparative data. Do you think that there were no such persons in Slovenia 10 years ago, not in the registers? Exactly. And that's why comparisons don't hold you professionally. If the same criteria were to be applied at that time, even if they were to be redefined, those who would fall within the category of special records, then I would have admitted this explanation to you and would have said that it is professionally correct. In that case, I can't tell you. And that's what all those who take statistics seriously will tell you. But we can talk about these 107.000 unemployed, how much easier it is to work, who are harder to work, who are willing to work, or who are lacking the ability to work. And that can also be proved, but in this way, that is professionally fair, and we will not stand on opposite shores, but we must be consistent as far as that is concerned. In fact, the available workforce, which is in the true sense of the word, is through the criteria of an international labour organisation. I fully agree with that. This is the one that the employer can grab right away and is available. We will also have to face the problem of student employment, where if we transform into jobs, it means about 25,000 jobs, and I doubt that all students work. If he's working 50% of his students, I'd be happy. This, while we are in the EU, is likely to be accounted for; but we ourselves, in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, then Mr. Minister. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u44	It was interesting to listen to statistics and it is good to know the figures in the public sector regarding the employment of people with disabilities. And if I understood correctly, the Secretary of State said that the proposed amendment would somehow lead to 2,600 new jobs in the public sector. This is for good 11,000 disabled persons, this is the data in the introduction of this law, not even such a great achievement. In fact, from the data which are at the beginning of the law and which are evident from the assessment of the situation, it is clear that we have, I stress once again, you have spoken before, but you did not hear me, so you did not object to me either - approximately 28% of the unemployment rate in the disabled, since we have about 40,000 disabled people in the labour market, employees and unemployed, of which there are good 11,000 unemployed. And that's it. I think the proposal is in place, and the percentage is in place. Of course, the secretary of state here says that this will cost something and that it will have to be paid into the fund. Normally, for this fund too - those who do not do so are paying where they will be drawn to make it easier for people with disabilities to work. I think it's kind of necessary for our country to commit itself to doing this more responsibly. However, if the government sets itself a quota and dynamics, I fear that the effect of this law will not be good, because there will be a whole set of objectivity - that there is no workforce in the school market for disabled persons, we cannot increase the quota there, so that this public sector is different in this public sector. This debate reminds me of the topic of the professionalization of the Slovenian army, when the opposition proposed some dynamics, the government said, "Where, however, we cannot, because we are not capable because we are unable" and so on. Finally, it only gave in and some compromise dynamics of the introduction of the professionalisation of the Slovenian army were also adopted. And similarly, a little more ambitious, we are proposing to the government on the subject of employment of people with disabilities, and it is likely that no one will regret it, not even for those good 200 million paid into this fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tutta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Perhaps just another explanation that the adoption of this amendment should provide 2,660 jobs in the state and public administration with effect from 1.1.2005. This means that so many of these jobs are not available in these activities and there are not so many disabled persons to be employed from 1.1.2005. However, since the law speaks of a range between 2 and 6 percent, it is possible to gradually increase. In line with the creation of appropriate jobs and the training of disabled persons, they will also be employed in appropriate jobs. The proposed amendment wants all of this to happen from 1.1.2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u48	I also agree, and I believe that 2,600 jobs cannot be provided. However, they will be able to be provided in six months, in one year, in two years' time - even when the state is paying into the fund for this purpose. We know that the Fund is specifically designed to promote the development of the employment of people with disabilities. This is said to be the money the state will give because the quota does not meet, precisely so that it will be able to employ tomorrow. And that's the purpose of the law. And now we're drooling over the fact that we can't get a job. That's why we have the fund so we can get a job. And, of course, if it's not in some way for the state to do so, it won't happen, and this dynamic will be five years, not two years. I believe that, with 1.1.2005, it is not possible to ensure that the entire public sector will meet this quota; as it will never, nor will the private sector, nor the public sector, but it will be penalised or, I would say, will have to pay certain funds into the fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u50	I support this proposal, if the government believes, on the basis of really good data, which I doubt is really good information, because it is difficult to identify the actual situation of the labour market with regard to disability, because some do not want to be identified as disabled and may have forgotten that decisions have been made at home - any, including with regard to other rules. You will see that this will certainly happen, but in the preceding provisions you could state that otherwise the law applies so much as 5%, that there is a transitional period in 2005 where there are four or three and we have a stage. It is that this improvisation, or imperative, is to be put up more boldly than in other countries if 2005 is too risky. But I'll tell you when it starts to come to light or when employers start to meet this quota, they'll first look at what's going on with their people, and they'll look for where they have some documents, maybe from categorization, or from disability, or recognition of physical impairment, or I don't know what else. And they're going to make decisions and immediately increase the number of people with disabilities without anyone hiring. I think there's about 3% definitely, up to 4%. So if you had given the interim period until 2005, it would have been four, but it would have been okay already. Nor would the government be in trouble or for government services, the ministry would not have been too big a nut. In the light of the necessary employment, we would arrange a new one. You probably think, because the government will determine itself in advance, within the framework of that article that is in there, but I think it is right that the law will set itself up for the public sector because the government will not like to impose any such requirements on itself. They'd better be Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 6.40 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the session, because at 11.55 a.m. we will continue to discuss the 4th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. I thank the representatives of the government and the Minister very much for his cooperation. So at 11.55, we proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u52	Let's get back to work. We're moving to four. At the top of the agenda, this is the first defence proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed mag. Majdo Potrat. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members, signed first by Rudolf Mohet, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. It's gonna be a mag. Majda Potrata
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We were thrilled at the beginning of May, but this cannot be measured by the one that excited me when I first saw the history of Slovenian yesterday. So let me quote from the opinion of the best knower of the monuments of Brigin this time, Dr. Igor Grdine: "The language must be developed, not preserved. In all the current language debates, that is precisely what is wrong, because the final stages - this is not the case. It's the life of the tongue." The proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian lays down more precisely Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution as an official language. The Framework regulates the use of the official language in the broadest sense, as is normally the case for the official languages of other nations, thereby providing it with a specific status through the Constitution and indicating the established language usage patterns. With this design, there is some kind of basic legal information on the situation of Slovenian and its forms of communication as well as on the first language of the large majority of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the importance of this language also for a culture of public communication. The bill was created on the basis of a proposal for a law on the use of Slovenian as an official language submitted by Dr Zoltan Jan on behalf of the Council of State in October 2000. On the first reading of the draft law on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport in June 2002, a decision was adopted on the proposal of the proposer to suspend the hearing, and he also committed himself to: "by 1 September he will prepare the law in a manner suitable for further consideration by the Committee." On 25 September 2002, the motioner announced the withdrawal of the law in order to introduce a new text of the draft law of the Group of Members and to take over the revised text from the working group for the preparation of the replacement text, led by Dr Janez Dular. The President of the Council of State pointed out in his statement of withdrawal that some of the solutions in the draft law still needed to be verified and coordinated with the competent ministries, so in November 2002 a letter was sent to the ministries, to the Government Office for Law and European Affairs, to the Information Office and to the Chamber of Economic Affairs. Their responses arrived between 12 November 2002 and 3 March 2003. We have also drawn up individual solutions to the law from these comments and after consulting the Ministry of the Interior and in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. In April 2002, the research sector of the National Assembly prepared a comparative review of the legal arrangements for the use of official or national language in 15 European countries. We have selected four cases from it, namely Finland, France, Italy and Sweden. In the comparative analysis conclusion, I can read the conclusion, stating: "In the last period, the commitment of most countries to the protection of their languages has been increased, which is undoubtedly attributed to globalisation and to its associated fear of the domination of the English language." [[End of story.]] In doing so, it points out that comparisons are useful, but there is a strong understanding in language that each community has to solve its language problems on its own, because each situation is unique, a web of different factors and is unrepeatable. Some legal dilemmas. If we consider the fundamental dilemma of the necessity or non-necessity of the law, which has often been publicized at different times and in different intensitys, due to the constitutional provision and a few dozen sectoral laws that speak language, the fundamental task of determining the concept of law was for the proponents. At the first reading on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, and earlier on in the Working Group on Language Policy and Language Planning, there was a clear difference in terms of the concept of the law, with some stressing the threat of the Slovenian language and others stressing the better position of the Slovenian language it has than ever before and the new opportunities for development offered to it in the future. We have decided to correct the original text and not to write a new text, to come up with the concept of a general, roofing or roofing law on the public use of the language, based on the provision of a Constitution which guarantees the status of the official language in both languages of the national communities in the linguistically mixed territories, and to place the use of language as a subject of language planning and language policy at the centre. We therefore came from a previous version of the law, but we changed the title, wrote a new introduction, carried out legal and technical interventions in the articles, added a new explanation of the articles and used the list of laws containing the language provisions of the previous draft law as an annex. We have done the least in criminal provisions and inspection, and the biggest change is definitely the release of provisions on the Slovenian language office. The biggest change is therefore the chapter on the tasks and responsibilities of the state authorities, in which we have designated the Ministry of Culture as a bearer ministry, but we have not intervened in the issues of the internal organisation at the Ministry of Culture. We have only imposed on him the monitoring, implementation of this law, the development of language policy and the provision of opportunities for its implementation. In this way, we have only prepared a legal basis for already in the national programme for culture a forecast objective that speaks about the use and promotion of Slovenian development. Therefore, the aim is to promote the development of the Slovenian language in the public life of Slovenian society. To achieve this objective, an active language policy is needed. This is a coordinated cultural, political, economic and contractual dimension of the language use, which is based entirely on Slovenian linguistic tradition and is also preserved in new situations. We also form the European Union in our own language for all areas of public life, which have its own rules, vocabulary and other bases and its own style of design. We will also be able to develop our linguistic identity in new situations, because the European Union accepts the idea of multilingualism, respect for and development of linguistic diversity, and even though it comes from different speaking positions to specificities in the choice of language and its use, this will be regulated by appropriate language policy - not by restricting, but by raising awareness and encouraging. The important task of language policy is to integrate all sources of language development and its agents and to promote their activities. Therefore, it is of central importance that an article imposes on the establishment of a national language policy programme. Its implementation is the responsibility of the government as a whole, as well as of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in both the provision of budgetary resources for its implementation and the monitoring of the effectiveness of the envisaged language policy measures. The law should draw attention to the language of all citizens and citizens, especially those who are active in any way in the public domain. Its acceptance would ensure the regulation of an area that has so far been left too often to individual knowledge of extradition, contractual patterns to its current relationship. A good guide will be given to the development of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and to the language habits of Slovenian speakers. As we encourage foreign language learning, let us also give Slovenian an opportunity in new links and situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you. With us is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, Cyril Baskovic, whom I welcome. It will be followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Vojk Celigo for the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners - DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, hello! Greetings to colleagues and colleagues as well! Slovenia is an essential and fundamental reason for the existence of the Slovenian state. Without it, our national independence would be pointless. We fought the Slovenian country precisely to protect and develop our individuality, which is marked by Slovenian language. It is true that the Slovenian language today has been comprehensively developed, which for the first time in history also controls all the speech problems of all the different social activities, but it took a long time for this to be fought some 150 years ago, for example, for the right to use Slovenian in schools and offices, and for the implementation of Slovenian in the military a few years and decades ago. Both were self-sustaining efforts and the loss of language in particular areas would result in self-registration of the beating of national autonomy. It is not true that such a comprehensively developed and established Slovenian language is not at risk today. Cankar’s idea of its eradication, which is a thousand years old story, is certainly no longer valid for the 21st century and the next. Slovenia has indeed endured the thousands of years of pressure from neighbouring languages, but it has abstained in circumstances that are in no way comparable to today’s and tomorrow’s. Slovenian is not a small language, since it is, by its expressive power, completely comparable to the big European languages, but it is a language spoken by only a small number of speakers. However, it is not even among the smallest; it is in the middle of 60 European languages according to this criterion. Yet, it is precisely because of the small number of speakers, and it is only because of this that it is difficult to oppose Italian, German, and English. We could say that it is a small critical mass, which is being dangerously reduced all the way back to favourable demographic movements. This small Slovenian language community is threatened so much more because it is not placed in any European corner, but in one of the most frequent and because European crossings can be exposed. In all of this, it is quite obvious that the fate of the Slovenian and thus of the Slovenian people is in our hands. Before and more than strangers, we threaten it ourselves, with our humility and weak or even no self-confidence, for which one of the reasons is also for decades and still neglected native education. After achieving the degree of cultural development, we are undoubtedly equal and equal to all others in the European people. Because of the small and small size of our ethnic space with our neighbors, we had to speak their languages from time to time. The old pronunciation, as many languages as you know, is as valid today as ever. It also applies almost literally; knowledge of foreign languages actually increases our national strength, which can be exercised by many as a comparative advantage in the economy as well. And it is true that we learn foreign languages easily, but with the same ease or even ease of care, we ignore our mother tongues everywhere. It is also in public use, which is most obvious to both locals and foreigners. And right here, in this segment, it is possible and must be legally protected immediately. It is true that the power of all our thoughts, feelings, search, and knowledge is perfectly expressed only in the mother tongue, in which and with which we grew from our early childhood, so that we became part of it, and he is part of our essence. We cannot do this in a foreign language if we can master it so well. That is why he insisted on Prešeren, which could also become an important German poet. Trubar and his were aware of this, so they made sure that we had received the entire Bible in our own language some 450 years ago. And we have also been in Europe for more than a thousand years, because the monuments of Brigitte are the first record of Slovenian, and at the same time the first entry of some Slovenian language in Latin. The timely adoption of the proposed law now that we have crossed the threshold of the European Union will be a key historical act, even a fateful political action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much. It's got magic in it. Mr Andrej Vizjak for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President. I would like to start by thanking Mrs Majda Potrata, a fellow Member of Parliament, that she has also drawn the Slovenian Democratic Party to the fact that we have co-signed this law, which I think is a useful and good basis for finally settling this important issue in our country and in our language. I think there is an emphasis that in the pursuit of convergence, following the integration of the different countries of Europe and the world, and of course also because of the wider use of some languages commonly used, so-called world languages, there is a long-term problem with national languages and with our mother tongues, not only elsewhere in Slovenia. That is why, of course, countries have approached the appropriate treatment of their mother tongue to provide it with the right place in their country and among their people, both in public use and in education and at every step of our daily life. I am convinced that the legislative proposal we signed in the Slovenian Democratic Party is a good basis for regulating this issue. It is true that this marriage proposal has also caused a number of controversy in professional circles, but not only in professional circles, but in particular in certain interest circles. In particular in those interest circles where there are conflicting interests regarding the use of domestic language and certain internationally established names and names, in particular companies and multinationals. I think that this power to resolve in the same way that the law was created by a certain consensus within politics, which is useful for the Slovenian language and, last but not least, useful for our economy. Similarly, I think that this law is a good framework and a basis for measures to promote the development and use of Slovenian. And it is urgent because the protection of our language as a language spoken by some two million people in this world is also essential. Globalisation and, last but not least, our smallness are the key reason that something has to be done here. I hope, of course, that this law will receive support at this session, it is said, in the first reading, that it is a good basis and a suitable basis for further consideration and that, of course, we will also find answers to some of the key dilemmas. I would also stress the importance of Article 4 which speaks about language policy and in some ways puts pressure on the future and thus on the development and existence of Slovenian in our country. In short, the approach taken by the Member in the adoption of this law, which is of national importance, is commendable and, of course, should be applied on a number of occasions when we are talking about topics that need to be experienced by a broader political consensus; and the public use of Slovenian is certainly a topic and an area where politics is precisely politicized, but it must ultimately reach a common point and thus an appropriate consensus solution. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the conclusion that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration and thus finally open up the provision of the law and, of course, we have also certainly come to the adoption of the law in this mandate of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Only Bevk gets the floor, will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the law on the public use of Slovenian, which was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members from all parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly with a first-signed delegation of mags in this year's cultural holiday. Majdo Potrato. Slovenian language or Slovenian is defined by Article 11 of our Constitution as an official language in the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is therefore a constitutional category, and the position of the Slovenian language is regulated by many other laws. 68 are listed in the annexes to the draft law. Therefore, at least since 1996, when the first proposal of the Slovenian Language Act appears, the professional and other public question is whether or not such a law is necessary. Given my knowledge of this issue, I can say that professional arguments have prevailed in favour of the law on the public use of Slovenian. However, it is right that we focus on the law to the fullest extent without any shortcut, so I was also one of the proponents of the general debate. In the resolution on the National Programme for Culture, which we adopted in the National Assembly this year, we wrote that it is important for the role of culture in the life of the Slovenian National Community that, through just some of the main factors of Slovenian cultural development, there has been a political awareness of the rights of the national community, first to its own language and then to all other freedoms. Finally, to state autonomy. Although Slovenian culture had to develop in situations that were not always favourable to Slovenian development and needed to fight for its existence, it has become an important driver of Slovenian historical development, including the space for freedom of expression of creative diversity. In all Slovenian history, culture has been what modern theorists define in this concept. It was an integrated, independent force in society, creative and dynamic, diverse, challenging and critical. The main thing for Slovenian culture is that it develops the Slovenian language, the most important distinguishing sign of Slovenians from the nation, which differs from the other speakers. The use and development of the Slovenian language are presented in the national programme for culture as the first general priority of cultural policy. This is justified both in terms of history and the future of Slovenian, as caring for the national language is the first task of each country. Language care goes beyond just the cultural dimension of this issue, as it extends to a number of other areas, both in the fields of education and science, as well as in the field of the economy and beyond. In any event, however, it is essential that the country pursues a coherent and active language policy that will take account of all segments of the language in all spheres of social life. In my opinion, Slovenia's entry into the EU, when we became a semi-legal member of a community of almost half a billion people, is 25 different countries, and when Slovenian became one of the official and equal languages of a new united Europe, an additional argument in favour of the adoption of this law. At first, I was surprised by the statements made by some important economists and by the many press contributions that have been unilateral in many ways, as they have seen retroactivity in the law. Due to the provisions of the law, according to media contributions, and such an opinion was also produced in public, the largest Slovenian oil company Petrol should be renamed Gorivo. Let me put it this way: I will never trade my seven shares of Petrol for seven shares of Fuel. The established brands and company names have already become part of the language practice and form part of the public use of the Slovenian language. In the Group of Members of the United Social Democrats, we will carefully examine all comments, including those of the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia and other economic operators, and, until the second reading, together with the other drafters of the law, we will be able to prepare supplements to resolve the majority of the dilemmas that occurred in the first reading of the draft law. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Ana Marija Tisovic has the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we are convinced that the law is needed and that it has been the last time that it has come on the parliamentary bench. Now that we are members of Europe, Slovenia has also become one of the official languages in the EU. We Slovenians are proud of our language, which has been preserved and developed throughout the centuries into modern language. Therefore, it is our duty to protect our language, our cultural heritage, and our recognition of the law and to enable it to develop further. Only the constitutional provision on Slovenian as an official language is too general and the provisions of certain sectoral laws are incomplete and imprecise. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the bill. We are also pleased that the legislative proposal goes through the parliamentary procedure with a general debate. We are confident that this will enable us to come up with proposals in the debate that will improve the law and address it. In our Group of Members, we also advocate that Slovenia will be a national language. In addition to Slovenian, the official languages in the Republic of Slovenia are Hungarian and Italian. Many government offices were abolished in the reorganisation of government services. Thus, the Slovenian language office was abolished and its operation was transferred to the Ministry of Culture. This narrowed his operation to one of the field tasks. While Article 29 provides for a government coordinating body, we wonder whether it will be effective enough, both at the principle level and at the operational level. The question, which is likely to be devoted to for some time in the general debate, is a retroactive requirement to change the non-Slovenian names of companies and other legal persons. In this regard, it is necessary to set clear criteria and to take them into account from the date of application of the law forward, and only as a recommendation is permitted for those undertakings which are already registered in the Register of Justice. The issue of Slovenian in education is also raised. This is mainly about lectures at higher- and higher-school institutions. Of course, lectures will also take place in foreign languages, but our students must also receive lectures on these in Slovenian. In today's information and other techniques, this should not be a question. There will certainly be a debate under Article 19 as well. One of the most important factors in disposing of Slovenian is capital logic. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union under the principle of free movement of capital, it will continue to increase and pressure Slovenia's already weak linguistic self-esteem. We need to be prepared for the hour of truth about the possibly unpleasant relationship between the loud declaration of love for motherhood and often the low willingness of individuals and organizations to act, by which the validity of such statements would be widely confirmed without objections and excuses and appropriate material contributions. The New Slovenia Group will support the bill because we believe it is a good basis for the adoption of the law on the public use of Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you. Janez Podobnik has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u63	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The law on the public use of Slovenian deserves and it is right that we formally put it into the procedure with signatures, representatives of all parliamentary groups. We were also active in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. It is true, however, that a first-signed fellow Member, mag, has shown a lot of energy in this regard. Majda Potter. Let it be an introduction to our position a little European. I wrote down the thought of a Portuguese poet, Pesso. So he said, "Our language is our first home." Also, when we discussed in the parliamentary group how we would introduce them to this debate, we discovered the thought in one of the last issues of the New Journal: "The language of which we think and feel about the world and which, science recognizes, we begin to learn in the mother's belly and therefore science is now on the rational edge of our mysterious birth in it, rightly said motherhood, is the greatest and most original speciality and value of each individual and after it of every national and national community as a group of such self-aware persons. It is not enough to preserve and develop Slovenian as a language of profession and conversation, but we must also preserve and spread the space of her artistic word, as the souls of his organic life." End of quote. Slovenian language is the basis of our personal, national and national identity and is the most important part of Slovenian cultural heritage. It is therefore a matter of great responsibility. The Republic of Slovenia is a national state. It is a country of all citizens and citizens and, above all, it is a country of the Slovenian people after the Constitution. The language of the Slovenian people is our mother tongue, Slovenian. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines Slovenian as the official language in Slovenia. In existing legislation, this constitutional provision is taken into account in a number of laws governing public communication. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that the use of Slovenian language in public life is needed systematically, and this is regulated by law. It makes sense for this subject to be reconciled and settled in a single marriage. Its aim is also to draw the attention of the public to the content and form of public communication and thus to the improvement of the cultural level only. As has already been said today, the material for this law has been in the process for almost 8 years. The first draft was prepared by Dr. Janez Dular. The very preparation of such a law is linked to several professions. One of the key arguments for the adoption of the law is that the state will commit itself to actively participate in the development of the Slovenian language with the law. We also wanted to draw attention to the demeaning and sometimes machete-like attitude towards the Slovenian language. During the time of global information linkage and the increasing impact on the everyday use of Slovenian language is so important that we properly ensure the preservation and use of Slovenian language. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we assess that the adoption of the bill represents a step in the right direction. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support the provision of a bill providing for the adoption of a national language policy programme. We estimate that such a document is needed primarily in terms of the assignment of tasks and the monitoring of the situation and the progress made in the implementation of the enabling measures of language policy. At the 32nd regular meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal for a law on the transfer of the tasks of certain government services to the departments, to the ministries. At that time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we stressed that the abolition of the Slovenian language office was permissible only with a clear commitment to regulate the area at legal level. We have also pointed out that this is an area that must not be pushed into the background. With Slovenia's accession to the European Union, we have also entered, among other things, the multilingual community of nations. At the time before accession, it was possible to hear concerns about the preservation of the nation’s identity, especially taking into account our smallness or smallness in comparison with the size and number of most others. We estimate in the Slovenian People's Party that the concerns are superfluous. For we have the scissors and the linen in our hands. It is up to us how we can fit into the European space. Slovenian languages are one of the official languages of the European Union and, as such, are completely equal to the others. Perhaps even more than ever there is an opportunity for Slovenian language to develop and prove itself as a language that is in all respects equivalent to all others. We estimate that our visibility and the place we will meet in the international community will always reflect our internal attitude towards our own elements of identity. Slovenian language with its specific dual is beautiful and we can rightly be proud of it. We think it's time we started acting that way. The parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you. Anton Partljič gets the text for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u65	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr. Government Representative, welcome, dear colleagues and colleagues. These introductory discussions give me some satisfaction, even because I think that this law would not be suitable for any pre-eminent demonstration of muscles, and I think this is not happening, so I also say that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has stood by the law all the time, I was one of those who have been preparing it, with respect for Mrs Ana Tisovic, and I think it is right to point out that the agency and the professional authority of this work was colleague Majda Potat and that this has no other connotations than those I have told in accordance with the truth. I think that Slovenia and Slovenia is a category that is so important that it does not suggest lobbying for any other individual segments of society, because I don't think there are things that are more important than that. I myself will not say a bit unbelievably, but in an uneasy position, because I must say that, in particular in liberal democracy, I cannot act so uniquely with the opinion of liberal democracy, because also within us opinions are distinctly different, which to me, for a party that has a name liberal, seems completely O. K. Everyone who turned to me expressed my sympathy for me who was here and for the Slovenian language, but some told me that they would break the law, that I should not take it personally, or that they would vote against it. This seems legitimate to me, and I think this debate will show. These differences, which are in our parliamentary group, are mainly due to the fact that they are not entirely clear sequences that will come from this law, which someone has warned me about, then of course, is the discussion of those articles that talk about legal persons of private law or companies and more. Nevertheless, I hope that I will break a common consensus among our Members when I tell them some of the principles that I think we have agreed on. For the first time, we need to know that we have already passed many laws where we determine the position of the Slovenian language. Remember the discussion about health care, the knowledge of Slovenian doctors and so on. We have already adopted these laws, voted, and I hope that we will not return to these matters by chance in this discussion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, lastly, we have signed a bill with representatives of all parliamentary parliamentary groups. I believe that we have signed them in the light of the fact that the people who signed this have read the bill and, therefore, I would be surprised, although, of course, on behalf of liberal democracy, I am a co-signatory and, of course, here is where the debate can come, but otherwise, I think that the whole Parliament has somehow gone to law through the parliamentary groups. What do I think are the basic things that are not disputed, and they share us in this marriage? I firmly believe that it would be right to give Slovenians in this debate the advantage of Slovenian language before, say, money. Even though Presheren once wrote, "Kranjc, you're only looking for profits." Even in this case, I think that when we talk about consistency, I hope that we are the only ones who will give priority to Slovenian language over money or capital. I think it would be too much of a retreat, some kind of kneeling in front of other languages, which means, say, maybe some magical, market power in front of our language. I would remind you that the Slovenians in the previous common country did not gain the reputation when we were always knocking in Serbian, if we only met one of them. For example, one of our important representatives, for example, if Kardelj spoke in Rome, had to be translated because he did not speak the language, he always spoke in Serbian or Serbian even though the three official languages were Slovenian, Serbian and Macedonian. We're used to retreating, I call it, kneeling. I think and I hope that in this debate I will not see this moment before kneeling before some other global language that prevails in Europe. Next. I think we will give priority to Slovenian at least at home in front of the other languages of the European Union. It is true that, after all, any member of the European Union speaks in our Parliament in his own language, which is one of the official languages, but not to take care of the translation, or not to use me to try to try a Slovenian place in Europe, it would seem to me that it is inconsistent with the European Constitution. I am very happy when I go to Paris and write Gorenje and the French show me Gorenje Slovenije, they say Goranž, I don't care how they say it, but I don't think the company sells its products any less than those who have any foreign names. I think we agree here that we are also Slovenians against linguistic globalisation. I think we will look in the long term at what will happen to the Slovenian language unless we are aware of the danger of globalisation. I am merely observing, as I have already mentioned in French, how, given the importance of the law or the insignificance of the law of a very large nation, among other things, France has a law on the protection of its language and you yourself, since you were in Paris, you know how hard it is to say English comes through. I have no feeling that French tourism or the French economy would suffer as a result. So I think we agree, at least by being against linguistic globalisation. In a way, however, I think that Members will also like to listen to voters, not just part of the electoral body that is pouring these complaints against foreigners in Slovenian. The language will go its own way, regardless of our marriage. I just think with that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Will do. I have somehow tried to say this on behalf of the Group of Members. In my name, if I get a chance, I'll answer, but then I'll take into account the Levstik River, which you've also seen written in all the schools you've attended -- "Stand, be unforgivable, man of steel, when defending honor is to the nation and to your tongue."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you. Sasha Patch, he has the floor. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u67	Dearly represented, I will have a much easier task than my colleague had before me, because we are united in this law, the law on the public use of Slovenian, in the parliamentary group. At the outset, I must express my full appreciation to my colleague, the first-signed Mrs Potrat, and say that the basic starting point of what she said is basically too little that we are just keeping the language, we should first and foremost develop it. The arguments for the adoption of the law are, according to our assessment, a great deal, of self-sufficiency, of overuse, but above all, of the argument of the future of our country, the Republic of Slovenia. Especially at the time of EU entry, where we have been generously told that Slovenia is also one of the official languages of the EU, but we are afraid that this will only leave some kind of administrative fact or administrative record. I want to say that the development of the preservation and further use of the Slovenian language depends mainly on us, i.e. the Slovenians themselves. Whether we respect our language or not, we will not respect our language. It is not enough that we respect it only within our country, but if we want to do something about it in the international field of politics, we will have to use it everywhere and whenever we perform our official duties and try to do it wherever we do our individual tasks. Because of this and, in particular, the love of the Slovenian language, we will support the proposal of the law in the national party. However, I would like, or in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, to make this law as best as possible. Therefore, allow me to point out in these introductory minutes some of the articles that we estimate in the national party that it would be possible to make minor improvements. I will not touch the other articles, because I already said that we are assessing that the other articles are good, that they represent a guardian and that they are a condition for the further development of the Slovenian language. In Article 3, within the framework of the Group of Members, in order not to be mistaken, I will only talk about those articles which we estimate would make sense to upgrade them in part. In Article 3, we assess that it would be appropriate to lay down or define specific rules. These are the specific rules governing the public use of the Italian or Hungarian language. Here we see the deficiency in Article 11, the condition for access to public funds, not in the observations they made in the Economic Chamber, but in particular in the observation 'public authorities can issue or extend concessions'. We are afraid that such a decree of article 11 would be contrary to the law that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been preparing for several years or decades, this is the umbrella law on concessions. Within the Republic of Slovenia, concessions have the right to grant exclusive municipalities or to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Everything else is a mixed term that we all use too often. Therefore, according to our assessment, there should be a more precise question of concessions, in relation to the language, in Article 11, or stronger. Article 19 sets out a dilemma which was also touched before me by a representative of the United List of Social Democrats. In the National Party, we also highlight this dilemma, especially given that today is the first consideration and that we will have plenty of time to adopt a quality law, we would like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be more specifically defined up to this exposed dilemma in Article 19. Well, and for the conclusion of the listing, under the terms "negative" articles - the emphasis is on "under quotes" - another 21 article, for which we also estimate in the National Party that it is overly loose. If I started by keeping my tongue too small, let me say that it is expected that only this law will achieve all the goals or actually pursue all the goals mentioned above would be unrealistic. According to our assessment, the law is a good foundation, but it represents only one element for the Slovenian language. It is up to us, everyone else, whether politicians or everyone else who lives in this country, to preserve this language for all those who will come after us for many, many years. I sincerely hope that people who are proud to say they are Slovenian will come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, which will be presented by Marko Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of State and all present! Today we have before us the law on the public use of Slovenian, which, in our view, is among those laws that will help to preserve the identity of our people. That's why I think it's necessary, and I'm happy to have the signature of the mags signed. Spending. I am not a purist, but in the face of the uncritical acceptance of everything that appears in our language, I often ask why Trubar built the Slovenian language almost 500 years ago, why Bohorič, Pohlin and Miklosič wrote the Slovenian vocabulary. For example, Prešeren, Cankar and Župančič were able to reach a world-class summit with Slovenian. At this time of globalisation, however, we are so quickly engrossed that we do not even have a basic sense of our own identity and culture, because many times we do not know how to think anymore in Slovenian, let alone have a "feeling" for our mother tongue. With this I want to illustrate how we use English words without need, many times even sentences, as well as the use of 'kao', we don't even know how to say Slovenian, it sounds strange to us 'like', or the use of 'the best of'. Or sometimes in a joke we say, "We write pots, we pronounce writers." It is not that Slovenian would not be able to express itself in all areas of life and profession. Let us just remember the fact that we have translated into Slovenian all the basic world literature, both beauty and literature, which means that Slovenians respect their language and develop it in all areas. It is a law that preserves and protects the express power of Slovenian until it is completely suppressed by the express power of large European or global languages. It is that the law constantly reminds us not to stop using and developing Slovenian at all stages and levels. I also hope that this law will direct the users of the Slovenian language within the professions to a sufficiently self-critical consideration of the possibilities for the Slaving of professional terms. With a few hearings for the language, the knowledge of the profession and the true feeling, we can find for each new word an appropriate Slovenian connoisseur acceptable to speakers. The example of the very well-established famous word is concentrated. Ten years ago, we didn't picture anything under that word, and now there's almost no one who wouldn't know about it. Although I support the proposal of the law as a Member and citizen of Slovenia, I believe that there is something else to think about. For example, monitoring the respect of this law should not only take place in companies, the media, educational institutions, but should explicitly include all public administrations, as the quantity of documents produced in public services is large and also represents our country on forms, invitations, all correspondence at home and abroad. That's why we can't just ignore this segment. Let us begin with each other, as Members of the Slovenian people, by setting the example that they will not have problems with us in the authorities to control the implementation of this law. In our opinion, it would also be necessary to come up with or find the best possible solution to Article 19 of the Law, which is problematic to many. Final thought. How nice it would be if the profession, the Slovenians, were to be more popular among the students and thus more effective. To also contribute to the better functional literacy of Slovenians. The law itself does not regulate the language, but determines its use. That is why we want our linguists to be able to produce a more reliable, more consistent and more principled book-language standard. It would also be nice for Slovenians to have a more extensive lexicographic and dictionary work at this time. We're missing a phraseological term and individual professional dictionaries. After all, it is likely that in the medium term it would not be a mistake to have an institution that would care for the planned celebration of those concepts which, in motherhood, are often assimilated in the context of global communication, even though the existing solution provided for in the law is appropriate for the time being. All of this would be good, but it does not matter if each individual does not use his or her mother tongue, he or she does not live actively in his or her own, professional and cultural fields, and does not develop his or her linguistic potential in all the dimensions that mother tongue offers him. Let's be realistic. The law itself will not directly change matters in order to comply with its provisions, especially with a rather high penalty. If we ourselves do not cancel the current language lability and do not awaken within ourselves the language consciousness that our ancestors have conquered in the Austrian monarchy and various forms of the Yugoslav Federation, then this linguistic suicide will succeed us with or without the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I'll give the word to the Flower of the Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! It was expected and predicted that, when the law was being examined, which was supposed to regulate and protect the Slovenian language and also sanction the offenders, the clarification present in the profession would be transferred in Slovenianism to a political, particularly pre-electionly burdened area. However, the motioners submitted it on the assumption that no one would hope to say a critical word to him at this sensitive time and to prove himself to be already a convicted opponent in the Slovenian language. Even so, they followed a repressive model of language policy regulation, which at the same time stems from the fact and fear that the Slovenian language is threatened with being threatened with travel, perhaps even extinction. Probably real threats, both in the historical context and taking into account the development of science, technology, information sciences, all the way to global globalisation processes, are not as easy to identify and confirm as is the result of the bill, since Slovenia has never been taught by as many foreigners as in recent times and has never been heard in history from the mouth of so many eminent people, officials and foreign statesmen. The analysis of the problem of real threats, unfortunately, has not been done, which is why the measures planned by law are, in my opinion, inadvertent and ineffective. After a thousand years of history, full of assimilation and other pressures, without a country of its own, it is difficult to say in full that, at the moment when Slovenian is a national language, and at the same time one of the official languages of the European Union, the situation is such that it requires repressive and popular measures. In doing so, the applicants have classified a whole range of areas, from labour relations, consumer protection, advertising, company names, education, websites, media, public events, trademarks. All of this is intended to regulate from a linguistic point of view 45 articles of the law, 11 of which are extremely repressive, criminal and restrictive. At least the content of the rest is a great disappointment to me. Why? Because, despite the fact that the unanimity of the Slovenian profession has failed, the proponents have been unable to cooperate with other professions and have taken into account their opinions, warnings and suggestions in the preparation of the law, and this is not good for a law with such content affecting such living matter as language. Because the Slovenian language will not be preserved and protected only by language experts, as it is not in the past, but this is a matter of our general attitude towards language, our awareness and our self-confidence, finding a way, negotiating and methods that should be close to modern processes and especially to the young generation that will use, develop and transfer the Slovenian language. Because there is no law that would prevent or even sanction the spread of everyday "full cool" rumors among young people or until the inability of a broken language SMS messages and conversations by email. Did the profession look for answers to these problems? In this sense, it seems to me that the law is completely unhappy, even harmful and exposed to outdated and surviving concepts. I therefore estimate that we do not need a special and independent law that regulates the status of the Slovenian language on a surface and across the board in all areas that have been recalled by the drafters, but I believe that it is necessary to take care of the language and to establish the requirement to incorporate into individual laws in different areas, and to achieve public dialogue in a flexible, live process, a discussion in which it is involved and is concerned, and to think about it, the entire professional public in all fields, from law, education, information, journalism, advertising, economy and so on. Only in this way will we be able to raise the concern for the linguistic and national identity of all, but not raise resistance, ridicule, disrespect for such a serious topic as the Slovenian language and its continued existence. The most public controversy focused on the question of naming companies. The fact is that Article 19 of the proposal states that the name or company of legal and natural persons is a private law, which is entered in a register or other official record in Slovenian. Also in accordance with Article 20, branches of companies, establishments, shops, inn and other establishments and business premises shall issue an opinion on the conformity of the name, in accordance with Article 21, by the Minister or Minister of Culture. This raises a whole series of dilemmas, questions and uncertainties. The bill interferes with corporate, registrar, market law and intellectual property law, which already regulates a significantly more comprehensive and legally correct company law and other laws in these areas, also in line with EU directives. Not only does the name of the company have a distinctive role, but it suffers from its value and the importance of its involvement in international economic flows. Certain exceptions are therefore allowed, but they should be abolished by deleting Article 20 of the Company Act. Apparently, the registration court, at the time of the expansion and growth of modern boutiques, the hair-fasion salons, cafe bars, the business of expresses and the like, obviously did not take this into account and was not sufficiently precise and linguistically careful. However, this does not mean that radical measures need to change the names of all companies. The second paragraph of Article 36 provides that companies already operating must also comply with the provisions of the law, i.e. in the case of a non-Slovenian name, within two years, meaning a reverse order which is totally unacceptable. Firms that have been building their reputation and name, position market and visibility in international relations for many years will have to give up for decades, despite the fact that the applicants have written in the introduction that the names do not have a major impact on the nature of the language. Therefore, without a reasonable, genuine reason, they would have intervened radically in the legal position of the economic operator, which was legally created at the time of each law regime in force. Nor has anyone considered the financial implications of this provision. Slovenian will be less threatened if they have to change their names Petrol, Mercator, Istria benz, Adriatic, Union, Comet, Inter-Europe, Fructal. In this regard, the so-called unfair retroactivity is also disputed, which means that the legislator would intervene in the legal relations and situations created during the period of its original validity. It is the retroactive application of a provision which must have real and well-founded reasons. However, the applicants say, once again, that these names have no greater impact on the nature of the language. It is also an open question on whose proposal he will give an opinion on the compatibility of the name with the Slovenian Minister of Culture in what procedure. Will a complaint be possible, and what is the link between the Registry and this opinion? What is a name in the Slovenian language anyway? What about fantasy names, names from dead languages and the like? Therefore, the principle of legal certainty and certainty, which we owe as legislators, is not satisfied here. In the context of Article 20, the issue of trade and service brands with a non-Slovenian name remains completely open and vague, as a whole range of hotels, accommodations, guest shops marked with a service mark and not with a company or name and name of a natural person would therefore have to be named in Slovenian. This could, however, affect the rights of the holder of the service mark and lay down the Industrial Property Act and violate international treaties in this area. In short, it is true that the designation of companies and trade marks or service brands, which should be valid back and forth, without a clear definition of what the name is in Slovenian, is something completely non-lifelike at this time and in this space. I also expect from the applicants the answer whether, according to the provisions of Article 24 via cable television, it will be possible to monitor and take over simultaneously and directly foreign-language radio and television programmes if they are not translated into Slovenian. Are we gonna report to CNN and Sky News, and we can only monitor it at synchronization or with a delay of a few hours? And then there's this interesting thing. Will it also have to be called a drink, which is at least a symbol of my youth for me, a drink that opposes as Slovenia's largest and most promoted world drink and is certainly our Cockta, our drink and your youth?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you. Roberto Battelli has the floor for his debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the predecessor for saying some clever things in her approach to this law. Above all, because it facilitates my position as a national interest issuer by definition, although I have helped this country to work, I am a grateful object, despite the hypocrisy of the promotion of Slovenia on the international scene. However, I will not support this bill from the simple fact that the consequences of its implementation are absolutely unpredictable in a negative sense. Above all, although I have been demanding since 1993 that the law on the use of Italian and Hungarian as official languages in addition to Slovenian, of course, be drawn up in national mixed areas, we do not yet have such a law. The drafters of this law also make three cases. French is special, as the whole world knows, but other cases - there could be a lot more - are actually dealing with relations in a country where there are several official languages. Article 3 of this Law is a complete disaster because the rules, as I would say, are not defined, and who knows what rules might arise if such a law were adopted. Let me add that one of these rules, which is most important in fact, and these are the rules arising from Article 4 of the Law on State Administration, where the State does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. These regulations are now pending constitutional review. In short, I cosign everything my colleague said before. For these reasons, I will not support this law. This, of course, does not mean that I have anything against Slovenian, which is probably evident throughout my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law on the public use of Slovenian is, in my opinion, necessary and I hope that it will also be adopted once properly, so that it will not cause harm to economic operators, as some warn today, but will at the same time constitute the construction of Slovenian identity. The explanation of this law states and the fact is that the mother tongue is the first pillar of national identity. If this identity had been built and worked in the last 50 years, then this marriage would certainly not have been necessary. Then the awareness of Slovenia and Slovenian language would be high enough among our people, citizens, among those operators of economic activity, so that all these fears, which are real today, exist to drown the Slovenian language in other languages, or that foreign influences would become so rich that the Slovenian language would become a threat, these fears would be exaggerated. However, there is no relation to building a national identity, national pride, patriotism, and today it is not appropriate. Even some advocates of this law are disgusted and opposed for ideological reasons when other means are needed in other areas. Today the situation is certainly quite different than it was in the past centuries or the millennium when the Slovenian language was preserved in the countryside when it was preserved by the Slovenian farmer. Today, however, Slovenian farmers can no longer guarantee because of the number of pools they need, which would be a guarantee for the future. This social layer has thus decreased and has also been subjected to strong bullying in the past 1960s, so that it will no longer be able to play this role due to changed historical conditions. Nevertheless, it is sad and tragic that this particular layer has been subjected to severe humiliation in the past 60 years. We know that in the early sixties, the authorities of those days launched a profanity that has been preserved to this day, a profanity called "a farmer", as an example of backward thinking. These same ideas are actually launching today that any thinking, say, about patriotic civic education, is equipped with an adjective "prohibited" and so on for the same reasons. The relationship to building an identity, as I mentioned earlier, is still miserable today. Is there anything else that can be said about the misery of the island, for example, what was the state's attitude toward Rudolph Maister this year as we observe his four important Jubilee? The state didn't want to declare Master's Year. With great anguish, she held a national celebration with almost a month of delay on his birthday and a few days before the celebration, despite a speech by the president of the country, RTV withdrew the direct transmission of this celebration. Expressed humiliation of a man who is a classic national hero, without whom today the Slovenian language would probably no longer be spoken on these soils as an official language. I am glad that 14 days before this was the celebration of Kosovo, including the giant of the Slovenian word, which was directly tolerated. But no one can convince me that Master's celebration and Master didn't deserve direct television. Here is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, which remains the commission for these celebrations, and of all other actors in this country, for such a humiliating attitude towards it. And Rudolf Master was also a master of Slovenian words, not like Prešeren, but also from this point of view, from a relation to the Slovenian word to the Slovenian language, this celebration should have a proper relationship and proper respect. I claim that this law is the essence of a rescue, a rescue plant to which some who otherwise do not have a proper attitude towards strengthening the Slovenian identity, although I support this law and I think we will complete it until the final adoption so that these economic operators too will be satisfied. Look, I don't think it's a problem for the Slovenian language to be the lingo or the language from which some people make fun of each other. And it is not a problem nor a youth slang, slang of young people who is normal, who is always present and always will be present, because young people before they mature and from youthful slang stay here and there some happy syntagma used as a metaphor or as an instrument of wordplay. And that's positive. And all of this is not really jargon and not slang, or weakening the Slovenian language, but helping to develop it and to color it. Some things are Slovenianized and become part of the Slovenian language. It is important, once again, to stress this attitude towards Slovenia as such and through it to the Slovenian language. But here I think it's possible to do a lot, something with this law, something with other instruments. See Slomšek then taught the crowd: "The mother tongue be to you light." And I think it's still a valid password, an actual saying that we shouldn't be ashamed of him, no matter who said it. But it is no longer the mother tongue in all areas, in all parts of Slovenia the light or the key that would be imperative to all. I don't agree with my colleague, who saw her in article 24, I don't know what kind of fears. I don't think we're going to put an end to any of the foreign programs that this article is talking about foreign language radios, television programs that are broadcast, in my opinion, through Slovenian frequencies. And here I am for some consistency. Look, years ago, I think it was on the frequencies of a national radio called radio MM zwei. I say today that this was an extended deadline for Germanising influences in Styria and Slovenia, because there was no need for him to broadcast exclusively in foreign language, and at the same time it spreads that there was only such music on that programme that interested young people. And actually there was different music. But let someone answer me why it is not possible on Slovenian frequencies, where it is also broadcast in Slovenian or especially in Slovenian to have the same choice of music. Why only a foreign - language radio can be commercial, which goes in the ear of young people. It was a conscious indoctrination of the young generation. And I think something similar is happening in Primorska. I can't find a frequency where I can listen to Slovenian radio. There are distinctly favored foreign - language speech lines. I don't say those who are minority, all the honor that they have in their constitutional role. But I think that those who should strengthen the Slovenian word to seek foreign language broadcasting and that this awareness of Slovenian identity has sometimes been terribly high. She also peddled through the fact that, in fact, on national television, half the show, even for the younger generation, is greeted with foreign greetings, and those on national television, on national radio. I think that editors should, regardless of what young people like to listen to, alert forecasters and moderators to welcome them in the Slovenian language. And there are also cases of bad conscience in the language field. This is not the same if someone speaks or just enters, as I say, a jargon or sentence appears, this person may have a keen sense of Slovenia and Slovenian identity and Slovenian language, but he does not have the hearing to change the jargon overnight. And another is a lack of consciousness. The lack of consciousness is extremely present. For this reason, I believe that we must also have a legal basis to force those who avoid Slovenian words in the Slovenian language to have an equal language on Slovenian soil today, when Slovenia is in Europe when it is recognised in the European Union. Just because it is the official language of the European Union will not improve our identity in itself, we need proper education, we need a proper relationship and I hope that this law is in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word gets Jerica Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, honourable Members and Members-in-Office, is in love with the people. I am pleased to discuss today here in Parliament on one side or the other. Last night we watched with magnificent feelings in a cold and dark room, so said the "baptistine" of the Slovenian nation, the oldest manuscripts. Slovenia is now an exemplary member of the European Union, lent to us by a foreign museum. The birth certificate for the nation, which is motherly love, milk and first food, as well as the first name, beloved Slovenians, of course gave Primož Trubar with his fellow workers and with his books, which we know have been destroyed and who knows where that book remains and when we will see it. Valvasor's library is in Zagreb, as we know, other valuables are elsewhere, and today we are talking about the first reading of the law on the public use of Slovenian. I think a lot of times, I have to tell you why some are, say, English is the most famous language in the world. What if, at the time when the books burned with us, their home government, the queen and her brother, went to the theater and supported culture and nation? These things are deeper and broader than we are now, of course, able to speak. I think there's a certain character, character and thought of the people in the language. Therefore, today’s decision-making is particularly important. I thank Partlich, what he said, but they're also Levstik, like he said, like you told Tone, the Levstiks said, "Let the dog die." We could talk about the 248-year silence between Trubar and the first Slovenian poetry. It's literate, the earth is healthy, and then the magnificent Presherno, and what happened to his poetry, and we know what happened to Cankar. But this nation has somehow held back. Even during the N.O.B., there was printing, language was extremely well-maintained, books were published, and so on, it was even a theater. All the time I see this policy globally so, the ongoing conflict has been this flood of capitalism, of course, which has completely different views on the small nation and on the conquest of areas for money. I am convinced that this law is good, that today's reflection is serious and that the law is more than a suitable basis for further consideration. That the conflict is in this, of course, I must say this, because this capital, which some are even strong advocates, is not friendly to workers, not to culturers, not to women, not to children and to disabled people, because these people do not walk around the world with the edge of capital, but to work, word, color, voice and thought. I am confident that all these sharpties that are heard here today will somehow soften, that we will find a common language together. I am confident that this will happen and that this law will go into further consideration and that we will also agree with those who have some concerns. This decision is all very, very important to us, and we may not even be aware of how decisive it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you. Master Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u79	I believe this law is necessary. The need for law is, or is, justified by the fact that there are some threats, some danger that the most important identity of the Slovenian people could be lost. Perhaps the harsh word has been lost, but it could have happened that the Slovenian language would have become disabled or something like that. See, in the history of different nations, such tragic things have happened that the language has literally disappeared. And it doesn't have to go looking away from us. Ireland has its own language, so she lost it. It is now within the European Union and has been some kind of reason for it to start looking for an identity, its own identity, as well as for the language. And the language is reintroduced as a basic tool for communication, for identity, for feeling, for feeling, for expressing feelings and more. Of course, it's not just the language, and it's certainly still how we understand how we think, how we use the flag, how we use the cultural heritage and what's left of what the Slovenians are doing. They beat us Slovenians or our ancestors, despised him, accused him, but held on to all these components that make him whole. Our ancestors have kept it.I must say that before us there is an obligation, before every generation, to at least keep it that way and, of course, to develop what has been given to us. Our obligation is to continue the development of the Slovenian language, not only to preserve it. In the past, they certainly had some crucial merit if we start with Trubar, and then others who practiced, including Prešern, and modern people at the end of the 19th century, in the 20th century, such as Slomšak and Maister earlier, as has already been said, Prešeren. Not that they emphasized the Slovenian language, but also in the administrative field, they also practiced what the Slovenians were doing in other segments. There was a wave of danger coming through. Whether it was Germanism or internal weakness, negligence, indulgence, and what is still the case. Earlier, a colleague mentioned some silence for 250 years, but when I was in the Jalno home in Gorenjska, I came to the list of banned books after 1945 and on this list I also found Janez Jalen, Bebra, and a number of other Slovenian artists and wondered what is so blasphemous and anti-revolutional in Bebra, because it is a historical novel that interferes with the genetics of Slovenians in this province of Barje, which is now dry. I don't want to accuse you of anything happening in history, on different sides. But you have to be aware of all these dangers so we don't ever commit them again. But as I am now looking at the situation when we join the European Union, we are not threatened from the outside by someone forcing us, setting us on fire to books, banning us from using Slovenian or other mechanisms, other identities of Slovenian language. Danger threatens from within, from ourselves, probably because of negligence, serviceability to something that, of course, is not necessary. And the second danger is how we serve the capital. Company Act, Consumer Protection Act. In particular, the Consumer Protection Act has shown one hidden trap. Under the principle of openness, acceptability, the article has been infiltrated and it has been laid down that in regions where bilingualism exists, a region where it is not defined, we have municipalities where bilinguality is that producers, entrepreneurs or distributors have to advertise goods in these minority languages as well. Even in those congregations where there is no bilinguality. We have been intruded into an article that is not good, which is unnecessary, which does not say anything to protect the Italian or Hungarian minorities. It dictates to the market segment that it has to do bilingual business. If it is bilingual, then this applies to public services which are compulsory in those places where this is officially established. As a result, we will still have a headache, or a headache, to those who have supported it. We have made it clear that this is not the way to handle things. And if there is any danger, it will be because of such a thing or if we do not speak Slovenian in the European Parliament. No one's forcing us to speak English. No one's forcing us to say "full cool," and I don't know what else, every day and every moment. On our own, our consciousness depends. The Slovenian language is rich, it is very expressively rich. Sometimes we've been told that maybe there are 30, 50 or 25 thousand words in the dictionary, compared to the English word that there are 150 thousand. That's not true. The Slovenian language is rich, if not even more. It was created under certain influences and preserved some originalities that other languages do not have. We know that. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to have an acute sense of this, under any law, under any procedure, and that we will not just remove capital. This is a message and this must be a message. And this proposal to build a law on this basis, so I support it, is an additional tool to preserve Slovenian and Slovenian language and the fullness of Slovenian culture. Our identity in the European Union as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you. Jože Ašič has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Of course, I can join myself to all those who find it good to have this marriage before us. Of course, I also associate with those who have a number of concerns about such a law, which is written as it is before me. This is what I am thinking about, in particular, that part of the debate of colleague Orzmova, which has brought down a whole range of problems that such a law may have written and, if so adopted, has caused. I'm concerned that if such a law were so written, adopted, I'm worried about its implementation. We will explain in good faith what it will be like with legal persons, what it will be like to name business units, legal entities and so on, but it will be decided by bureaucrats. The kind of bureaucrats we have in Slovenia, then we can only imagine how they will interpret certain legal provisions. In fact, it would be very easy for me to have only the first part of the Act, paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 30. I think that the national programme, and if this law provides a basis for the adoption of a national programme on the use of Slovenian, the development of Slovenian, the application of Slovenian, then this national programme can be the basis for ensuring that the objectives of the law are achieved. The law itself is either too narrow or too wide. However, in the 30s, 32 articles, so many areas just to mention how to behave, I think there is too little and then there would be a lot more explaining articles, how to say Slovenian will be used in public use, including the attitude towards foreigners, which are in some way already domesticated. However, the predecessor said that the Slovenian language was rich enough and that it was not necessary for these foreigners to use it, nor in this law. For example, when it comes to the promotion of Slovenian learning, we could write down Slovenian beautifully. When it comes to subsidies, we could also write that in Slovenian. For all of this there are beautiful Slovenian expressions and I would expect even that the law on the public use of Slovenian will also use them. We do know, however, that somehow we are imagining something more than a public presentation or a presentation of something. The subsidy is financial aid. If we use two words instead of one in this law, there will be no harm. Several more words are needed for concessions. The media are a means of public information, but this is what we have written down in this law on public use. So, we have foreign words that we have domesticated, and we all hear them well. However, we have those who are only slightly applied and will be removed by strict linguists and bureaucrats on the basis of this law, metals out, denied registration in registration courts and so on. I will support the law, but I expect that, based on today's debate, it will be thoroughly assigned to the second reading. So that we don't cause billions of damage to those companies, companies that should only replace tables. Not to mention what a trade mark means, which is very difficult to evaluate and there are whole methods and methodologies for the evaluation of trade marks that affect the income and profits of businesses and so on. I'll stay on point. I already mentioned Article 15 and the promotion of learning. I am glad that this law also touches on the knowledge of Slovenians living outside our borders. However, I am convinced that this concern does not belong to an article that speaks about the promotion of Slovenian. Taking care of the knowledge of Slovenians living outside our borders does not belong to the promotional part of this law. It's something else by content and by meaning, but it's nice that it's written. However, I really expect the applicants to listen very carefully to today's debates and that they will also be able to take all those reasonable comments into account when finalising the second reading law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you, Joze Auschwitz. Quiet Run gets the word, and Ivan Mamić gets the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to point out, when we are talking about the drafters of this law, that the formal representatives of the proposer are Members and Members of the eight parliamentary groups of the National Assembly, with regard to the colleague of mags. Majdo Potrat, I must say that she has repeatedly informed us about the drafting of this law in the parliamentary group and that it is difficult to say that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats in the Global, not in each individual solution, has participated in a procedure that has been long and painful, that the drafting of this proposal has taken place and that I therefore fully support the content and necessity of adopting such a law. I stress this for a reason, without wanting to reduce the responsibility, and not the merit of the 8 signatories to this law, but that I would not want to be blamed for any bad decision to be copied for some evil purpose that these signatories would possibly have. Secondly, I stress this for the reason that I think at this point, if this is really about the participation of parliamentary groups, it is difficult for anyone to tell each other that it is a pre-election propaganda, because then we all do it for ourselves. I'd say we're doing it for Slovenian this time. And probably in this sense, it's good, and there's no reason to tell ourselves who's doing it more, who's doing it less, because we've all estimated that it's right to make a special law. After all, as far as I can remember, we have all accepted the College of the President of the National Assembly, those who were present for the first consideration of this law to be included in this meeting. I would like to point out that I see the purpose of this law in the common concern and responsibility of all factors in society and the country for the public use of Slovenian. It is not just about the state and its authorities, it is not just about public institutions and public institutions and businesses, education, culture, it is not just about the media, it is also about this economy and about every individual and its moral responsibility and concern for the use and use and development of the Slovenian language. That is how I understand, and in this I feel that the purpose of this law is certainly useful and useful. Because everything else that is specifically regulated and given certain duties is intended for a particular purpose, not this whole. The question is repeatedly asked whether the concern of all of us for the public use of our Slovenian language is necessary because the language is threatened more or less. I would not like to stress that, because I have never done this, the formal threat to the Slovenian language, on the contrary, I could say that perhaps now in a state of independence under constitutional guarantees and under many of the laws we have, it is formally more enforceable and more protected than it has ever been before. The same is true of the official recognition of the Slovenian language within the European Union. However, I would like to say my opinion that, at the same time, in terms of the responsibility of every individual for the public use of the Slovenian language, I must say that I think he is in some way at risk at the time of globalisation. Not in a formal sense threatened, but threatened in terms of minor importance, which, for practical reasons, to agree, to read, to participate anywhere at home or abroad, or to forget that it is right to try to apply as much Slovenian as possible in these contacts, but not just any other foreign language, most English. And in this part of, birekel, these international communications, which, I think, are mainly among young people who normally want to be involved in global social events, this danger is present. I think that this is also the reason why it is right to protect and consider it worthy of our special attention and also to adopt a special law. It is, therefore, that we all adopt this law in terms of conviction and conscious activity for the public use of the Slovenian language, not as some burden we impose on ourselves in any way. If we accept this in the latter sense it will not be good and then the law will not give its positive effect. I must say, this latter finding applies to me, including to warnings from the economy about the possible consequences of the law. Unfortunately, I understood them in particular in the sense that, apart from the personal interviews we later had, they had more emphasis on the burden that the law imposes on them, not enough and too little on their own responsibility for the use of the Slovenian language. I would like to assure in my name that for sure, and this has been said several times today, there is no one in the National Assembly who would consciously want to cause harm to the economy, whether in communication at home with foreigners or in a competitive sense in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The environment. [[...]] However, we would probably like this economy to have the same concern and responsibility as it tries to be as competitive and cost-effective as possible in the international environment. And I think that our common ground should be one and the other, once again in preparation for the second reading we will carefully review the formulations that may cause misunderstandings and also correct them so that this misunderstanding will be as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ivan Mamić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. Public use. It is up to all of us, as much as it is in our power, that the public use of the Slovenian beautiful language is truly useful and used. And this is a responsibility for us who live in Slovenia, and we must take this as a responsibility. I wouldn't talk about what other people have said before if I were the first in line, I'd be talking for maybe 15 minutes. But I would touch on one thing that has not been mentioned today. I also need to present my language externally, but in this case I mean those Slovenians who live outside of Slovenia, whether they are foreigners or Slovenians around the world. I'm thinking of Venice. They have a newspaper that goes twice a month called Dom. Half of it is written in Italian or Furlan, I don't know, I don't know that much, but half of it is in old Slovenian. Very nice to read, but this paper barely lives. I think he's shut down twice, and then he's been reinstated, and the instigators are paying for it themselves, so they have some Slovenian, I'd say, in their own way. I think that here the state of Slovenia should help these people so that this newspaper can come out at least once a week, and not only with four leaves to have more pages, but I do not expect an answer that costs so much and so much. If it is possible to finance the Maritime Diary, which all Members receive every day on the table, I think it is in a privileged position compared to the House of Venice. And if the Coastal Diary can be financed, if not the other, only to come to the National Assembly so many and so many copies, they already get that kind of money. This poor Dom, I don't know, we get it in the parliamentary group, I don't know how the rest of it is, but it's nothing practical. And through this newspaper we would also present a Slovenian, especially now that Slovenia is already in the EU, there is a greater possibility for the Slovenian language to be transferred to Venice in the form it really is, that is, the official language that we use in Slovenia. Actually, I'd like to stop on this one. Let me just say this, it's nice that you know as many languages as you can, clearly, but those foreigners that you can say in Slovenian are easily getting on my nerves. Why don't we get rid of strangers? Those words, which are international, are still in use and in fact there is no literal translation, we have nothing to fight here, but a stranger, when there were so many speeches about them today, would be a time to do something or not to use them ourselves, but we hear them every day in our sessions. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u86	Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you. Your Honor! I look with great sympathy and respect at the fellow Members who have summarized and signed this bill. But these positive feelings of mine do not apply to the bill itself, says the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian.If it were in my power, I would retort the bill. I would also like them to realize that the repression of the Slovenian economy is, as a result, also a threat to the interests of Slovenia. Without any communication, I would like to point out that it is totally unacceptable to have any interference with the decisions of economic operators, their designation, the creation of product names and services, the designation of slogans and campaigns. Only a strange mix of humility and academic alienation may be the basis for the view that we are, I don't know, an all-powerful god or something, we have the right to impose on economic operators the components of their being and operation. It's nice who wants to do business with a Slovenian company in Finland or Portugal, to get used to what it is to be a chisel, a rope, a pastry. These beloved Slovenian names will be able to perform their task on the local Slovenian market in the course of our intellectual activities. But they will do their job better if the festive profession will step down its academic ivory tower and take better care of the functional literacy of the Slovenians. In foreign markets, we must first establish ourselves through our economic operators, respecting the rules of the game and strengthening competitiveness. At home, though, it is necessary that cute and clear-cut predictors on visual and speech electronic media be drawn more and more in Ljubljana, and more and more reminded of screeching kittens and that in one of the achievements of popular music treasures we hear "welcome to Novo Gorica for pizza". In short, the attacks on the Slovenian language are large and come from different directions. It is likely necessary and possible to do much with the help of kind counseling. I'm close to Dr. Stabej's position, who says, "A law that in any way prescribs the image of a language can be dangerous. Personally, interventions in individual laws can be far more effective than the great language law. Language problems are elsewhere, people should be equipped with language to communicate in other languages." We have entered the European Union, we have adopted the principles of free movement of people and capital. Slovenia is a small international open economy. We must not overlook the fact that in a situation where exports represent 60% of the gross social product, this is a special situation that is different from, say, the American situation in which exports represent only a few percent of the social product, but there they do not even think about being so draconically involved in naming businesses in their premises as the proposal of this law does. The most important consequence of our entry into the European Union is that our companies can only be successful when they are successful in the external market, because of the specificity of the Slovenian market. Adapted communication and an integrated image of companies, an integrated image of products, slogans and campaigns is one of the conditions for success. I'm afraid she's more humiliated than the naive thesis when they say, "Where is the evidence that internationally accepted designation ensures success? " The internationally acceptable designation is not sufficient, but merely the necessary condition for market performance. But inevitably necessary. In addition, the name of the company is a very common brand. This means that much more than just a legal person's name is a recognized concept among consumers in the general public. The construction of the brand takes a very long time, accompanied by extensive investment aimed at creating a market situation, so changing the name of the company means abolishing the brand, which means destroying long-standing investments in the brand. Economically, of course, this would cause enormous damage. With regard to the enforcement of a corporate brand, the scope of these changes is almost impossible to imagine, since trademarks in people’s heads are built on a long-term basis. This bill also discriminates against those Slovenian companies. Petrol, Mercator, Fructal, Autocommerce, Metal, Acroni, Adria Airways, etc., should therefore change their names within two years, regardless of the price, while Interspar, Leclerc, Generals, Volksbank, which have majority foreign associates, could retain their names. Is this really representing Slovenian national interests? I'm afraid not. Of course, we do not find a similar draconian law in any foreign practice. The Economic Chamber of Slovenia, which considers that if this proposal is to be adopted for further consideration, has also given a negative opinion on the above-mentioned issue or the above-mentioned issue, it is necessary to re-examine it in terms of constitutionality and compliance with the rules of the European Union. Personally, I think that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, it would be harmful because the solutions proposed are too restrictive. In my view, such a proposal is unconsistent both in substance and in technical terms and would constitute a grave breach of entrepreneurship freedom and reflect not sufficiently weighed reflection on all the potential consequences of the operation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Gračner's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u89	The law before us is, in fact, to deal with it today is certainly very appropriate, because on one hand there is such external verification of the Slovenian language, then we have also an exhibition of the monuments of Brigitte, and last but not least, we have joined the European Union. Nevertheless, I personally believe that the Slovenian language is very anchored in us, that it is not threatened, that it is so respected and so, I will say, strong and recognized as it is now, has never been in history. Last but not least, if we remember only a few good 10 years ago, in the previous SFRJ Assembly, the Slovenian Members did not speak Slovenian, but in the Serbian language, and today or in a good month, our first MEPs in the European Parliament will speak the official language of the European Community in Slovenian. From this point of view, I believe that the law is more symbolic than very useful. However, the problem with the review of this law has arisen mainly to me in this Article, in Articles 11 and 24, in particular when it comes to the designation of legal persons of private law. If we decide today that this law will go forward with the parliamentary procedure, then in these areas it is certainly necessary to change the solutions set out in these articles. My colleague Blaž had already talked about the problem of trademarks that our companies have created over the decades of their existence. If we just look at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, then we find that about 10 companies are essentially what should be renamed. The brand isn't like that. Those aren't words. This is covered in the company’s balance sheet under the brand as an intangible basic asset and, of course, by changing the name of such a company, for example, the airport should be renamed an airport, Comet or comet, Etol, Intereuropa, Istrabenz, Mercator, Petrol, it would be very difficult for us to get used to this to be Fuel Ljubljana, not to list a number of other problems. This should take into account another problem, even if it were to be said, "These solutions will only apply to newly established companies." It is likely that such a marriage solution will not be right because it is likely that someone will find himself judging a constitutional court. However, we already have some experience with certain solutions. Let me mention here only non-profit rents, when we also set a date, the deadline was set and then there were two categories of these, and the Constitutional Court also rejected this decision. I think there's gonna be problems here. If the companies were to actually be renamed, all these items should also be revalued. This would be one set of financial and accounting problems caused by these companies. In addition, these companies would certainly be more difficult to perform in the common European market. Last but not least, we entered the European Union on May 1st, and we entered the European Union in essence because of this process of globalisation, because of the economic and economic interests our companies have in order to make it easier for them to enter the foreign market, and now we will actually impose a new barrier on them again. Companies certainly did not prepare to change their names at the time of their entry into the European Union. This is what I am talking about, the so-called 19th Article, where it says that the name or company of legal or natural persons who are registered in a court register must be in Slovenian. Then, for example, Article 21 speaks: of the opinion on the conformity of the name. The opinion on the conformity of the name shall be issued by the Minister or Minister responsible for Culture. The Minister responsible for culture certainly does not have to decide on names, such as companies. Every company facing its competitors on the market is also a name or brand carefully chosen and knows exactly what it means. Thus there must be a lack of procedure in this law, at least, which is missing if it is a meaningful solution at all. If we go back to paragraph 11. This refers to the fact that the company which was to harmonise the name could not then receive or should not extend the concessions, nor would it receive financial guarantees with coverage in public funds. We would have caused businesses, on the one hand, to be free to enter the EU, to defend the free movement of capital, to free movement of persons, and now there will be some unnecessary obstacles to the use of these names. If we look at Article 24, the media, foreign radio and television programmes or their parts taken over by publishers registered in the Republic of Slovenia are translated into Slovenian. That's gonna be a bunch of problems again. Like, I don't know, Sky news should be renamed Heavenly News. CNN, the BBC are internationally recognized, I'll say, various radio companies, television programs, and it would be hard to get used to this. They'd come up with a bunch of funny names. I really don't know what on the one hand I support this public use of Slovenian, even though I'm sure it's not at risk. [[..]] Slovenia is as threatened as we will threaten it ourselves. But we haven't threatened her yet. We have maintained, enforced and I believe that such a law will not solve the problem of the use of Slovenian on its own. Slovenia uses every, both economic and cultural society, basically everyone uses this language, and it's too sensitive a thing to be resolved by one law. In my opinion, it is better that every law adopted in the National Assembly should also speak about what should be done with Slovenian, in relation to this area, but not one law which would regulate in some articles the complex problem of the use of the Slovenian language. Because of this, if the law were to be adopted in this first reading, that law or this committee would certainly have a lot of work to do, with huge amendments and solutions. However, the fact is that in such a form of law I will certainly not support the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to a fact under this law that may not have had enough emphasis so far, since in recent debates particular concern for the use of the Slovenian language is highlighted in the sense that it has not been protected or protected to this day. In this regard, I would like to say that the network of laws in Slovenian legislation, which has in some way addressed the use of the Slovenian language correctly or precisely enough, not only because these laws are more than 68, but also because, in recent times, almost every law that has touched on issues of free movement of services and goods has also touched on issues of the use of the Slovenian language, from the national programme for culture, the labour law and the media law, to a number of laws in the field of health or the law that we have recently taken under scrutiny at this point, is a European task for the arrest and extradition of persons. Not to mention sub-laws that are particularly exposed there when conditions of employment are laid down. It is interesting that in many of the laws of the so-called European package, we have resolved the status of the Slovenian language in these circles, which came in our bench sometimes, let's say, in no respectable form, even though it has been functioning for several years by the Government Office for the Slovenian Language. Therefore, it has undoubtedly been very difficult to catch the right relationship between a non-discriminatory approach, especially when it comes to employment, because when it comes to finding employment we know that there is a directive that says that there is no distinction between gender, race and language. At times, however, the excessive protection of the Slovenian language in some way limited life, for example by mentioning the law on higher education, which is being formed and covered in some way by this law. But what is it that I want to stress? Given that there may be a feeling today that we do not care enough about language. This network of protection legislation, which is now present in our legal system, I am afraid that, and here, of course, I am interested in the opinion of the legislative and legal service, could in some way be with the proposals made by this law. The Slovenian language is relatively highly protected in other legislation and in some ways some of the solutions we have here are being duplicated. It's okay, after all, the laws have to be consistent with each other, but there's a difference. Many examples testify to this. Today, a number of times mentioned question of renaming companies, however, let me point out that Article 20 of the Company Act makes it clear that the company must be in the Slovenian language, it makes it clear that the translation of the company into a foreign language can only be used together with the company in the Slovenian language. Of course, it's true, there are exceptions, if it's a dead language, a fantasy name and so on. It is also true that this article does not have the criminal sanctions it has. On the contrary, if I go further, the media law, if I point out that Article 24 of this proposal of the Law clearly proposes certain solutions in the use of the language in the media, but Article 5, says a very high-level article of the Media Act, makes it clear that the publisher established or registered in the Republic of Slovenia must disseminate the programming content in the Slovenian language or must be properly translated in the Slovenian language, except where they are primarily intended for readers, listeners or viewers from another language group, of course with appropriate exceptions when it comes to education and for the language of the national communities. But that law has sanctions, and it's very high, 2 million or at least 2 million dollars if it's broken. This law, which speaks in Article 24 on the media and in fact duplicates in some way the content, does not have this sanction. Of course, paragraph 24, if we are already at it, raises the question of what it means to disseminate those programme content that flows through cable and other communication means and we know them as foreign programmes that we meet on all, not just Slovenian players, because this proposal is intended to be used for restrictive treatment or for compulsory translation, which means that we would have a global solution if we were not actually able to follow these content. I mean, we may have the same material written down twice, but the relationship between systemic and other laws already containing provisions relating to the use of the Slovenian language does not mention transitional provisions, except in one case when it comes to deleting Article 20 of the Company Act. In the event of these collisions, I must mention at least a few other laws, which are likely to be, for example, a consumer protection law, which provides that companies can exceptionally use word links in a foreign language when it comes to words that the consumer can easily understand that they would not be translated into Slovenian. Only the Ministry of Economy, which I do not know how much was involved in the negotiation when this law was drafted, drew attention to the registers of patents, models, brands that are governed by the Industrial Property Act. If the provisions of this bill were to be in force, the Office of Intellectual Property should obtain information on the ownership structure of the applicant or of the holder before entering the data into the register in each procedure, which would be contrary to the applicable legislation, and this would be more than 26 and 26 thousand 300 of the rights in force. There is also a questionable solution where establishments, shops, catering and other entities are named differently, such as the company itself or the name and surname of the natural person. It is an infringement, in this case, of the rights of the holder of the service mark, which is contrary to the Industrial Property Act. That I'm not even talking about radioactive retransmission. But what might be considered in the second proposal, because we will certainly come to a second reading, after all this marriage between the common consensus of the different options, the different signatories of the law are unequivocal, we should be able to think about joint inspection. If now 68 laws that have, perhaps not all, but some duty to monitor the implementation of the law, then the authorities within their inspection services are solving in their own way, but in certain and controversial matters this Ministry of Culture would solve within their inspection control. In short, it would be worth considering unification, because I think there would be different interpretations here, that I am not talking about the abilities that will happen to the Ministry of Culture when there is a need in dispute where the consensus on the name of companies will not be passed on to some kind of court, a language judgment. But these are the solutions that life is likely to take in such a way that they do not put too much pressure on bureaucracy or on attitudes. I must point out that, in view of the research prepared by the Research Section of the National Assembly in reviewing some other solutions in the four countries, I would like to point out that in any of these solutions, we are not confronted with ways of naming companies. Foreign legislation deals closely with minority and other languages and using language in public use and in contact with it. Sweden does not, for example, have provisions that would specifically highlight the condition of knowledge of Swedish. They talk about bilinguality or the so-called functional bilinguality, where translation plus language, home language means some urgent opening up to the world. Foreign legislation is very precise in relations within other minority languages and in public administration and in contact with it, where even special laws exist. What I would like to conclude is just that formal legal regulation of the status of Slovenian is necessary, as linguistic awareness is certainly lacking, as well as rhetorical abilities are increasingly threatened. That's what we are sometimes proof of. But it is one of the ways that, without effective and quality language education on a long journey, can be ineffective. I mean education in a broader sense, and also that awareness, which means that in the mass field of culture, let's say ladies in case, I don't know, duo Platinum, who used English when he represented the Slovenian state, with even a better name, platinum name when he went to his wedding, but he did not represent national Slovenian colors, but something else that we think today is giving up to companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go. Mr. Kremjar? Here you go. [[You don't want to.]] Mrs. Majnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In this law, we today decide between limitations and breadth, while supporting or rejecting the law. Of course, I support all the care and protection of our mother tongue. The same mission of our parliamentarians and parliamentarians of all conscripts is demonstrated by the articles on the use of Slovenian language in the constitution and in over 70 already adopted laws. I'll support the marriage at first reading. But I expect some major corrections in all chapters of the law. I will not talk about the articles that talk about economic operators, because my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about this and I fully agree with them. I would only like to draw attention to traps that are not well-saved but do not bring solutions at all, in chapters that talk about education and the media. I wonder whether the law does not impose too much restrictions on the fact that we already have international high schools and that they have recently introduced new so-called European classes into general schools. Or our students will not be limited if they are no longer able to teach them visiting professors from another language field. I also wonder whether by implementing this law we will not ban quite a few media outlets. For example, article 24 reads so that the Hungarian national community will no longer have its own press if it does not come out in the Slovenian language. In the law, I miss the protection of the Slovenian language from ourselves. Language in front of the tongue. It is true that our language is rich mainly because it has many sentences, but when we talk about the public use of Slovenian language, we talk about the use of the Slovenian book language, its assembly statement, so it is a language that our national Radiotelevision must also use. The cartoons as well as the domestic puppet shows, which are synchronized, are too synchronized in slang, which for the whole area of Slovenia outside Ljubljana would need a translation, subtitles, because the child from my end really doesn't know what the crochet is "beat here, beat there". Therefore, if certain articles are deleted and the other articles are written, I say unequivocally, without the possibility of a different interpretation, the law can also be adopted in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that I am glad that this law has only seen the treatment in the National Assembly, in view of all the peripetions that have accompanied this legal substance over the period since we have our own Slovenian Parliament. At the same time, I would say that I am also extremely happy and I also welcome all those who have signed under this law, and both leaders of the parliamentary groups who have taken the time and also participated in the adoption of this law, while I expected that some of the parties who have the full mouth of the Slovenian people do not have any members here at this time. Morale or judgment about creating each other. I'd say next. The language is about the same as your mother, you love it, you respect it, but you always pay too little attention to it, and it's also nice that some people are like their mother tongues. I must say that we have focused much more on the most urgent existential conditions in the creation of this new country, and that all laws, such as the Law on Home Affairs, the Law on Foreign Affairs, the Law on Territorial Defence, later on the military, and that we are fully clear at the end of this mandate, which is, of course, a thank-you to all Members and Members of this mandate, adopted a national programme for culture and that we are now also dealing with the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. I must say that the law has some trap, that the law has not experienced a public bra, which it is now experiencing or will experience until the second treatment, and that here some, when they discuss them and listen to them, feel like they have read the law very superficially, otherwise they would not say what they are saying here, and that law condemning the collapse of trade marks, for the failure of industry, is eloquently said, irresponsible. Look, who destroyed the brand of the Maribor Car Factory, who destroyed the brand of Primat or other companies? Yes, we're probably a market and we're on the market. If only the Slovenian language, which should be kept as a jewel, were to blame for selling these trademarks, of course it is superfluous. Of course, it is necessary to see that people operating in the market economy, with great anguish, gain their own capital, say that they are fighting hard battles in the market and that, of course, with great obedience, they also need to listen to them in this fight, how to place their interests and the interests of the people for their language in such a marriage proposal. I think we have plenty of time until the second hearing, and now is not the time to spit on the marriage and get it off the agenda. We have enough time to solve this and we have enough time to say to ourselves that it is likely that those provisions, such as those talking about the media, will need to be corrected a little bit and make them live enough so that we can live in this promised Europe. And this law gives me something else. I see this law as a roof law, and I do not expect all the solutions that are knocking on the door right now, but this law also gives us the opportunity to adopt, for our national language, a national programme, as we have done for roads, as we have done for the military, as we have done for culture and for all other things. It seems to me that when this law is given its submarital acts, it will be the only time that this law will come to life properly. However, I think that everyone in the National Assembly should make an effort to carry out whatever functions we perform here in order to bring this law together if we reach consensus by the end of this term under the roof. I warn that we have only a June session, that the committee as a parent has already been convened and that we have only a July session. So if you were to go through a two-phase procedure, you'd have to go through it in June, if it was July, but I think it's almost too late. I would like this law to be found and managed by common forces to reconcile these interests in order to adopt the law, because one truth is whether the law is good or not, that is for everyone to judge. All I know is that what's not is neither good nor bad. I would love to. I will definitely vote for this law. A lot of work has been put in, and let's say, if all political parties have signed it, we will achieve so much consensus that even after we go to the elections, we will say that all the parties have also contributed to the fact that we also have a language at national level regulated by a roof law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Partlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u97	I would first like to thank all those who discussed the bill. Those who were critical, even though I was a little disturbed here, because someone also wanted to make fun of the real law, and also those "stupids" who made it up, but luckily it wasn't much. But these critical remarks also seem very important to me. After all, we rarely talked about Slovenian as much as we do today. I'd actually like to attract my colleague, Maja Shirtz. I think that all the comments she has said are relevant to us, who have drawn up the law, and we will certainly meet with them, as well as to some others. I suggest you just support someone who doesn't have a problem with it, and I hope that's what the majority will be for. After all, we will also get the opinion of our legal service, where it will be discussed and avoided by simplification on both sides. I also admit some inconsistencies, especially for the back and so on. But I'm sure she'll be able to speak on behalf of her colleagues, Majda Potrate, who has always been somehow our "vote speaker". But let me finish, maybe someone will find it unserious, a little literary, not to say "pain." Now we also have a translated book, you must have read it already, although I have heard it before, but I could not literally see that in 1851 Victor Hugo said in the French Assembly, now is the time to establish the United States of Europe. And it's time to introduce a single currency, 1851. Of course everyone laughed at it, with galleries called poet, writer, fool, go home to write and so on. I mean, sometimes it's possible to listen to people like that, in a way, to freaks. Now I'm going to take a risk without every puff to compare myself to anyone, but I'm risking each other's predictions. If not, as it is written, respected all European languages will not be respected in the European Union - if, for example, English is taken over by the sphere of trade, promotion and so on, I tell you that the European Union will fall apart. You laughed, Yugoslavia was forever, and it fell when Bulatovic told us here, "What do the Slovenians want, in 50 years your language will be gone". When Costa Nagy said in New Sad, we'll all speak Yugoslav and when we get the joint sails. When someone thinks that a language agreed on for a variety of communication can also take over the language of identification, he can predict poorly to the European Union. If we let one part of the Slovenian language use another language. It is clear to me that I can neither come to Parliament nor take into the hands of the phone nor get in the car unless I absorb all these foreign words, which at the same time the products bring into the Slovenian language. But in order to offer and invent and conclude for themselves, all our efforts are, of course, ridiculous and unnecessary, if all of John and Mick will give their children the name Jacqueline and Rene, they will open, as in Styria, a bakery that will have "Brot und Semmel" written. Of course, no one can prevent this, but if you think that a ton is some way to tolerate it, because, finally, it is a brand, it seems simple to think that there is another value that we need to keep. I am because there are no privileges, but technical words, I think there was also some criticism with my colleague Cveto, who was in some way the most critical of what I was here. I agree, in the introduction, Slovenia is not threatened this way, I think, we have universities, we have institutes, we have laws, it is not threatened this way. It is threatened that in some companies in Maribor, as much of the engineers are already speaking German and are making German arrangements, German telephones, German letters, foreign alphabets send "mails", and at home watch CNN for a while, which is great and a little talk in Slovenian in your family. It seems to me that we must not let one language, a business language, be something other than our mother tongue. We have a chance to create our own business and market language. And there's something hidden in our marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Perhaps the representative of the candidates would like a word? Members and Members have exhausted. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much for this opportunity to allow me, on behalf of the proponents and motioners of the law, to respond to some of the dilemmas or concerns that have been heard. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have taken the time and read the law, who have been identified by it, even if you do not agree on details or general matters with the law-makers. However, allow me to return to the monuments of Brižinski for a start. There would be no memorials if there was no interest in writing. Let us leave now what reasons were there for whether they were religious or even ideological for anyone, but if we had no interest in spreading Christianity between the Slovenes, there would be no Brižin monuments, and even that text that the bishop was probably saying, "glag after us a rare reputation," we could not read today. Secondly, if there were no Slovenian nobility, i.e. nobility and citizenship on Slovenian national soil, Trubar could not also publish books. What do I want to stress for the initial thesis? There must always be a firm decision in the back, there is always interest in the back. And various interests have been faced here today. We spoke in a different language, or more or less friendly, but I do need this as a starting point for what was also said in the discussion by my colleague Potrča, that every segment of society is also responsible for the fact that Slovenia can live, including the Slovenian economy. If the Slovenian economy felt like an attack on its own and as an attempt to destroy the economy, section 19 of the Slovenian Public Use Act made a poor statement, but at least in the opening statement we summarised section 20 of the Company Act. But how many problems have we faced in the recent amendment of the company law when we wanted to define some things more or less, and it is true. Look, when companies were registered, it was possible to establish that on Mercury the company was also registered with c, only this difference is. Because in registration, many people are interested in the registration court, whether the company appears with the same name or not. How will the question now be resolved whether c in this case is a letter from the Slovenian alphabet or not, but another question. In particular, I thank my colleague, Shirtz, who has pointed out the fundamental problem that we have been dealing with, and this is the relation to sectoral legislation. We had to rethink how to define ourselves in the field of legislation, and lawyers also advised us to leave or remove from the law all those provisions that have already been taken into account in the sectoral legislation, which we have been alerted in particular to the consumer protection law, and also to any other legislation that regulates this in any way. That's all right and all right, but in the field legislation, something can be solved differently, or it can simply be overlooked. Now, the second question is whether the apparent restrictiveness of this law is really greater than what can be read in individual district laws. That's a special question. And isn't it just the fact that Article 24 was attacked here by this law and the articles relating to companies, that's 11, 19, then Article 21, Article 36 and Article 41 - I hope that I've remembered all the articles quoted by the Chamber of Commerce - so these articles have been specifically attacked. And I can see, if you'll excuse me, problems elsewhere. Only colleague Majnikov drew attention to the problem of the learning language, which according to the law, according to the existing legislation in the country of Slovenia, and only the new law on higher education showed a variety of views on what the learning language is and whose exceptions are those - sorry, I did not say exactly what it is, because this is not the case in the proposal of the law, about the quality of the language, the language standard, whether the order does not or does not say anything about the style of the word or what it is, we did not discuss this issue at all, but in what language. And the issue of the use of foreign language in the law on higher education was tried, of course, by me, with the assistance and support of the working group on language policy and language planning, to resolve in a different way than was later adopted by the Committee. Perhaps it is more restrictive for someone, but in our opinion it was the only or firmer way to talk about Slovenian University in the future. And we said that we are not at risk in our language because we have a Slovenian university or Slovenian universities, because you understand that I only use it for plurality in this case. And it would still be possible to talk about these things here, but please, the billmakers did not address the use of the law on a private level, so the issue of slang, slang, slang, where this is not the relationship that we know in the general definition of public use, we did not want to do so and we did not touch it, just as we did not touch the law, that is, the use of language in art. The relationship between private and public and the relationship between freedom of choice and command or prohibition is, however, covered and taken into account in this law, neither does it apply nor prohibits personal definition. This is precisely why so many difficulties have been encountered in drafting Article 19 of the Law, and I hope to claim that there are also 20 articles of the Law. Because if those provisions of Article 20 of the Law on Economic Companies, which speak of a fantasy name and where freedom of designation is guaranteed and not all that does not belong to the sub-definition of a fantasy name in that name, namely, the designation of activity and something else, then such a situation as we are, would not be at all. Let me point out, however, that the first text prepared by Dr. Janez Dular comes from a situation in which we found ourselves at the beginning of the free state of Slovenia when the public moved away because of many foreign names and expected that the law would be able to solve something that I believe is impossible to resolve. That is why I also disputed the original text in this part. However, the law cannot solve this or prevent the publication of the names of foreign companies because no one has the right to prohibit foreign designations. Mr Blaž Kavčič, the law on the public use of Slovenian cannot save what demands an economy that has felt threatened and said, prevent Baumax, rather prevent foreign competition. This marriage can't and won't, I have to say, solve it this way. There are, of course, conflicts of interest when a community sets economic interests at the beginning of its creation. However, in the interests of economic interests, the European Union has also slowly set cultural interests and put itself in line to defend cultural diversity and multilingualism. And the only item - at least that's what they call me - which is not expected to be reduced in the future is the heading for translation in the European Union. They are specific programmes to promote translation. By saying, however, that if we do not find provisions in foreign language laws such as ours, the reason for what I was saying is that the specifics of the situation are any, such that it does not tolerate automatic transmission of some from other experiences into a new or specific language environment. Sweden, which is known for its very liberal attitude towards the use of language, faces the problem of losing Swedish as a language in certain areas of the professional language because it has been completely uprooted and replaced by English. I would not like to experience a situation where, in fact, by law and with special incentives, we should revive the dead language into use. I think it is much more reasonable to make sure that the language lives, has opportunities for use, develops, and does not need to be revived with artificial incentives. How much of these repressive provisions are now, I do not think the number itself has much to say about the attitude of the applicants and their general desire. But it is true that we would be wronged by the one who would acknowledge the Puritanism that would ascribe imprisonment to us in an ivory tower. However, I think that language lawmakers must first and foremost take into account the knowledge of the language profession. And here I think that we have made sure that we had with us language experts who helped us solve things, that at the first stage of the Dular Act one part of the profession that looked at the problems a little differently, and then in the second part we added that part of the profession that helped us see the problems sociolinguistically. And yet here I should say that the interpretation of a respected colleague is Dr. Mark Stabe, who said we couldn't. [[Just a moment to be among these lists]] That a law that prescribes the image of a language is unacceptable. That of course Marko Stabej here, I hope to say, thought of the image of the language, is called the language standard. Some people read the law on the public use of Slovenian just because we did not prescribe the language standard. But whoever read the explanations also saw that in explanation we named the institutions in Slovenia responsible for designing or recording language standards. The first to codify the language standard is definitely the school use and is a whole educational chain with the highest institutions such as the Fran Ramovš Institute for Slovenian Language, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, and, last but not least, the Centre for Foreign Language, which performs an extremely important task. I regret that Member Battelli has understood the provision of Article 3 of the Law as insufficient. Let me say that some feel that there is no need for a provision in the law on the use of Slovenian on both minority languages or on both languages of the national communities. We have taken it from the Constitution and understood that the use of the languages of the national communities, as set out in some of the legal provisions specific to the education of national communities, and then for specific provisions in the law on public administration, in health care and other matters, is a general provision which, however, points to the attention of the proposers of this law, that we understand that in addition to those who have the Slovenian mother tongue, there are also two indigenous national communities which have two other languages in their mother tongues. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of the applicants. I would just like to ensure, on behalf of everyone, that everything that has been heard today will be read carefully, met and, before the treatment on the home labour body, we will try to get as close as possible to the consensus of the various interests that have been heard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I would also like to invite a representative of the government, Mr Baskovic. But since there's still time, then we'll do another round, but then I'll ask you, then. Mr. Baskovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Madam Vice-President! I will allow myself, from a brief opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to quote three sentences first on the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian, and then to make two statements and one proposal. First quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian is a suitable basis for further consideration in the National Assembly." Second quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that the law on the public use of Slovenian should mean in particular a regulatory framework and a basis for measures to promote the development and use of Slovenian, and to the extent necessary measures to protect the public use of Slovenian in Slovenia and in international performance of entities from Slovenia." Third quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that in finalizing the text of the law it is necessary to find the most appropriate professional solutions and co-existence of conflicting interests, in particular in matters of economic and other public affairs, the learning language in education and in matters relating to the European principles of free movement of persons of capital, goods and services." First statement: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the working groups of the respected National Assembly, will participate in the drafting of amendments with which these conflicting interests will be settled in general satisfaction so that the law can be adopted as soon as possible." Another statement: "The identity of the community of people and the social cohesion of the community of people, that is, those two, which in general causes a multitude of individuals with their families to live in a wider community and find meaning, security and, in fact, the environment for their normal human activities", I add to the applause [[Whenever in the world such communities collapse, it causes more accidents for people than luck.]] . "In history, even the latest, it depends primarily on two factors, a successful economy and a creative culture. A successful economy is the foundation and creative culture of content. Without these two, history has shown that there is a successful community. The economy is successful, when you read about our, innovative, entrepreneurial, capable and therefore also competitive. At the same time, to a large extent, domestically. Otherwise, it may also be the subject of the destruction of another fundamental component of the community as human beings. Culture makes sense when it is creative, open and accessible to everything, such a nation." From this out, I would draw a small counselor, maybe the word is too heavy, draw it back, think, the economy deserves full support in its actions and actions in every way, every aspect of it, because we live from it, but the economists next. When faced with difficult developmental, entrepreneurial and other problems, and this is constantly happening in the economy, because it is a living thing facing others like us in the world, not to blame for these problems, especially the language. Other problems are more serious and important when they are resolved, you will see that a productive co-existence of the economy, culture and life of the community can be ensured. Finally, a little suggestion. I am sure, on behalf of the proposaler, I express my conviction that your well-respected assembly will today vote in favour of this bill as a suitable basis, and that it will be added to all the necessary critical points tomorrow, so that the law will be fully acceptable to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Therefore, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please raise your hands. I hope I didn't let anyone go, so I'll read it in order. Mrs Črnugelj, Mr Bernik, Mr Battelli, Mr Kontić, Mr Kavčič, Mr Sok, Mrs Širca. Everybody, five minutes each. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Nigga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The language is alive, lively, jumped, ours has survived to this day. And today we have this opportunity because we have preserved it through history in various ways, with various sufferings and with various problems. Today we are considering one law, which is trying to regulate only one segment, but it regulates Slovenian in public use. It is clear and understandable to me that one of the most powerful groups, that is, the Chamber of Commerce, has responded with such forcefulness. This is one of the strong groups that is organized, which has a large body or body that operates in one way or another. There are a lot of other entities in this spectrum that certainly have something to say about it, but given that they are not so well organized, they have not had the opportunity or will probably have been advertised through the media in this period until the next reading, but so far so much has been said. I just wanted to say to you two that Mrs Shirca has made it very clear how and in what way sectoral legislation regulates all these matters. A lot of this is what we Members have adopted here from sectoral legislation. We have even protected the law of national communities, that is to say a minority. It is said that we were so focused and had so much will and interest. This is just a step to protect our language in public use. But there's still a lot of interest and desire in this spectrum that can't be advertised in one way or another because they don't have a chance. On this occasion, I would very much like to say that permanence or permanence is very important if we are constantly able to work, co-operate at all levels, from the learning process in pre-school institutions and institutions, development and protection institutions, primary schools, secondary and higher schools, if we can do this in one way to preserve, stimulate and continuously work in order to strengthen the issue that language is also in fact in the role and all the other arbitrators that are important in this segment to actively participate. Of course, the country can make a huge contribution. It contributes by already forming a vast network of public libraries, that these public libraries are, of course, regularly financed and that they have sufficient resources to purchase all the necessary literature. Not only literature, which is teaching literature, but also the rest of the literature necessary to preserve and raise the reading culture of everyone in Slovenia. By how much money the state will spend on it, it will also show how much the Tatyrian has the will and desire to maintain in being as alive as he is. And last but not least, in this spectrum of different interests was certainly yesterday's event when we had the opportunity to see the opening of a beautiful exhibition of the Brižinski Monuments and one way of marking the director of the National and University Library, when he said in a very visual way how the National and University Library had been housed in very narrow spaces for many years to spank the seams. The country and all of us will show how ready we are and how to maintain a complete heritage even when we have the opportunity to discuss the guarantee law for the construction of the National and University Library. Because, as you know, in four years in this House we have not been able to complete the existing law. Of course, we are also Members of Parliament, Parliament and Parliament who can influence this. Without the government, without all the institutions, offices and agencies working on it, it's hard for us to apply everything we accept here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I listened with interest to this discussion, so things that were very harsh against this proposal and others that were relatively good and somehow fuelled optimism about our future. In fact, language and territory are two elements, as we know from our history, through which many wanted to come to our territory and, of course, began with language. Fortunately, this has not happened, and now we have a question whether this will happen now in the future. We hope not if this law, as proposed, is well reviewed, reviewed and finally adopted. Some of the things that have been said against the law, such as that some articles are repressive, have been quite surprising to me, because for every law I could almost say is repressive, so is the law governing the diet that regulates the traffic that regulates this and that. And why not be a bit repressive, although I challenge this word in this law, even in this proposal, because this proposal is essential for our statehood, for our future. The damage that this law could do to companies or Slovenian economies was also mentioned. You know what, I'm coming from the economy, actually, and I'm going to say this. If there was an economic chamber or any other society that spoke so vehemently about the damage that will be done to them, I will say that the economy has enough brains and people who know how to solve these old ones, and in fact, we must also take account of their interest, but this interest is not primitive. From the very beginning, they could have known this would happen, and they should have been prepared for it. Now the state can't solve all these things because it's their responsibility. In addition, I would say that there is another, let's say the financial effect of this proposal, or, I will not say a proposal, but in opposition to this proposal. If we abandon the protection of our language, then we can forget about the Slovenians around the world, we can forget about the Slovenians in the place and even the entire Slovenian space. Clearly, it would be financially beneficial for the country, for a government that has financial problems, because it could stop supporting our relatives in Primorsk, Koroška and also in Hungary and also all Slovenians around the world. As a former expatriate for many years, I know how much trouble we have tried to keep the Slovenian language and people still support it and struggle to teach their children Slovenian, so there must be some kind of protection. Finally, let me say that a good move to preserve Slovenian language would also be a way of learning Slovenian in our schools, because when we look at it somehow, I would say, not hate, but resistance, many students learn Slovenian language because it is grammar itself and so on and so forth. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the necessary reform that would benefit the Slovenian language. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Of course, I have no doubt about Mrs Potrat's good faith, and Mrs Potrat also knows that this is not just a courteous phrase and I also have nothing against Slovenian and any measures to ensure that the Slovenian language develops freely. However, I note the following fact that Article 11 of the Constitution states: In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian. That is why it is no matter what any language expert may think, and that is probably Mrs Pogorelcheva, it is not a concession to talk about some rules that should then be applied to these two languages. Only the same rules can be applied because these two languages are also official in those areas. In the previous Constitution, and on this basis the basic constitutional charter on the independence of the Republic of Slovenia was a provision whereby the languages were equal in those areas. This equality has then been legally changed in Article 11 in this way. This equality or parallelity of the officialness of these languages has now been changed as regards the state administration, to the following: someone must be a member and use this language in order to enable the State to communicate with it in this language as well. Article 11 of the Constitution does not refer to any condition. Nobility and citizenship of Slovenia in Koper, Isola and Piran were never, it is a historical fact. And in Cyprus, Isolah and Pirano, it was always at home, first Romance and so on and then Italian from time to time, from time to time. In 2002 in Cyprus, Isola and Pirano, 1840 people hoped to say that they belonged to Italian nationality. Ever since there was a time, there haven't been so many people in these three places that would say, I'm just what I am, never. It is now incorrect, in my opinion, to make one law on the Slovenian language alone from a legal point of view, if the law on the same official languages does not run in parallel for those areas which are Italian for the Coast and Hungarian for Prekmurje, that is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that this law must not fall into the constitutional rights of both national minorities, nor can it, because it would mean a constitutionally disputed act and it had no purpose. I am confident that the law before adoption will remove the doubts raised by esteemed colleague Battelli. As in history, we will always need to give special attention to our language and its use in the future. It is interesting to find one of my acquaintances who learns a foreign language and says, "It is difficult to learn a foreign language because I am so emotionally attached to my own language." So when we talk about language, emotions are always there. In view of the debate I have heard today, I find that marriage is necessary. I am confident of the well-intentionedness of the applicants, including my colleague mag. Majdo Potrat. I am aware of her concern and sensitivity for Slovenian language. I also heard allegations of economic damage caused by this law. We all know how hard it is to win or make a good brand. These brands were made by people, successful individuals and groups. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in the future. But I fear that there will be fewer and fewer people who will think and speak Slovenian. It will therefore be necessary to seek compromise solutions until the second reading or adoption of this law. I am sure that this is not about weighing between the performance of companies on the one hand and our language on the other. These two matters are completely linked and go hand in hand. The law is necessary. It is necessary to arrange and determine the use of Slovenian in public life in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kavčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you. Systematic efforts for the continuation and development of the Slovenian language are a common denominator of what probably connects us in our perspectives and in this discussion, from here on views may be somewhat different. It is a dilemma whether to resolve this issue by means of one large law or to resolve it by means of systematic interference with regional laws. In my own discussion with arguments, I became more heated for this second direction. And the discussion also strengthened me on the belief that there was a prelude, despite the undisputed well-intentionedness and positiveness of the carriers of the present law, some arrogance in the dictatorship itself, but also the spirit of this law, as proposed by Article 17, is unconstant. In one paragraph the term'must have' is used in the first paragraph, in the Slovenian language 'boto' is said to be a dictatorship of the existing state, although the only logical thing would be'must be', because there may be no sanctions in real life and therefore there are certain sanctions. We also agree that efforts to further develop and the existence of the Slovenian language will be painful. Something may hurt our own Members if we want to take a closer look at how we use the denied parent in our performances, how we use the dual, how we refer to the first person of the crowd, how we use the congregation language at all, and how we distinguish, say, what the Slovenian language separates, cause and effect. I don't think anyone who systematically listened to our discussions could have been oversatisfied. Thus, the Members themselves will have to make certain efforts to support the Slovenian language. What seems important is that we should agree that we should not in any way interfere with the international application of Slovenian companies, in any way. This is the kind of thing that takes a lot, maybe a debate. I couldn't have experienced cases like TAM and Primat very well. A lot of businesses have collapsed, a lot of businesses are going to fail. In my discussion, I highlighted the difference between the necessary and sufficient conditions. Of course, I would agree that if we gave one failing company the name "Microsoft" so that it would not have saved him otherwise from poor business development. But the necessary condition is that if someone, for example, wants to perform on the Italian market, it will probably not be possible to call chiseling, but not until further notice. In Slovenia, however, we have companies that have, say, succeeded in closing down the technique or after domestic "stacks", have become world players and, of course, have to adapt to the rules of the game on the world market in their business. And we need to understand and support this in Parliament. It must not be jeopardised if someone writes Frülich or can be a sole entrepreneur in Slovenia or not, because he has a foreign name and must not be asked whether or not Mr Frülich can register his own establishment in Slovenia. If I ask you now, you'll say yes, of course. However, I would not like to contribute to an unscrupulous law that has not given sufficient thought to such possible consequences. Therefore, of course, under two, whether the existing proposal for a law has been supported and thoroughly added, in my own discussion, I am more concerned with the possibility that, due to the principle of wrong approaches, arrogance and lack of respect for the interests of the economy as the basis of our society, those good solutions that are, taken and applied in this law are, in another, more creative way. Of course, it is possible to follow the path that many have supported, that this law is supported at this stage and that in matters where we have generally agreed, but not purely, try to upgrade. I myself will still remain in position and would like a new proposal for this law, or a better project approach, which would protect the interests of the Slovenian language qualitatively in the field laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! This law that we have before us is, of course, short enough and clear enough that anyone who has been here for more than three hours following this debate can read it thoroughly and review it. As I understand it, this law pursues two objectives. One is the public use of Slovenian and the other is how to preserve Slovenian. As for the first objective, the public use of Slovenian, of course, the law can prescribe, I don't know, what some of you, especially from LDS, talked about how companies will be called, what must be called in Slovenian language and so on, although I think that these laws would be difficult to achieve. In fact, the colleague Partljič quoted Prešern as saying to his cousins in the elegy: "Kranjc, you are only looking for profits," in the second verse then Prešeren wrote more than 150 years ago "what is not foreign, you despise, old jokes lose track, for the countries honor you ice," etc. It is said that at the time they met or met that the Slovenian nation did not protect enough what was Slovenian, but rather flirted with what was foreign. Of course, these were very different times, and it seems to me that today it would be difficult for us to put into practice in this globalised world a principle that is based on this law that all companies must be renamed Slovenian. In fact, this would be a major problem and I think that even in this way, at least in the case at hand, the applicants were not meant to regulate. So for the future and, of course, for the future, some positive approach can also change things in this area. Of course, some other matters, such as the use of language in education, then in public spaces, declaration of products and the like, are already so regulated in other languages and it is right to remain and that these matters are also properly expressed in Slovenian. So what seems even more important to me in this law is, of course, somehow through this law, expressed concern for the preservation of the Slovenian language. Here, of course, I feel that this will not be possible with the law itself. Well, whoever's imagining it probably doesn't have all the dimensions of this phenomenon in mind. It seems to me that the language is as alive as a nation and here in this area Slovenia will have to be aware of these negative demographic policies and do something towards the greater birthrate of the Slovenian people. For there will be more Slovenian people and more Slovenian languages. And that certainly applies to every nation. In fact, if we make up for this deficiency in national growth with immigrants, they will bring you their language, their cultural habits. And if it really is a wish, then someone would say to this chapter that talks about active language policy and about the national programme, how to speed up - for the promotion earlier that it is a foreigner, that it is not a Slovenian word - let's say the promotion of the Slovenian language, how to arrange for the promotion of the Slovenian language through funding mechanisms. So, through money support. And this is actually the biggest problem that we face as a nation, how to spread this Slovenian language among our foreigners, among the citizens of the Slovenian family. Last time I listened on the fire station radio was the last show of the Voice of America. It's just that this show went off overnight, and after 50 years, it went out. For 50 years, Slovenians could listen to this show and suddenly it is gone. Is it possible to advertise even more Slovenian than the voice of America, which is practically heard around the world? But because there's no funding [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - just to finish the thought - and obviously also to the Slovenian state, to the Slovenian government and probably to this Parliament for this very little care, this voice of America has been lifted for this reason. [[...]] It was somehow my fault that after 50 years, there was the last show on the show and that this journalist, Alenka Adamič Richardson, had actually said goodbye, and from now on we will not hear from each other. Therefore, if we want to actually protect Slovenian, then, respectable, it will be necessary, in particular, to provide the solution provided by this law, this is a national programme for Slovenian, to be more thoroughly processed and, above all, to allocate adequate money for this area, so that we can actually succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u115	A similar question - if I continue what I have actually started before - how to solve matter when it intertwines in other laws has also arisen in the question of Roma issues. We have a number of solutions within Roma issues, but at the same time they never create a single law that would take all of these into account. And one who sums up might even commit violence or create disagreements between some and others. Therefore, I think that the problem of this law is the differentiation of the different answers in other laws and then perhaps even the exacerbation that has taken place in some of the issues of this law: to date we did not need subtitles in the opera houses even when the texts were transmitted in Latin or, usually, in Italian. The implementation of this law will provide for this. Journalist conferences also have a lot of life in them sometimes and can be answered by melodies or melodies, especially by foreign representatives or those who express themselves in foreign languages in the Slovenian space and communicate in their own language with translations, now the law is only the solution that only journalists can receive translations and so on. I mean, some of these life's dilemmas are going to trigger the law, but apparently these paths can be saved in a different treatment. But what is fundamental, but the distinction will remain, should remain as fragilely as they are. And for that distinction, which, according to my behaviour, gives priority to the free movement of services that gives priority and privileged position to those enterprises where foreigners are majority-owned, that is undoubtedly the case. I would remind myself of a law that was also rejected in our circles so many times, which was prepared years ago by former Minister Dular, who did not address this issue so restrictively and so bindingly and firmly. I am only talking about this because in the answers today, it has been often felt quite obvious that it is a matter of defending two interests. I see that this is about defending only one interest, and I would not allow or would like to attribute any more meaning than was expressed here today when it was actually an attempt to clear up not only life's but some logical answers. The proposal signed by Minister Dular at the time was not so complicated when we were talking about naming legal persons of private law, but we were not satisfied with it at the time and even did not require this retro-garde or changing solutions back because it gave some flexible options. For example, yes, he set up a category such as this law and he was right when he demanded that the name or company of legal persons of private law should be in the Slovenian language and the same was true for natural persons - the same as that proposal, but he gave a few breathing options. For example, one of the conditions as an exception, which is not supposed to happen, was that these companies represent a protected trademark or service mark which is publicly present on the Slovenian market for at least 20 years prior to the entry into force of this law. This is one of them, then there are others, if it is not possible to find an appropriate translation into Slovenian or to make appropriate new Slovenian words and if it is quotations from a dead language and so on and so on. But I think it will be necessary to look for ways forward in this direction, to look for more indents, more possibilities for exceptions where so-called common interests - I underline, common interests - could not be found as those who "cross" the Slovenian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate, Your Honor. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote at 6.40 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. So I interrupt this agenda item. At 4:15 p.m., we will move on to the 6th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses. I thank the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for his cooperation. So we continue at 4:15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u117	We're moving to six. Period of the day - First of all, this is a proposal for a law on incentives in foreign direct investment and internationalisation of enterprises. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, with first-signed John Janša, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I welcome the representative of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Mrs Renato Vitez and Matej Kovac, Director of the Slovenian Agency for Economic Promotion of Slovenia and Foreign Investment. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. This will be Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises - its purpose is to establish an internationally comparable institutional basis for the effective promotion of foreign direct investment in Slovenia and the promotion of the internationalisation of Slovenian companies. The law will make Slovenia more recognizable than locations for foreign direct investment. It is essential that the legal regime to promote foreign direct investment is a signal for the country's pro-active policy in this area. The regulation provided for by the law, including exports and external foreign direct investment, is said to promote internationalisation, will enable the business environment to improve for Slovenian companies, accelerate their globalisation and thus increase their international competitiveness. The reasons for the adoption of the law are as follows. The Slovenian Economic Development Strategy 2001-2006 envisages the implementation of an active policy, the acquisition of foreign direct investment and the promotion of business internationalisation. The very important fact to be taken into account is that Slovenia, by entering the European Union, has taken over the external trade regime of the European Union by entering the system of European exchange rates and later taking over the euro, we will also lose the independent implementation of monetary policy and in this regard become even more important in the active implementation of development policies. In this context, an active policy to promote foreign direct investment and internationalisation of business is crucial. As I have already mentioned, this is a positive signal to potential foreign investors on the existence of a national consensus to attract foreign investment and in order to implement an active policy in this area. The legal regulation of individual development policies is somehow also a Slovenian standard. Finally, the adoption of legislation during this legislative period will allow for better implementation of development policies from areas governed by the law in the financial year 2005. The needs of the economy were already perceived by the Committee on the Economy at its regular meeting on 11 June 2003 in relation to this law, where it adopted a decision or ordered the Government to prepare as soon as possible a regulatory framework for the functioning of institutions to promote the internationalisation of enterprises and cross-border investment. In this regard, it was stated that the arrangements of the comparable EU Member States and the characteristics of the Slovenian business and institutional environment should be taken into account. The law makes sense to summarise some of the key features used or taken into account by other EU countries. The consequences that we consider to be essential or if the law is not adopted, we believe, above all, that in some way, the legal basis for giving incentives to larger investment projects needs to be developed. So far, however, it has been necessary to assess in some way the strategic interest of individual foreign investors. What is important is that in the event of non-admission, there would also be a delay in the development of the appropriate infrastructure to promote Slovenian exports and exit investments. Thus, the essence of the law is that, on the one hand, it seeks to establish an institutional framework to promote those foreign direct investment that is in our strategic interest. This is "Greenfield Investment", it is a genuine investment from the beginning, and on the other hand, to enable an appropriate institutional framework to promote the internationalisation of Slovenian businesses in terms of globalisation. International comparisons in the preparation of the law took into account the recommendations of the studies prepared for Slovenia in 1998 and 2000. As an example, well-functioning and effective institutional solutions were taken into account for foreign direct investment in the Czech Republic, Ireland, Austria, Hungary, Sweden, Slovakia and for the internationalisation of the Czech Republic, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Great Britain and Hungary. As regards the financial implications, I would like to point out that in the 2004 and 2005 financial years, the planned budget appropriations are sufficient for the implementation of the law on the budget lines of the Ministry of Economy or the Agency for Economic Promotion and Foreign Investment and the Economic Representations. The law does not lay down any additional financial obligations of the State, but allows budgetary resources to be allocated to promote foreign direct investment and to internationalise business operations, which is in line with development priorities. As I have mentioned, and somehow this seems very essential to me - this law is consistent with the established economic development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that Slovenia has somehow reached a point where faster technological development and a long-term technology restructuring strategy require an institutional framework to promote such investments on the one hand and on the other hand that, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises need to be helped to break into foreign markets. We therefore consider that the law is a very appropriate framework for this area and I hope and count on your support here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It will be followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Branko Kelemina will get the first word for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Our Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not least oppose the proposed proposal, but it will not be supported by what kind of euphoria - this bill, i.e. the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses. Otherwise, we view this proposal as an attempt to move forward in this area, an attempt by the government, a ruling option to make a move at least a little in this area in order to ensure better operating conditions for our companies abroad, or to create conditions for their performance, may also be encouraged, both by promoting foreign direct investment and by internationalising our companies. However, if we just identify all of these explanations that are correct, fair, fair - at least this is how we assess them, at least once we can praise them, this is what happens when we find out who gave the idea at all for the creation of this proposal, we find that this is supposed to be an economic committee. This influence certainly did not come from itself, but it did come from behind, from some interest groups, interests from outside, which would like to ensure certain ratings, certain co-financing and so on through this law. That's all right. In short, those who already perform certain functions in this area do well to be helped a little bit more, but you can see this connection, don't worry, we have noticed it. Well, all of these findings, the proposaler's recognition of how badly we've had these things handled so far, are really worth our attention, and also that the proposaler himself has admitted that things have not been well arranged so far. This is a beautiful beauty and it would certainly be nice to see this happening in all other areas, because - at least it is said - it is never too late, although it can be very late, but it is never too late for any thing to settle better. Why we have not so far had these things more regulated, as do other countries and so on, these comparisons, which are given, are very controlled and testify that some of the States, including the members of the 15th and the new Member States, have much better arrangements than we have. [[..]] Why this was happening is, of course, another question. Surely there was no need, for in the domestic space, in the Slovenian economic space, there was room enough for all the machinations that took place with ownership, etc., and there was no need and no time, and then also finally no financial resources to target the external market or attract other investments and thus, of course, to increase significantly, as you call it, the well-being of the nation. In short, our assessment is that there was no need, because there was enough room at the home stage for all those who wanted to market or take advantage of this restructuring and, of course, took advantage of it. Now you also state, for example, that we did not have certain resources at our disposal, that we did not have enough human resources at our disposal. I, too, would strongly oppose this or our Group of Members. We think that when there is certainly enough in all areas, it was simply not a wish for these things to be arranged differently. You are also talking about the lack of financial resources or the lack of sufficient resources. You can't make excuses here either, you've had in your hands all the budgets of all four, eight, twelve years, if you want; so you could also spend more money for these purposes if you want to encourage these things. Then you also state that we did not have adequate infrastructure abroad. Why we didn't have it, and you can't blame it now - I hope you don't throw it at the opposition, which, of course, you like to do at every moment, and that it's all the fault of the opposition. I don't think you can talk about this here at any of these resources. It was all in your step. Why didn't you do it, you'll have to explain yourself. However, the effects are obvious.If we were to engage in these areas, we would certainly be able to achieve significantly better success, visible success in this area, and so these achievements are not good. You also point out that in the last two, three years these things have changed substantially, etc. - Well, thank God, at least something goes with some trends, positive, forward. I am not surprised that we do not have adequate infrastructure abroad, because our country, in particular our foreign policy, linked, of course, to internal policy, etc., did not deal with these issues because there was no need. We prefer to deal with some high policy, banquets, etc. In other countries, rather than dealing with the economy and that our diplomacy would in fact be trained by experts, economic representations, etc. and that Slovenia abroad would be recognizable from this point of view, as well as some other countries are. I have talked about this many times, even in the National Assembly and on various committees, commissions. If we were to be recognized in this area, in economic representations, in providing conditions, one, another, entry, exit in countries where we have diplomatic networks and so on, or diplomatic representations, we might be recognized from this point of view, we would also be successful and then we would be valued on this basis. But of course we are going to some high policy and everything else, just not what is vitally vital to the state of Slovenia as a small country if we want to survive. Only because of economic development, our own work, our own ingenuity - everything depends on us alone. So this should be encouraged, not by some high policy, something imaginary, because then, at the end of the day, we have no benefit. However, these solutions that you have given, I must say that we do not agree with them in principle. Because it will happen again that we will establish a network or establish some state bureaucracy, or on the basis of existing institutions, which we will, of course, reshape and so on. However, some serious integration in all these institutions is not felt in this proposal. Our assessment is that all of these entities, which are already engaged in various ways today, with these promotions, internal, external and so on, should need to be brought together slightly more, connected and operated, it is said, more organised, more centralistic. This does not appear to be the case, although the agency that will be created will have some authority. On the other hand, we see that public powers are being granted to carry out these activities and the extent to which they will be empowered, but now there is another issue. It is likely that all those institutions that are already dealing with these matters will be given public authority and that everyone in his field will rule and break as before. How this will be organised and linked is, of course, another issue. We also estimate that by doing so, only the re-expenditure of the budget will go mainly towards some promotion, to promote investment as a promotion of the internationalisation of enterprises, to bureaucracy, to employ new bureaucrats, and how these things will actually respond in practice, in the field, but there is another issue. We are extremely missing, definitely and truly, as you yourself have written, and as we have already pointed out many times, and as we have said, as you also wrote on page 23, point 1.2.2. in the first paragraph, where you say: "Last time, there has been increasing cooperation with regional development agencies and municipalities in providing conditions for the implementation of concrete foreign investments." Yes, of course, my respects. How different. How many times have we warned and said that you can set up thousands of institutions at the state level, set up thousands of bureaucrats, and concrete things can only be realized in local communities, in regions, in municipalities, and should play a decisive role in this, certainly, temporary institutions, all of which are regional in nature, such as regional development agencies and so on. There is not much talk about how they will participate in this process and in this system. We have said many times: the country's policy can only be implemented directly in the environment, on the ground. Here are mostly congregations, and the congregations are those who know best what they have in their area, what resources are, what are the possibilities of the workforce, the personnel, as we say, the spatial resources, everything else, everything else that is available. It is also the easiest way to involve themselves in the search for some promising investments, foreign investors and possible aid - possibly a little less - already existing companies to perform on foreign markets, which may already have greater competence at some national level. But, acquisition, real investment, foreign investment on the ground itself, and certainly the municipalities of those institutions that should, even possibly, have more financial resources, a better way of financing should happen in the municipalities, in order to provide all the conditions for them to then, with space and municipal equipment and so on - not to say anything, because we know what needs to be prepared and arranged - so that the municipalities can then successfully invite and also act as positive actors, as one of the important members in ensuring the promotion of investment in our area. In short, this does not exist in this bill, we hope that you will take these comments into account so that you will try to include as many powers as possible in this proposal as possible and also the activities and roles of municipalities, regions and regional development agencies. We warmly recommend this to your soul - if you say so. And we hope that you will take this into account, then we will certainly be happy to cooperate in the further adoption of this law. And, of course, the outcome and impact of all these expectations that you have made with this bill will certainly be effective and successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We support the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses in the UK Group of Social Democrats because we believe that the proposed law is necessary and, of course, we support its objectives and fundamental solutions in order to achieve more effective organisation in this area. The bill also follows the economic development strategy of Slovenia, which highlights foreign direct investment and export growth as a factor for increasing economic growth. The law is particularly needed after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, but some responsibilities are also transferred to Brussels, and this is mainly about trade policy and, of course, also some restriction on the conclusion of agreements with third countries. It will therefore be necessary to pay particular attention and adapt to these new facts and it is therefore imperative to seek new forms of export promotion, quality foreign investment and, of course, to lead a more active form of international economic cooperation. All of this, we note, is because if we analyze the situation so far, we can also critically conclude that Slovenia has not invested enough resources in comparison with other countries, nor has it had sufficient effective and coordinated organisation at government and country level to strengthen economic relations with foreign countries. This is not least evident from the explanation of the bill of motion, and, of course, we are pleased that both the ministry and the government are aware of it. In doing so, we note that, above all, individual companies that have traditionally been targeted at foreign markets have been successful, but of course we can be dissatisfied with the fact that insufficient effective measures have been taken to encourage, in particular, the small economy and medium-sized enterprises to be more involved in exports, and that is where the government’s inefficiency has come to the point that medium and small enterprises have not been more involved in the international economy. We therefore, of course, support solutions that help to reach a greater level of foreign investment not only for successful companies, but also for contributing to economic growth, in particular new jobs, more coherent regional development, exports and, of course, greater added value and competitiveness. Therefore, in the area of export promotion and business internationalisation, it will be essential to ensure a significantly more coordinated and effective work of ministries and government constitutionally and, of course, their better cooperation with economic associations or chambers, businesses and, of course, others. In fact, we note that some foreign policy, economic policy, deals with a large number of departments such as the Ministry of the Economy, within it the agency for economic promotion of Slovenia and foreign investment, of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food with its offices within the Ministry in this area, the Slovenian export company, the Slovenian tourism organisation and the Chamber of Commerce itself appear in these efforts. And, of course, coordination between all these institutions and departments has not been sufficiently effective so far. In addition to, of course, better organisational integration and common work, given the limited resources, financial resources of the budget and the private sector will also need to be better integrated. It will also be necessary, in the example of comparable countries, to strengthen the economic representative network abroad, to this end not only will it be a declaration, but it will also actually have to represent the diplomatic consular office or network of such representatives abroad more effectively. Taking into account all these difficult tasks, as well as the content of the law, which we believe provides an appropriate basis for more efficient organisation in this area, we will, of course, support this law in the parliamentary group. We are particularly pleased that this is somehow also the response to our long-standing efforts and, last but not least, the response to the consideration of the Committee of the National Economic Assembly, which has already pointed out many times the shortcomings in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Bajuk has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! That's a good-bye! The law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of companies - a beautiful name, an interesting topic. Mr Minister has warned us in his presentation that this is primarily about institutional arrangements for us in Slovenia, in order to be comparable to other countries, especially the European Community, which are very active in this area. Of course, the Minister did not mention that all those countries that are active did not need any law to promote foreign direct investment. They don't really know the law. But they do have a system. What are we gonna have? And we'll have a marriage, and the system still won't. This is a significant assessment from the point of view of New Slovenia. Mr Minister also warned us - and rightly, and I thank him for that - he warned us that this promotion of foreign direct investment is part of the strategy for the economic development of the Republic of Slovenia. I am grateful to him because, in fact, the introduction and the whole law are not very extensive, nor are the explanations, but they only invite us to read how the Slovenian state has established its strategy for economic development six years ago. You must remember that six years ago, the Slovenian government actually mobilised the professional public in Slovenia and with it formed this important document, the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. An extremely interesting document accepted by the State as its own. At that time, it really seemed that there was only a substantial consensus on certain key issues related, inter alia, to our economic development. One of such key issues, on which the Slovenian public legitimately expected a political consensus to be reached, is all about the expected role of foreign investment in our common future. The strategy stressed - and I believe that, rightly so - the positive role of foreign inward direct investment and also highlighted it as one of the fundamental components of Slovenia's development progress. As I said, I think this strategy has made the right decision because finally empirical analyses and professional research, both Slovenian and foreign, have shown that foreign direct investment through increased local and industrial efficiency contributes significantly to the restructuring, development, competitiveness and export intensity of the Slovenian economy. Here I quote the introduction of the government itself. Companies with foreign capital, where a foreign investor has at least 10% of the equity share, on average show a higher profit than business to capital and a higher value added to the employee than domestic companies. Compared to domestic companies, these companies with foreign capital are much larger, capital-intensive enterprises, have better asset structure and are significantly more export-oriented. Among the changes in companies invested by foreign investors is the improvement in product quality due to changes in production and technological process, improvement of production programmes that have narrowed down and focused on the company's core activity, changes in the organisational structure of the company, improvement of the information system, significant improvement in the quality of marketing and so on. So, the strategy, which actually provided direct foreign investment with a key role for our economic development, was properly set up and also professionally subdued by empirical analysis in both Slovenia and abroad. In this strategy, the Slovenian government stated that this attitude of Slovenia towards foreign direct investment would actually play this key role and they wrote it "in the years to come". Of course it's interesting, you wonder what they thought about it in the years to come. What kind of years did they actually think about when they wrote it down? It is interesting, I think it is right that we have before us that this document, the strategy for the development of the Slovenian economy, is to be implemented in the period 2001/2006. So when the government has written into this strategy that foreign direct investment is supposed to be one of the fundamental components of our development progress, it would normally be normal for a normal situation and a normal state to expect only something to happen or at least something to happen. What happened? And that I will not be re-marked as just the voice of the opposition, which looks negative and represents negative situations, but I will read directly from the introduction to this proposal, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Slovenian Government. The situation in Slovenia in the field of foreign direct investment, I quote: "By 2000 the annual inflows of foreign direct investment in Slovenia amounted to only around 1% of the gross domestic product. In 2001, Slovenia recorded a marked increase in foreign investment flows of 442 million US dollars and in 2002 it rose to record US$2 billion and thus reached the total value of overflows from all previous years after independence. Large jumps in foreign direct investment in relation to previous years were largely driven by privatisation acquisitions, such as Sava, Tayers and Lek, and the privatisation of state assets, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, as well as in part the expansion of existing foreign-owned companies. It is encouraging, the right government, to also improve the situation in the area of initial so-called "greenfield investments", which are still very rare, though still very rare. Do you know how rare these are? Yes, it is so rare that in the last 12 months we have recorded only one, and this is a small hotel here around Ljubljana, and in fact almost nothing. So, on the one hand, we have a strategy and on the other hand, we have facts. What are these facts? These facts are as I have already mentioned and the government mentions them: that in this area Slovenia is still in the lowest place, as regards foreign direct investment. Of course, a cannon isn't just my words. Such differences have already been pointed out by experts. In this strategy, which was written down in 1999, it was debated throughout Slovenia in 2000 and finally adopted for 2001 and this is the so-called "implementation deficit" - a beautiful word. I quote this from the strategy on page 16, if anyone wants to check: "At the conclusion of the transition on a formal and functional basis, it passes to the implementation deficit, which is the difference between the formal accepted and actual realization of the accepted, inter-standardised and actual impact of the various social actors. This non-compliance leads to the sub-optimal functioning of the socio-economic system and the divergent effects of development initiatives. If the legal order is different in different parts of the company of the economic system, the solutions shall be formulated in a partial manner. The consequences are, first: lower balance of development, which increases pressure on inferior resources. Secondly, development is only too adapted to the interests of a smaller number of actors. Thirdly, the material poverty of development and financial overcoming development arguments. The implementation deficit is synonymous with the lack of efficiency of the state administration, government and economic policies and determines the time needed to complete the transition. Its reduction is one of the main ways to improve national competitiveness and the sustainability of sustainable development." End of quote, from the 2001 Slovenian government document. So, "implementation deficit", for those who do not understand such words, this is what we in New Slovenia always warn; and this is a gap between words and actions; a big gap between words and action. Now we're in the middle of 2004. Thus, almost two thirds of the period for which we have written this strategy has expired; two thirds of this period. And this National Assembly now has before it this proposal for a law that is supposed to encourage and actually realize what the government has written in the 2000 strategy. So, it encouraged foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of our companies. It is also interesting if we go and look again at how the government imagined that this would have to be done, what Slovenian experts said to the government and the government adopted in 2000 how to do it. And we are going to the strategy - nothing more about the implementation deficit and I must admit that the strategy is an extremely good document that is truly worth reading. Not only because, from a political point of view, it clearly proves this gap between words and actions that the opposition can read with joy, but because it has set it right. Here we have smart pillars set up to achieve certain things, and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy is one of the pillars of this strategy. This includes restructuring businesses and increasing the competitiveness of the business sector, developing an efficient financial system, and developing an efficient economic infrastructure. These are the three components of this pillar'strengthening competitiveness'. And within the restructuring of companies, we have the completion of the transition defence restructuring and, on the other hand, the increase in competitiveness. By "offensive restructuring" - those are nice words, what does that mean? It means that they are very well defined in this strategy, various mechanisms for enhancing the competitiveness of the business sector and - and here we come to a key part - internationalisation of the business sector. So this is part of this strategy, the internationalisation of this sector. "Internationalisation" - and here I quote from the strategy itself - "is increasingly important for the development and strengthening of the competitiveness of the business sector. Slovenian internationalisation policy will be based on the following definitions..." And here we have some definitions, five of them. "To remove obstacles with internationalisation. The most important and time-consuming first task is to remove administrative and other obstacles to internationalisation, without which any promotion of internationalisation is pointless" - Slovenian experts. "Secondly, build on the real needs of businesses and focus on aid to smaller and medium-sized enterprises. Thirdly, flexibility, transparency and long-term orientation. Policy will be flexible to respond quickly to the changing needs of businesses and to allow for measuring the actual costs and achievements of individual measures. Policy will be long-term and transparent to consolidate its basic characteristics and continuity. Fourthly, flexibility and policy definition. Policy adapts to constant and rapid changes in the external environment of businesses." And finally, "To emerge from the holistic concept of internationalization. Since the success of output internationalisation is strongly dependent on the success of previous or simultaneous entry international activities and the importance of global networks and strategic links is rapidly increasing, the policy will shift from accelerating exports to fostering other forms of output and entry internationalisation." And this is a framework for the internationalisation of entrepreneurship. In this context, economic policy has shown itself to be particularly important in the following three areas. These are: entry and exit foreign direct investment and financing of international economic collateral. How, though, did the government imagine that it would achieve this or what it would do in the area of promoting foreign investment? Priority measures for the implementation of the guidelines, which are the first to encourage - at least this - "will adapt the existing systemic economic incentives so that they are accessible to new foreign investors and comparable to Slovenia's competing countries. Establish an industrial zone management company and entrust state-owned companies with adequate spatial potential to establish an international competitive offer of land for domestic and foreign investors." Does anyone know if something like this has happened? "Helping local communities to promote foreign direct investment." Finally, fourthly: "Institute an institution to promote foreign direct investment with a clear legal mandate, professional supervision of the operation and adequate human resources budget resources." And this is where the government's proposal comes in. That was the concept of what we were going to do. Now I'd like to compare, and I think the right concept was smartly set. But I think some pure wine would be good for us to pour. Because, after all, what are those factors that affect all these things? And I'm going to have to re-use these international comparisons that give us, at least create, some image, what's important and what's not. Then we can make our own assessment of whether this proposal is relevant or not. That's the problem. And I am going back to these international comparisons of this Swiss Institute - an international institute for the development of management. And here I used only data from 2001, simply because for 2003 they are not yet fully available to all normal mortals like me. In fact, it's only gonna come in a few days. But what's interesting is that as far as the things that affect someone's decision to invest in this country or that country, they're the following things, and I'm going to quote some of them myself. On the question of whether government measures are effectively implemented? Slovenia is 34. Whether entrepreneurship is hampered by bureaucracy is the 40th place for Slovenia. But protectionism affects entrepreneurial activity negatively - Slovenia - in 43rd place. Openness for foreign suppliers in the field of public procurement - 37th place. Effectiveness of competition law - 44th place. Price control, that is to say, whether controlled prices affect the price policy of most companies - 47th place, that is, of 49 to know almost the last. But the grey economy is hampering economic development - 49th place since 49th. Discrimination against foreign companies in legislation - 46th city. The possibility of creating new companies - 41st place. Flexibility of labour legislation - 43rd place. Confidentiality of financial transactions - 48th place, behind us is Russia. Cross-border investments, whether a contractor has the freedom to negotiate with a foreigner - 45th place. Whether foreign investors have the opportunity to buy shares in domestic companies - 40th place. Whether there is open access to foreign financial institutions by foreign investors - 48th place. This may only mean that it is not open, but that the conditions - our financial institutions are not interesting. Because they're not interesting to foreigners, and of course, why would they be domestic? Limited access by foreign entrepreneurs to the domestic capital market - 48th place. Access by domestic companies to foreign financial markets, that is to say how ours can go elsewhere - 46th city. Promoting foreign investment - 47th place. And something that is very interesting and very important for the decision. How many engineers do we have available if anyone comes? How many engineers, by number? We've been there 45th since the '49s. And finally very worrying - the flow of science between the university and companies 42nd city. Well, I'm sure on the side of my colleagues' faces I see positions, you know, talking about this thing again. But it's not just me, you know, that the government actually talked about these things in this strategy when it wrote down six years ago and I quote, and they were already very worried about what it means. The classification of Slovenia among the 47 countries on the IMD complex competitiveness scale improved from 40th to 35th in the 98/2000 period, which was then, we now fell to 45th, so we understand each other. When the government, even if it improved, had some clever approach to it. See what they wrote: "But it hides stagnation in itself at a low level or even worsening some of the factors. There is no doubt the greatest room for improving Slovenia's complex competitiveness. The weaknesses of Slovenia are reflected in particular in government, internationalisation, financial market, science and technology. If we are looking for a common denominator of the weaknesses of those indicators in which Slovenia has become worse, this is a lack of synergy and social consensus for development, insufficient adaptation to globalisation, insufficient focus on the buyer, a focus on short-term results on the harm of sustainable development, inefficient state administration and excessive national protectionism. According to the last report, science and technology are among all the networks that are the most backward, and for four places, which is due to the insufficient development function of enterprises and the incoherence with research institutes." End of quote of the document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the strategy for development six years ago when it looked at these same indicators, which are even worse today. And one wonders how we would react now. I hope that it is better than the Prime Minister's decision at the first moment when he learned this when he rushed to a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce and said to Slovenian entrepreneurs and directors: "Be a little more optimistic, don't sell such an image." In my interpretation of this fact, which I read in the Slovenian media, I would say, the purpose of fusing the data, if we don't talk, then the thing will go away. Dear colleagues and colleagues, nothing will happen if we do not face our reality as it is. And the kind that it is doesn't arouse the greatest optimism. So what did the government do now? When we have this strategy, we have indicators of this reality to mention that these indicators are actually the product of the opinion of Slovenian entrepreneurs. There are a number of people selected in addition to formal institutions, such as the Institute for Economic Development and the Economic Institute of the University of Ljubljana, these are the partners of this analysis, which I have just quoted, and they are entrepreneurs, domestic and foreign, to whom questions are raised and answered. From this you create indicators in all these countries, and then we have this order that we have, that is, an assessment of our own people. What does the government now suggest? The government is proposing this law. What does this law rule? This law governs two things. It is a problem of how we will have an agency that will be more effective than before, how we will take action and what we will do to also help and promote the internationalisation of our entrepreneurs, to help them to go and participate and to be successful abroad. This law, if you look at it, is short, has 22 articles, some in 20 articles. It looks like a marriage. It has all the characteristics of a marriage. He has articles, he is in the hearing at this solemn hall, he will certainly be voted. What's he doing? Very little. In fact, it's just an inventory of what needs to be done and a promise of who will do it. We're not gonna save anything here. The essentials will be left to the government to decide for themselves. For example, the Ministry of Economy will propose to the government, the government will adopt a five-year programme. We don't know what this five-year program is going to be like. The National Assembly or at least the majority who will adopt this law will wash their hands and we will think that we have done something again. In fact, we will do almost nothing, including what the Minister himself said in his shift when we started to consider this point. Mr Minister said that there will be no financial implications, because the 2004 and 2005 budget for this agency will be exactly what it has been. So, what is this law? We can adopt this law. I'd still be willing to support him if we could at least change some things. I would like to see the National Assembly play any role in order not to wash our hands again, and the government will make a five-year program or two, and then we will see. Have them do their own program, the minister will write it. Mr. Secretary, this is not an assessment of your work. In fact, you have just come and joined this government and you cannot be responsible for all these things. Responsibility is elsewhere. But for the future, it's a responsibility. We are also prepared to support this law, but we must admit to you that we will not achieve anything by doing so, because the key things that in fact determine and influence that Slovenia will actually make a greater share of foreign direct investment will not be resolved by this law. And we did not just lose two thirds of the time or that period in which this strategy should be implemented, in fact, respected colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, large coalitions, we have lost seven-eighths of the time you had to arrange it. Since the final four-year term of office [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There's only six months left. Too bad, it's a waste of time again, but Slovenia is already used to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you. Ivan Bozič has the floor, the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Secretary and Secretary, welcome! Colleagues and colleagues! Good day to you all. The proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment in enterprise internationalisation, EPA 1153-III, which was tabled in the National Assembly on 12 February, is under consideration today. Slovenia does not need a new independent agency in this area. The existing activity and, in particular, existing budgetary resources aimed at promoting foreign direct investment and internationalisation of medium and small enterprises can be distributed through the Ministry of Regional Development. Given the fact that the country's development policies are always linked to regional development, it would be organizational to adapt its work in this area as well. Among the reasons for the adoption of the law are the fact that the country is poorly organised in the field of promoting foreign direct investment and that it is engaged in a number of institutions and therefore the results are relatively poor. It would be clear that some other countries, in particular Austria, which authorised its Chamber of Commerce to open economic departments at the offices and consulates, which are also its Representations. Given the fact that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce has already opened some of its representations abroad, but its limited financial resources do not allow it to continue this process, it would suggest exploring the possibility of such a solution in setting up a foreign network to promote foreign direct investment. Certainly, the transformation of the already existing agency to promote foreign direct investment from the body within the Ministry of Economy into a separate person of public law under the Law on Public Agencies is primarily an additional cost and further reduces the overall efforts of the State to promote this activity. On this occasion, it should be recalled that, in addition to direct measures taken by the State in the area of promotion of foreign direct investment, it would be advisable to encourage greater international visibility of Slovenia in international economic institutions. Higher levels of foreign direct investment in Slovenia would certainly also benefit from membership in the OECD - international economic cooperation organisations, which we are not yet members of. This is a matter of stressing the consequences of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economics, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which should accelerate our inclusion through concerted action. Our membership in the OECD would certainly bring Slovenia closer to foreign investment and investors, because this is despite the most economically powerful and important countries in the world. Slovenia's foreign policy, however, has in recent times focused mainly on the achievement of the objectives of joining the European Union and NATO, and has overly neglected the economic side of its mission. The Slovenian People's Party's Group believes that this is a completely unnecessary law, and above all an attempt to establish a new institution whose objective is in particular more stable and better paid jobs, which could also be threatened after the elections. I would also like to comment a little on the Government's contribution to the Rapporteur's number 19. On page 22 1.2.1 - The situation in Slovenia in the field of foreign direct investment. It has been mentioned that for a long time these investments were considered to be only about 1% of gross domestic product in 2001442 million dollars and two billion dollars in 2002. We estimate that it is only money from the takeover of Sava, Teresa, Lek and the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as anyone else. However, there is no indication that one person was more employed for this two billion dollars. In Chapter 1.2.2 - National institutions for the promotion of foreign direct investment, on page 23, last paragraph, says that in 2000 and 2003, 22 investment projects totalled over €170 million, which will bring some more than 1900 new jobs within the contractually agreed period. So here for €170 million, 1900 new jobs, there is no data for $2 billion. I think it would be good for him to get information for what I've listed under 1.2.1. We're not yet warmed up in the parliamentary group for marriage, but you'll have to convince us. We believe that it is better to do as Austria has done and to do quickly and not by law to establish new agencies that we probably have too many in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you. And also the position of the LDS Club, which will be presented by Master Blaž Kavčič, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u128	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Mr. Secretary and co-workers! For Slovenia, international exchange is an extremely important area. The Slovenian economy is relatively small and internationally very open. Exports reach around 60% of the gross social product. This is a specific circumstance that needs to be taken into account in all economic considerations, including trade imports which slightly exceed export volumes, of course, is important and the current account is positive due to service performance. Investment flows are more modest but still important, but they need to be strengthened. When we talk about investment import flows, sometimes we get the feeling that the fact that there was no sale of the Slovenian economy, that in Slovenia there was no so-called sale of family silver, maybe someone was disturbed. In the LDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises is a good basis for enhancing the competitiveness of the economy, offers a good and modern institutional framework for promoting the internationalisation of Slovenian companies and attracting quality foreign investment. This law will make Slovenia more recognizable than a potential and interesting location for foreign direct investment, because the legal regime will only promote these signals for the country's pro-active policy in this area. This means that we will not wait so long for individual investments to be heated by foreign investors, but in this area we will take an active role and market our potentials. The regulation provided for by the Law on Promoting the Internationalisation of Businesses will make it possible to improve the business environment for Slovenian companies and increase their export competitiveness. The draft law lays down a legal basis for non-refundable financial incentives for foreign direct investment that will allow for the upgrading of the current allocation system [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] encourage Slovenia to have a transparent competitive offer also for large capital intensive investment projects, which are planned for a long time and which also take years to draw on incentives. [[...]] The establishment of a public agency to carry out activities to promote foreign direct investment and internationalisation of enterprises is envisaged. However, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Economic Promotion and Foreign Investment as a body within the Ministry of Economy would cease to operate. The new agency, as envisaged in the proposal, is taking over all employees and assets. The draft law also provides for the possibility that, on the basis of an analysis of economic eligibility and with the agreement of the Government, the public agency will also become more involved in the opening of a representative network abroad. Public authority may also be given to carry out activities to promote the internationalisation of enterprises. That's the law. This would allow further rationalisation of the operation in this area, allowing them to make better use of existing infrastructure, for example, the infrastructure available to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The solutions to the bill allow the network of economic councillors at diplomatic and consular offices and the Agency's representations to be complemented in their work and that duplication of activities would not pose an important problem. In the LDS, we believe that the bill is very well prepared, represents a regulatory framework for the functioning of institutions to promote the internationalisation of enterprises and cross-border investment, while establishing internationally comparable institutional bases for the effective promotion of foreign direct investment in Slovenia and the promotion of the internationalisation of Slovenian companies, according to their export and investment activities abroad. I am sure that all those Members of the various parliamentary groups and Members wishing to support the export orientation of the Slovenian economy will not give up their support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members. He'll get the word Janko Weber. He wants to discuss it again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u130	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Thanks again for saying that. In this law, I think that Slovenia can also implement its strategic position and the fact that an important European transport corridor is taking place through Slovenia, and this is one of the advantages that I think we must take advantage of. However, we must not forget our own advantages and opportunities within the country itself, or even slightly or especially outside the transport corridors, which are equally interesting for foreign investors, since this is not least evidenced by some of the investments that have already been made in the past period and have, of course, contributed to the fact that, above all, the areas that have encountered an extremely high level of unemployment due to the loss of former markets have solved this problem through foreign investment or investors coming from other developed countries. This is a confirmation of the fact that it is not necessary for all investments to be at these important corridors, but also beyond that. However, there is still a need to do more to ensure that these are not individual and isolated cases, so I think that there will also be a need to think more intensively about the measures provided for in Articles 4 and 5 when it comes to offering free offers of information, advice and other services to foreign investors, that there will also be a need for good cooperation in particular with the enabling centres for the development of a small economy in those areas which are still facing today with over-average unemployment and where there is some other way of prevailing labour intensive industries. These institutions, established either by entrepreneurs or by local communities, also want to provide free information in order for investors to come into this environment, and they can also provide additional support to the agency which is supposed to be bearable in this area and to coordinate certain activities in order for investors to come to Slovenia. However, I would also like to draw attention to the known fact that we are still facing something today, if I may say so, dead capital in the form of objects. This is mainly a matter of facilities that have been designed primarily for military activities and are now on their own. The Ministry of Defence still has a number of capacities that could be very simple and not expensive for the state budget to offer as an additional benefit in order to provide space for foreign investment as well. These properties, at least in the area of Kočevská, have been under-offered in these processes in order to encourage the development and facilitation of foreign investment. In particular, I would also point out that it is likely that the analysis of the necessary facilities will also have to be carried out in the department of supply reserves, which sometimes has facilities at very attractive locations, which are not necessarily necessary for the existence and development of commodity reserves, especially in the face of the new conditions that exist when Slovenia enters the European Union. This is also one of the important, I will say, capitals, which we somehow do not involve actively enough in the resolution of investments in the field of the economy, but are, as I have said, at extremely attractive locations, which are usually also communally equipped and do not require any additional investment to keep some economic activity at these locations alive. As an important factor that I think that, at least after we decided to take such a large step in Slovenia in this area, good promotion of Slovenia could also be for foreign investment, the fact that with Natura 2000 35% of the country of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia dedicated to the active protection of birds and habitats. Of course, this should also represent some kind of trade mark, the representation of Slovenia in the European Union and beyond its borders. In order not to become an obstacle to the development of these areas, however, there will be a lot more to be done. Above all, I see here the possibility that, through the allocation of financial incentives for investments provided for in Article 4 of this Law, Natura 2000 and investment in these areas, in a way that provides for tax incentives for investors and for the provision of education for adults in particular. Many times we face the fact that we have a high level of unemployment, but this structure does not achieve adequate education, which would be particularly suitable for investors with, say, environmentally friendly activities. That is why I think that one of the guidelines if we decided to devote 35% of Slovenia to Natura 2000 in order to promote, above all, environmentally friendly investments, and this is a priority in these areas. This I think should be included in the programme adopted by the government and envisaged in Article 5 as one of the very concrete measures in how we want to develop these areas in Slovenia. With these guidelines, I think we will achieve that Slovenia will achieve the advantage that we obviously have, as I have already mentioned, through important transport corridors in Europe, through preserved nature and, of course, through the awareness that we want to preserve rural settlement and, of course, preserve it primarily through environmentally friendly investments. However, this will be possible if we also have appropriate financial incentives for investors. I hope that the government will take this fact into account when preparing the programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you. To discuss this, Irmo Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I see this law as one of many in this four-year period, which contributes to the implementation of the economic development strategy set by the State not only in the light of the accession to the European Union but also in the light of coherent regional development. And it is not true that if we take a full look at the legislation, the budgets from 2000 to today, and more than anything else, we can see that the economic development strategy is being implemented and therefore the implementation deficit is getting smaller and smaller as a result, and it is never able to avoid it in any society. We always like to write more than we can then. But to say that the strategy does not come true, that it has not been seen to date, is indeed purely sedition. Only if I mention two evidences that this is not the case: the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment, which we have recently adopted, is one of the important measures that will enable our companies to raise risk capital and so on not to mention. The debate was held in this National Assembly. And not lastly, look at the budget. Mr. Kelemina, I agree with you. The role of local communities is extremely important, but it is not the original competence of local communities to create new jobs. But they have some tools in their hands that they can help with. These tools are the preparation of an appropriate spatial plan, which is the responsibility of the local community. Last but not least, it is also a financial environment created by the Ministry of Economic Affairs when it calls for assistance in creating appropriate business zones in a particular municipality or regional environment. And you know exactly that for the 2004-2006 budget period, 7.7 billion tolars are earmarked for business zones. This is a combination of the Structural Funds of the European Union and the Slovenian State Budget. Of course, 25% of the local community's co-financing share is expected. In their municipal budgets, Mr Kelemina, the local communities that are aware of these opportunities, reserve these funds for this important investment in their local environment and enrich these funds three times, four times by state resources, with the funds of the European Union. But if not, Mr. Kelemina, no one can force them to do so. It is an important municipal policy, and I hope that these important roles in this part are realized by the local community, and, together with a state policy that is stimulating, we cannot say that it is not, they co-create jobs in a particular local environment. Of course, it is presumptuous to expect from local communities what this regulation offers us today, as well as assistance from the state to promote coherent regional development, to attract foreign investment in local regional environments as well. It is necessary to know that these foreign investments will come where the friendly environment will be, in the local community. I want them to come into those regional environments that are most underprivileged and, in fact, due to the restructuring processes of the old industrial sectors, the number of jobs has almost halved in the past thirteen years. This happened to us in the Mežiški valley, due to the closure of the mine and the restructuring of our ironworks in Ravna. And, if anything, we want help from the state in this work, on the one hand from the local community, which, in the context of these important incentives, should carry out its business. Of course, we cannot expect the local community to do what the State is committed to doing with public funds. This is: to promote investments with free offer of information, advice or other services to foreign investors; to market Slovenia and its regions as investment locations. I imagine a catalogue of regional offers, not just locations, but also skilled labour in this environment. We will, in fact, all of us, both the people at the locations and the state, together, will have to prepare such documents. Promotions of the image of Slovenia and its regions as locations for investment and the most important allocation of financial incentives to foreign investors for investment. I believe that, of course, such a five-year programme, which is extremely important to be prepared by the government, is the most flexible way in this entrepreneurial environment and it is also necessary to monitor the way in which funding is provided and how effective these investments will be in an environment, whether they will result in greater employment and the introduction of new technologies into an environment and thus also an increase in the contribution to the state treasury. Then this is a closed circle. And I really think this kind of approach is decisive. We must be aware, however, of the burden on the local community and expect that it is for the foreign investor herself to arrange the space to handle all that you respect, Mr Kelemina, that you have said that the crucial role of local communities should be played. I believe that the municipalities want this kind of help to pay from the state treasury I think they have a few problems already planning this 25% participation in investing in the establishment of a business zone in its area. And all these measures, which are hand-to-hand to build up the local community and the state, can lead to greater employment. It is only in person that I hope that, when sites for such investments are sought, that all of what I have previously stated will be taken into account in the preparation of the relevant sites: adequately trained personnel, then the supply of business zones for foreign investors, and not least, I think that the environment that has not been recovered by the past restructuring processes in the majority of the world and that they fail to provide new, fresh jobs to the extent that this almost halving of employees in such an environment is needed. I therefore think that this view will also need everything in order to promote coherent regional development, and I really do not think that it is the right assessment of the honourable opposition Members that there has been no action in these years, which would also, in terms of increasing the promotion of coherent regional development, be in the Ministry of the Economy's rules in order not to find them. However, it is necessary to know, Mr Kelemina, that we must not impose too much burden on the municipalities; it is expected that on the international floor they will rotate as skillfully as can be expected from the institutions of the country which have been rolling on this platform for many years, of course, it is not possible. The public agency itself, as a matter of fact, I don't think it's in place. However, it will, of course, be very careful to monitor the public budget that we will invest in the work of this national agency to promote foreign direct investment and to promote internationalisation in order to justify themselves with national economic benefits. On the other hand, we expect more employment and the transfer of new technologies, not least that our micro and macro-enterprises will be more qualified to perform in foreign markets. But here we will have the opportunity to monitor these effects and in one place the matter is substantially more coordinated than it is fragmented. This actually shows us in all areas as a smart investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Branko Kelemina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you for saying that again. Well, I hope that this bill really isn't some pre-election LDS euphoria about superlatives, as you've been talking about these things now. Indeed, the fact is and you have to admit that all open opportunities so far have been open so that, in order to do so, real foreign investment and also to promote the internationalisation of enterprises, within the current framework, with current powers, with the current possibilities of resources available to us, can be realized on a significantly higher scale than we are now. You have also admitted this in your own explanation, this is definitely and it was certainly also because of the fact that we have not implemented these measures so far, Slovenia is also causing some damage. Definitely, definitely. I think we could admit it. Now you're saying that some of us may have been disturbed by the fact that there was no sale of Slovenian property and the sale of silver, but I don't know what nonsense you're fooling around here. Okay, you can say that too, because it's no problem! No one has ever had this interest, nor in our Slovenian Democratic Party. But even if it was a huge illegal property, we can say that maybe half of the state's assets have been stolen, which is definitely true. That's right, silver now in private pockets, the one we had before as a national fortune. But it's a different effect. We do not claim or even advocate that we sell out Slovenian companies and that your silver, as you say, is all yours. Because there was a million or more possibilities in huge areas - there are still - where Slovenia may not prosper, where other societies have better technologies, better products, better opportunities, even marketing, etc. - we know these things. Thus, we could invite in those areas especially where we are not, because, who says now that they are here now opening the textile industry and the footwear industry etc. We know that this makes no sense because it is much cheaper in China, etc., we are already moving our production elsewhere and closing it down because it is not worth it - because we know why. [[..]] There's no point in talking about it. But there have certainly been opportunities in other areas and we have not taken advantage of them. So we could combine these things with things that we have or that we don't have, and we could achieve significantly higher effects than we've achieved. You're talking about the economic development strategy, how it's happening. Well, well, all these measures that you've now taken with the previous law, and now with this, it will be possible - hopefully at least - that there will be any movement, but we have years and years of registered unemployed - something up or down - anyway. But I say that they still have hundreds of thousands of unregistered, definitely who want to work, but they can't work because they don't have a job because they've lost a long time ago and they're at a stage where they don't have any rights and they don't even apply to institutions, etc. [[..]] Now, of course, you have found out with all these strategies, with all the policies you have, you will not be able to reduce these unemployment yourself, which you are always talking about reducing it, and Mr Rob just said that it will be further reduced. Okay. We certainly support these measures in order to reduce them, but you certainly have also found that you will not be able to do so by what you have in your hands. You're not going to make it, so now you really need to invest more in this - if anyone else wants to come to us. For we know that with all the information we have available, with various documents, including from the European Community and so on, where it has been said that the price of labour in Slovenia is too expensive, especially in those sectors where it is more labour intensive. Well, high technologies are probably not at our disposal. Those who are smart go out or hire them in bureaucracy. And that there are also major bureaucratic obstacles in Slovenia to the opening of new activities, new businesses - we know what is connected in this regard, from permits, space and so on. In short, a whole series of obstacles, I hope you will be these things - now you say, here in these measures too, that you will do these things. But only if you look at these measures that you're trying to implement: well, free information supply, someone has to gather here, this is already a lot to collect, I hope you'll take advantage of all these resources and potentials, so I don't know how many will not be here. But that's what they're going to do again. You know who's going to serve on this account if you pay for it. Marketing Slovenia and its regions as a location for investments and then further promotions and so on - fine. In this area, too, it will be necessary if this data is not available - I hope that some data is already there, but again someone will have to try and collect, make a data bank. I don't know what she'll be like. I hope she's really reviewed and effective. And again, who will it be? They will not do this, nor will any added value be new. This is essentially just a waste of budget money to create some bases and so on; in short, bureaucracy will do something. Thank God, at least they won't sit around without a connection. And then a whole series of financial incentives allocated to investment, or I don't know how much money there is for it, you'll probably be doing some calls in this area, I hope that in the right direction - well, the strategy says something. We hope it's effective. In short, a variety of different tasks will be carried out both in one sector and in the other of the proposed law. It's more than bureaucratic. Let's just look at activities to promote the internationalisation of businesses - again collecting information, we have this data in the Chamber of Commerce, everywhere, a million. Now, if you're going to pay them extra so that they can keep doing this, because now they're a little bit, they say, bad financially because of these activities and so on. Okay, let's help them if there's no other solution. Then business delegations, fairs, seminars, conferences, education and so on. Here again, one sector will serve because there is only something to educate us. Just look at the papers, just look at the ads, the papers! And we should be as smart as we are, you understand that we would be the smartest people in the world as we are educated. It's the seminars themselves! All of our professors, doctors of science or whatever they are, you know, they'd just be educating. And of course one hour of this kind of educational process comes -- so the professor earns 50, 60, 70 grand an hour, or what, I don't know, these are huge numbers. I know it pays off. But, as I say, we would just - and I also see at the local level, there are various different workshops and so on; just some education of different measures, such, different directions, I don't know what all of them are, and then finally none of them are hired. This costs enormously, is paid from the state budget, but with regard to employment itself, there is a minimal effect. In short, it would be much better to invest this money on some other projects, but there would be more impact. As far as, say, local communities and my assessments are concerned, first of all, you have also stated here that in 2004, a large number of additional funds will not be allocated or are already allocated to the budget, so that some of the terrible effects in this area - now, if necessary, I do not know what financial needs are at all, how much resources will have to be provided for the individual item, how much you want to give for these incentives for investments and so on; since we do not have this project, we do not know that. [[...]] But with no money, no extra money, probably no special terrible effects, because we have about the same amount of money now and we see what the results are. Well, as for local communities and so on. Look, you know the law, of course, I'm sure, it's written in one indent there that the congregation should also take care to promote economic development; thus, a pamphlet thrown into the law on local self-government. At least that's how it's been so far, I hope it's still in there. But for this municipality, there is not one tolar of any additional funds, after some calculation per capita, principal or whatever you want, it gets nothing. Well, to create conditions from already known, which is the main activity of the congregation, the availability of space and so on, well. But it would be good if the municipalities could only get a little more money for some activities, so that both the councils and all those present there, because there is a lot of knowledge at the municipal level, various resources and so on: from entrepreneurship also the economic district chambers, the chambers of commerce, who would know what we have, including the development agency, such and different, so that all of these resources could be pooled together and then, with some financial incentives, which would already be given, would be easier to create certain conditions for entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. I'll just give you one case. For example, in the local community from which I come, the relatively large municipality, is not yet divided, Sevnica, when we had the new mayoral elections, I will - by the way, I will tell you, and I will not mind if anyone is offended by this, even when we received the new mayor in charge of economic development, I immediately wrote him a letter in which I congratulated him on his election to such an important function or that the municipal council confirmed it. And I suggested to him a number of measures, in what way it would be an attempt to organize, because we had not previously had, in the congregation, a parishioner for the economy, and that, let's say, a small number of them first set up an institution to collect all the resources, from the trade hall, and so on, all the interested, including the public, would be invited together by individual experts, and I was ready to join the group that would be working in this area, then we would make, say, a data bank where we would gather all the information in the congregation about existing facilities, where there are still possible activities, but are abandoned or envisaged, the resources of free capacity in enterprises, various construction plots or land that are available, and so on. And a whole series of other measures after how everyone would work together in this world - or as it was called - to try to promote foreign investment, economy and so on, each by its own line. Nothing's happened until today. But they're doing something, but, well, they didn't want to take these initiatives, like. So I planned, made a nice stop or suggested how these things should be handled. In short, it wasn't. Nevertheless, I think that we would really try this bill with some of the regional development agencies and these statistical regions that we now have, as well as the municipalities, because some of them are very large, capable of having resources to be more involved in these processes, so that a little more attention can be given to them in this law, and that this would encourage them to be even more committed to creating them. It is possible, however, with more concrete incentives, already through the Law on Community Financing and other measures to ensure that municipalities are in these laws and that then, at the lowest level, this policy, which the National Assembly or Government has through strategies and all other documents, is implemented where it actually has to be implemented, is directly on the ground in local communities. In short, there can be a lot of comments, they can be useful, they can also not: However, I hope you will take everything for good and we will really get something positive out of this. We will also continue to do so in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Blaž Kavčič, it's a bad minute for your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u136	Very briefly. The law in its title and content reflects its intention to encourage, but not to create, this is very important. This should also be borne in mind in a negative context. Whoever has no idea what he wants, how he wants, I'm talking about legal and natural persons, only this law won't have much of it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So this law can only be encouraged. [[...]] Secondly, it is necessary to harmonise the institutional environment, so that this law can also have its effect in life, which means that another, in particular, tax legislation, will have to be harmonised in terms of creating a more friendly, more creative environment for entrepreneurship. In this direction it is also appropriate to understand the IMD study, which is of a qualitative nature [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This needs to be seen in a slightly more relative way in relation to quantitative data, but its critical sources should be used to further improve our entrepreneurial environment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek you have the word
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u139	Did you want to do it procedurally before?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u140	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u141	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u142	Not this time. Look, I just want to give you a moment's notice. Indeed, some things have already been pointed out in depth by my colleague Kelemin, but we must find out, after all that has happened on the Committee on the Economy and even today, that this law is primarily pre-eminent in this election year. And that he's an excellent propagandist in political bluff. Indeed, we, in particular legislation, already have this area, and could be implemented and could be complemented. Why do I think that? See, in this explanation you wrote that the law builds on the following principles, and you say: equal access targeting of smaller economic operators and, as a third principle, consistent regional development. This meeting highlighted the concern for coherent regional development by this government. You have withdrawn the law - after four years, five years of marriage, or nothing by the Ministry has worked in this area. This law should be a twin law with this law on coherent regional development, and I firmly believe that in this mandate we will not adopt or adopt a law on coherent regional development. Here is a similar LDS strategy as in the previous mandate for the adoption of the final reports of the Commissions of Inquiry, when it was postponed from the meeting to the meeting, except that it was not considered that the bad data should be made public. It's the same here! This law on coherent regional development, full of principles like this law has been prepared, written with one single purpose - to mislead the public before the elections: how will the second year be better, how will everything be okay in the coming period, how will we take care of entrepreneurship, create an environment that will be business-friendly, even in the law you write about a friendly environment. I think this is a necessary goal, but I don't expect it and I don't believe it, I have too much experience of what pre-election laws look like and what happens to these laws. In the previous term, we passed a law on coherent regional development before the elections. Since it is no longer possible to play on the same bluff, it is only being prepared and the dream will not be accepted. And this law, unfortunately, I believe in these principles, that I do not believe that those who have a political mission to do so have the political power to bring this thing to life. For this reason, it seems to me that the question of whether a project that has only political objectives is worth it is worth it, but it does not actually have those real goals that would make it a small economy, the entrepreneurs who expect us to enable them to have a truly friendly environment, this through this law and with such political will - I doubt that we will achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you. Does Ivan Christmas want to discuss it again? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'm really going to come over again, because I think it's best for me to come up again with such a law when we're talking about promoting foreign direct investment. Let me put it this way: a foreign investor will come when he has better benefits than elsewhere. The first time I listened to the gentleman and he talked about 35% of the lands of Slovenia that we included in the protection area. Lands today for a slightly larger company, if you have seen this possible last week in the case of Slovakia, when they showed in Bratislava how large the surfaces are for new factories, we cannot offer such surfaces in Slovenia, because environmentalists would jump a little or a lot into the air. Second: registering companies with us. I was very pleased to hear that the Minister of Economy said he would shorten the registrations. Thank God that's gonna happen. Taxes. Those who travel to the West, go past Chad and towards Butri and look around at what happened in Boutria with smart politics, cheaper land sales and smaller taxes - big trading companies have arrived, built halls and many people have been hired. And we're just talking about it. Secondly, I think this is the last time I'm talking about prices in Italy. From Trieste to Trevis, the Italian provinces are politically motivated by the fact that in Slovenia we had cheaper fuel than they did, they were granted a permit from the European Union for eight years cheaper fuel or less taxed fuel. We didn't want to hear anything from Italians ten years ago to settle fuel prices between Italy and Slovenia. I would also like to respond to something about local communities. We had a casino in Tolmin eight years ago. We locked her up for the new year 1995/1996, overnight. And now they've awarded two smaller concessions and they're building two new casinos, one in Kobarishka, one in Tolmin. Why eight years off? The foreign money had to withdraw because we wouldn't let it work, and they also said it wouldn't work. This is our policy for foreign direct investment. I hope that one day we'll be met with a little bit of intelligence, but I'm just afraid we'll be paying dearly, just like eight years without gambling, and now two concessions, because that's good now, and then it wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. One last debater, Franz onion. No, no, no. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Lahovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment on a few comments. First of all, as far as public authority is concerned. It is a matter of allowing the possibility of granting public powers, as well as the possibility of withdrawing public powers. The possibility of integration is allowed, it is said, is not commanded, but in accordance with the principle of flexibility is allowed here, but is not excluded. As regards the general debate, which mentioned how Slovenia was not attractive in the past. I agree that the price of labour is an important factor here, as some of you have talked about. Slovenia is at a higher level of development than other transition countries. And from this point of view, investors who make decisions based solely on the price of the labour force are not attractive to them, and I don't think they are interesting to us either, because we want to attract activities of higher added value. As far as the content of the comments is concerned, Mr Bozič mentioned why, at the outset, when the entire flow of foreign direct investment is mentioned, the number of jobs is not mentioned. There are also acquisitions, the purpose of this law is not to encourage the takeover of domestic businesses by foreigners, which would, of course, be absurd to grant subsidies now to someone to take over Mercator or Krka, because there will be a lot of interest in these companies anyway. This is a direct foreign investment in the sense of "greefield investment". And here we have, then we have information on the number of jobs that are being reopened from this title. As far as the Austrian model is concerned, the team to the Ministry and colleague Kovac of the Agency for Economic Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment have somehow reviewed the case. It should be pointed out that this 1994 model of Austria is known, but it is not appropriate because it was created with or based on a specific tax, which is, of course, impossible and not feasible in the current situation of our entry into the EU and within the EU. As regards the general comment on the regions. It should be stressed here that it is not the case that regions, those less developed regions, should be given a higher priority. In the context of the Agency, the subsidy initiatives are, of course, appropriately ranked or it is considered that investors investing in less developed regions have the opportunity to obtain a greater share of the subsidy in the workplace than those investing in Ljubljana. Thus, the weightings exist and clearly come from a logic of more coherent or coherent regional development. In other words, the OECD Slovenia is not a member of the OECD, it is a member of the European Union, Slovenia is not a member or a member of the European Union, but the organisation itself has not adopted a strategy for further enlargement and that is the real reason. There was talk of small and medium-sized enterprises. The purpose of this law is to enable small and medium-sized enterprises or facilitate internationalisation, and this is what this is all about. Large companies, such as Gorenje, which are already very well internationalised, have their own network of economic representations and have fewer problems in doing so. Small and medium-sized enterprises are problematic here, which at source are difficult or difficult to obtain information and for them this entry cost of information is this entry cost of entry into foreign markets significantly higher, sometimes too high. As far as the thesis is concerned, this euphoria, someone was talking about the LDS about euphoria, about the pre-election purpose of this law. The Ministry team can confirm that this law has been in preparation for a long time, and this can also be confirmed at the Chamber of Commerce; in short, this discussion has been going on for a long time. The fact that the law is falling somehow at this time is not part of any planned strategy. I just really want to be adopted as soon as possible - not because the elections are coming up, but because I think it's just a good marriage. In the end, of course, I would like to thank everyone who has discussed for their constructive contribution. I must say that I understood the discussion in this sense that you did not have major substantive comments on the law, that you somehow supported it and that you basically support it. In short, I thank you for this and I hope that you will also materialise this in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is still some time left, and I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it in accordance with Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure? My friend Sok. Please apply; Sok, Irma Pavlinič Krebs and Joseph Jerovšek. Five minutes. Comrade Aloys Sok. So, Ferry Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you very much. So, you say, several Members here have said that it is not true that the developmental differences in Slovenia do not increase. Mr Minister has just said that less developed regions have been given higher priority to allow investors there to benefit from more subsidies. Look, just for a little while, because I don't have much time. The data was published yesterday. Otherwise, there are many unemployed young people under the age of 26, including us. At the end of last year, there were 25,860 and 2% more than the year before. 2% were unemployed, up to 26 years of age. Among them were 24,460 first-time prospectors. That's 12.2% more than a year ago. 12.2% more than a year ago. The highest percentage of youth unemployed was the end of last year in Velenj, 31.4%, and in Trbovje, 31.2. Here we talked about the developmental incentives for Trbovlje, which are supposed to be so well placed under this government, in fact, the data show something else. And the lowest in Sevnica - 21.9. Youth unemployment has increased most in the New Town, where in a year it has risen by 4.5 percentage points to 27.6%. However, worrying is the proportion of first-time job seekers in Murska Sobota, where at the end of December it was almost 30% or if you want, exactly 29.4%. And in New Town 29.3. And so on, I don't read this information. But this, of course, shows exactly what our fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, has found that the strategy that has already been adopted, which has been good, is not being implemented. And that the government itself is talking about the implementation deficit. We have translated this word, this wonderful expression into a division between words and acts. It is said that by means of this law we are now legislating a new five - year period. No one is decisive, at least as far as I have been following the presentations of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament, objected. But we all express ourselves to certain ones, since we have not done what we have already set ourselves. How are we supposed to do this? Clearly, it is said that marriage must be adopted, but from now on it will be different. I cannot conclude otherwise than the opposition Member that this is some form of pre-election action. What is certain in this law is that we will get a new agency, which will have a director or director, as it will be written in both sexes, and which will certainly work. But everything else, of course, is a big question. So I would like to hear another thing because I have been here several times in this National Assembly by LDS Members that we have not - already colleague Kelemin is the principle of this - that we have not sold out "silver coins" in Slovenia. That is to say, I don't even know what this is supposed to mean, because we put our silver in the so-called KAD and SOD, and who's leading it there and how it's going on, we want Members to talk if you give us a chance. I would like, after all, to say that, with all that we have not sold our "silver" - although I do not know where it remains - a million Slovenians have filed their certificates and today, after more than ten years, they have not actually received anything from this address and we have created nothing. This too will probably have to be answered to Slovenian citizens in a short time and tell them what the country is planning to do in this area. I thought it was appropriate to bring this information to my attention. I am experiencing that these developmental differences between regions are increasing. And, of course, I would vote for any solution in this area, which, in the final stage, would mean that we would get - I don't know, we like to talk about Europe at two speeds, but for us who come from rural areas, we are increasingly aware and confident that we are getting Slovenia two speeds: centrally developed part of Slovenia and that robbery, a periphery that is facing all these transition problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I have to argue with the Minister's opinion that there is nothing premeditated in this law. It is true that the law has been in preparation for a very long time and that it brings about the reality that colleague Sok referred to in front of me. Walking economic growth in Slovenia is worrying, given the Baltic and other countries that have recently joined the European Union. We are totally on top of these macroeconomic indicators in terms of economic growth. And this situation dictated action, an up-to-date action by the government. Sometime after the deadlines, the law was being drawn up - I wouldn't mind coming up with a piece of advice two, three years ago and a policy change on the basis of such a law, but that didn't happen. However, it has now come, and at the same time the law on promoting coherent regional development has been removed. This is a situation that shows everything - what is the current strategy within the government, how seriously you are prepared for anything. That's what he's gonna be waving at. It may even take place at the last meeting before the dissolution of the law on coherent regional development. Who, though, will believe that this is not just propaganda? It's just propaganda! And this gap between words and reality is increasing from day to day. I'd even say there's an ideal written here, but the reality is, unfortunately, quite different in our country. And this gap between ideal and reality, which is more present in the poetic world and this is a classic breakthrough, but in everyday life on the ground the reality of a small person is more serious, more critical, more worrying every day. In fact, every day young people have slightly less opportunities, now they will pay tuition for normal education and so on, but I am creating a variety of people who have money, instead of having a small economy, these micro-enterprises start to see in time that these micro-enterprises are carriers of economic growth, and this has not happened. And for that reason, once again, this is a pre-approved document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I have said everything I thought, but I cannot, and I do not want to listen to the disqualifications of my fellow Members from the opposition, that the document before us today is a political bluff. If the political bluff is a debate on corruption and customerism for a few hours, this specific regulation is not only important, necessary, modern, but contributes to coherent regional development, Mr Jervošek. If we read it, if we opened it, we would see that the country will promote regions in one way as investment locations, not only that, but also provide financial incentives for these investments. This is not and cannot be a political bluff, as has never been the political bluff of the economic development strategy, the result of which are adopted budgets; you were against, of course, but the share of funds invested in the economy has increased, Mr Jerovšek. And the share of funds to promote the construction of business zones - you were not here - in 2004, 2006 7.7 billion tolars. It's not a political bluff! These are simple facts, numbers that speak for themselves. Of course, no one here today said that there is no difference in development between regions, so I see all these regulations, all these laws that we have before us, as instruments to reduce them further or those regions that have faced greater problems in the past than others to help them with such measures. And it really is purely sedition, and I, which, in addition to all these very precise rules, am also looking at local acquisitions, of course I cannot agree, but even less with the policy of a party that forms such regulations and which I am a member of, that we want to bluff before the elections. These are important contributions, Mr Jerovšek, and all the regulations we have recently adopted go in the direction of coherent regional development. Why, Mr Jerovšek? Because of the fact that your political party in the constitutional changes that we have made very much, I would say that you did not cooperate with the awake professional eyes of the expert commission that helped us, but you did not participate in the system of the Republic of Slovenia, but you have actively blocked this process and, of course, today you will tell us that we do not want to decentralise this country. This is such a diversion and resentment that we are making a policy to deal with a political bluff, that I cannot bear it peacefully. Mr Jerovšek and please be at least as discreet as possible in your discredits, because I do not consider myself to be an angry man - it hurts me. I think it also affects everyone who tries to deal with such measures at the professional level. And the law on promoting coherent regional development will, of course, see the light of the world if you do not have enough inappropriate comments to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u153	Nothing, no replicas. No, I won't admit it. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No replicas here. [[...]] Mr Jerovšek has been appointed - there is still no reason for the replica. She understood you quite correctly. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Dude, please don't disturb the session! [[...]] Dr. Bernick. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister and escort. Now we have just seen non-democracy in action, but I will not talk about it, I will talk about this bill, which is actually relatively empty. What do you want me to say about him? Otherwise, she has quite a lot of words, like your dear fellow Member has a lot of nice words, she has a soft heart for the government, and she has a hard heart for the opposition, which I don't blame her for, that's her right. But I'm going to say that this marriage is kind of a fence that was prepared to get a soul, but it doesn't say anything about the soul, just like a soulless man. Indeed, this law will not really be enforced for a long time, because one article says that there must be laws, after one year, and at that time, it seems that the government will draw up a new economic strategy or whatever it will be, because the bill and the explanation does not refer to the strategy that our colleague Dr. Bajuk was talking about and now I do not know whether it will be a new strategy or an old one will be corrected and so on. But I went to look at the 2004 budget and there I found a relatively good explanation of what this office was supposed to do to promote investment and what it should do to internationalise our businesses. And it seems strange to me that this is not in here, because it would save us a lot of time when a person is looking at this text and even a person could imagine a little bit more where such a law is, the draft law "passes". The second thing that has disturbed me a little bit is that we're setting up a new agency, because we already have enough of these, and I think we all agree. I also agree that the Chamber of Commerce is not the appropriate body to do so, since it is a para-national civil organisation, it has its objectives, in addition to what is good for the country. In any case, I think we could take a closer look at what is happening in the countries around us. I am personally very well aware of the Irish situation, and there they have done something fantastic, because the agency they set up has been extremely dynamic and has thus turned Ireland from a country of poverty to some kind of prosperity. I think that's all I really wanted to say. I should also mention that the budget, if I read correctly, did not provide for this agency anywhere, nor were any costs foreseen. I don't know how this works, but it looks like it can be arranged if there's a man in the government. Okay, I want a lot of success for this agency or whatever it is, but we're going to be pretty critical of the whole thing and we're going to be watching what and when this thing is going to come to life. Good luck, whether it's election propaganda or not. Nevertheless, we will be careful to see that this was not election propaganda, but something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you. And Franz Ferry Horvath. And then the word to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State! First of all, an observation that will be able to sound immodest, but given that I will reach 43 years of work this year, let me say, all these years I have been engaged in marketing and exports, international economic relations at entrepreneurship, at state level, in the government, in the chamber and in the last 12 years here in Parliament. And all the years here, these last 12 years - those who have been together, colleagues and colleagues, either primarily on the Committee on the Economy or otherwise, especially on budgets, I have also warned colleagues and colleagues from the Group that the State of Slovenia, in particular the Government, is too offensive in the field of international marketing. And to say now that this is a pre-election move, it is going to be, colleagues and colleagues, or for the complete ignorance of things - sorry, but it is a fact - or it is a matter of politics, when you now read to the minister who has barely begun to work, and you should commend him for giving this in this short period of time for one of the priorities to come with this bill to the National Assembly. That's why, of course, I'm going to support the marriage. You say that the strategy does not come true, that is why this law is not adopted. We mix apples and pears or the causes and consequences. The strategy is well set, the objectives are well set, but the resources in the budget and the organisation and work of the government or individual departments - and I do not want to do anything wrong - have not followed this fully so that these objectives can be achieved. Next. The entry into the European Union is an extremely important argument, which is also cited by the explanation. We forget that we will no longer have an impact on trade policy, to end even those free trade agreements that we had with the countries and where it then increased on the basis of this exports and so on. The market will be bigger in the European Union, 450 million inhabitants, but also competition will be much greater, as everyone will start this market: both the member states and also third countries. Next. The funds in the next two budgets, this year and the future, are indeed set and cannot be increased. In the coming years, I am confident that funds for these purposes will need to be increased. In particular, what has so far been a drawback to improve border organisation: and between government departments, between various agencies and institutions in the government, as well as with economic institutions, chambers and other organisations. Given that we are small, we have little resources, little personnel, the connection is so much more necessary. And in this I see the advantage and the main purpose of this law. Around the agency itself and its organisation and similar matters we will be able to discuss further, in the next step, in the second reading, but this is not my main problem today when we talk about the objectives and the concept of the law. You are talking about a medium and small economy, which is also why there is a need to increase government and state activity in this area, because it has been proven, look at the data that there is a small economy, a craftsman and so on, despite quality production, they are disproportionately involved in exports and in international economic relations, which is normal because they are themselves fragmented, they do not have to participate actively in the international market. It's also a regional development issue. I am sure that the quality of greater foreign investment - not only for the acquisition of good companies, but especially for the real foreign investment, because the intention of this law - will also be more effective at the national level and to support businesses, so that this will also help with coherent regional development. The fact is today that most less developed regions are also weak in export, except for exceptions - where there are some strong exporters. And if we want to improve things in this area too, it will be possible to improve through this law, I am sure of that. Finally, look, colleagues and colleagues, comparisons that are nicely given here by some in the material, we also know others how and what other countries are doing. My colleague Bernik mentioned the case of Ireland, consider the case of Austria, Finland and a number of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you. I also give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Dr. Lahovnik. If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the general debate. Before I asked who was here, who wanted to discuss it, you answered, I wrote it down, I gave my word to everyone. Procedurally. He had the first one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u158	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that, given the interestingness of the debate and the urgency of extending the debate by one hour. You have this opportunity to do it, and now - the decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u159	Such a proposal may be made by the chairpersons in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I note, however, that almost half of you were not present at the time of the debate here in the Chamber and it is now just, just a moment, seven minutes for the debate and then we are moving on to the vote. Procedurally, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u160	Dear Vice President. I first proposed procedurally, raised my hand, you gave your word to another Member - you have already violated the rules of procedure. Another time. I've already noticed exactly when I checked in. Mr Sok first applied and then Mrs Irma, then the second one, you gave Jerovšku the floor earlier when he was mentioned, you did not wish to approve the replicas. According to what rule of the Rules of Procedure did you not wish to grant him replicas? No! No! He's got a right, he hasn't even used his time, five minutes you gave him. You simply use the same methods as Mrs Krebs and try to close or break the rules of procedure in any way by trying to shut the opposition's mouth and not allow him to replicate it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if he has the right. This is improper leadership and I protest against such and demand that you also give your word to Mr Jerovšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u161	I take to heart what you've given me. But I don't take it into account that I broke the rules of procedure. Comrade Jerovšek wanted to polynomise, but he had no reason to replicate. Comrade Petan, you had no reason to replicate, so I don't think I broke the rules of procedure. But you can also ask the business commission. Procedurally, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Look, everything that's going on right now is completely unnecessary. When we started, it was seven minutes and a few more seconds. If we were to split up when the two of us responded to the word, you'd end up fine, and there wouldn't be any problem, no argument, no bad will, nothing. You're the only ones who've been keeping track of the weather. You've already given what's right, and now there's still left, and we'd like to ask if anyone else wants a word because there's still time, and we'd like to get this over with. But now we're all in a bad mood, you're looking at us strangely, we're looking at you strangely. Why? But if it's not necessary, if we still have time. And that's my procedural proposal. Allow me to take that time that was supposed to be announced to take advantage of it. Now I'm going to say something else because I have a word on this announced time. You force us to take a minute of reserve, because we never know if we can even respond to any replica, the normal one that you, of course, allow or not, because that's what's going on at this time. And now it's seven minutes, and we can just wrap it up with some replica or give us two a word. It would take me a minute to say what I wanted to say, because Mrs Pavlinič has made the wrong allegations, and we would have made a good use of the time, and we would have concluded the matter normally. But that's not how we are, so it's a bad will, because it's because I'm not going to tell us too badly that you're not going to be offended, because you're taking our word, you're doing bad will with such guidance when there's no need, and the time has been at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your comments and your comments. However, in all the practice so far, we have guided or divided that additional time since the first paragraph of Article 71 to call on who else wants to debate, to record the names and to give the floor, first after five minutes and no one else has applied for the debate. If someone isn't in the hall at the time, then he comes in and wants to talk about it, I'm sorry. I will put Janez Drobnič's procedural proposal to the vote. Does the National Assembly agree to extend the debate by 30 minutes? Please note, this procedural proposal will be put to the vote. Let's take a look at your voting devices. We are voting on this procedural proposal. There are 49 of us present, 13 votes against 35. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] The procedural proposal has not been adopted. This concludes the general debate on this bill. There's really not gonna be a replica of that. Thank you very much. At 6:40, we move to the next item, these are the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u164	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First, we're going to break 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. In accordance with the proposal of Bogomir Zammernik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mag. Anton Ropa on the question of the Ambassador to Bogomir Zammernik, which reads: How will the government of the Republic of Slovenia in reverberating cases that have recently appeared in public [[Zbilski Gaj affair]] "ensure equality before the law for all citizens?" We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 18 Members and Members voted against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In line with Dr. Andrey Bajuk's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andre Bajuk about the implementation of the requirements of the Court of Auditors concerning Durs and the Information Centre." Vote explanation, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. The question I have raised to the Prime Minister is very simple. The decisions of the Constitutional Court under our legislation are only final. He was responsible for some of the audits for 2002, in fact everything was linked to the final account for 2001. He also responded and received an additional opinion from the Secretary-General, who said - and this is on the tape and you have all heard - that the Prime Minister of the Government's IT centre is innocent. Then the Prime Minister allowed himself to accuse me of being a judge. In fact, the judgment or accusation and the final opinion were given by the Court of Auditors, which is the Court, and the Government has no other than to respect this law. I think that not only is the subject for discussion, it should be the subject of interpretation to Mr President, because in fact the law has only one option - it must be respected. And these accusations that we are judges, just because we ask why Mr. Prime Minister doesn't respect the law while at the same time his secretary-general in his presence permits himself and says that someone is innocent, isn't this a delusion of the first kind? We demand this debate because I think it must come to some final understanding of what it is, and that we will put an end to such a diversion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I certainly strongly support my fellow Member in this regard. I myself have done a lot of work, including through the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, which I am a member of, and also through other lines with these affairs in the CVI and I know them, and I know what has happened, billions of money have been lost there, even after unnecessary, many of them probably have never found out the actual situation, even the Court of Auditors' report has not experienced its final proposal, even on request, when you are always so eager to refer to the findings of the Court of Auditors as was the case here with my investigative commission. But I will complete this and the report will be worse than it was in the proposed form for you. I'll take into account the Court of Auditors' opinion. But this time you don't pay attention to him. And the Court of Auditors is nice or the President himself has suggested to the Government that the director of the CVI should discharge his functions, because of all the violations he has committed as an authorised person, but apparently, the authorities are obviously so self-protected, so arrogant, humiliating and also moving, feel the power that such things do not simply need to be debated. I expect you to support this proposal, so that this matter will be clarified, because you yourself are stating that you are interested, that all the affairs arising from corruption and other matters will be clarified, I expect that you will, otherwise you have now rejected the proposal to clarify matters and affairs concerning the Gajci Gaj. Why don't you want to discuss this, of course, is another question. Is it because you are yourself some of the colleagues of the LDS involved here or why? I propose or support this proposal to clear this matter up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 21 Members and Members voted against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with Jožet Tanka's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for regional development, mag. Zdenke Kovač on the question of the mission, Jože Tanka, which reads: "How funds will be used for coherent regional development between individual regions". Mr. Tanko's explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is, when there is talk about regional development, we have all the mouthfuls of big words that we are able to teach everything how these things should happen. However, one law on regional development was rejected at our previous meeting, and today or at this meeting, we have withdrawn another. However, as a result of the failure to implement the existing law, regional disparities between regions and areas, and also within the areas of these regional areas that are being created, are increasing, showing that the policy pursued by the State in the area of regional development does not correspond. The fact is that all the laws we have adopted so far are the last ones that have been adopted and the one that I propose is focused primarily on policy, how resources will be distributed according to the population and so on, not according to some other criteria. It is a fact that a debate must be held in this area that would lead to the creation of certain criteria and other matters. I think it is time that this is also being discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u171	I do not think we should vote on this proposal. However, in order for the opposition not to appear to be proposing something, and we reject it, it is necessary to make very clear what Mr Tanko has really said. Thank you for your word. I will not say that I am not satisfied with the answer only when the Member is not satisfied with the answer, according to an article that talks about the debate being held, his initiative can be put to the vote. He says that he is not dissatisfied with the answer, but nevertheless suggests that we do, please kindly, this is some bad practice, some way that cannot be productive for the national assembly, that it is simply a matter of debate, despite the fact that the answer was given at the meeting and that the Member is satisfied with it. That's what it says here, and it's a authentic document or a document or whatever I got from Lotus Notees when I printed it. Therefore, the President, I propose that, however, it is incontrovertible to find that the point proposed by Mr Tanko, which he has also justified today, should be prepared and discussed, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda. Not about what you asked the Minister without a wallet under your questions. I therefore propose that you chair to determine whether this proposal meets the requirements for voting on it at all. In general, however, I wanted to say that before we go to the vote on such issues, this should be prepared sooner, because at each meeting, the same thing is happening to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik, I am merely trying to explain procedurally that there will be no evidence that we are not voting in accordance with the rules of procedure of these proposals. 246. Article talks about this and says: "If the Member is not satisfied with the reply he received at the meeting, he may request an additional reply. The explanation of the Member's request to complete the reply shall not take more than two minutes and the reply of the Prime Minister or Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall be completed no more than three minutes." And then the second paragraph: "On a proposal from the Member who has asked the question, the National Assembly may decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Government or the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion." If the second paragraph discusses the Member's satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the question, but on the proposal of the Member who raised the question, the State Assembly may decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Government or the Minister. I think we will make a decision on the proposal for this Decision. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you, Vice President. I was in the hall at the time, and there weren't many of us when Comrade Tanko called twice on this subject. He may have really started his second performance, the third performance, that when he was just justifying the argument that a general debate was being held, but from his second performance it was clear that he was not satisfied with the Minister's reply. And I will support the proposal of colleague Tank. Why? The allocation of funds in the area of regional development will, in my view, become a very sensitive political theme in Slovenia. I have a very specific experience. One of the elements of regional development is the call for a large amount of money in the coming years for tourist destinations in Slovenia. One of the invitations is in the process. Dr. Lakhovnik answered that question yesterday. It simply happened that an arbitral decision was taken and, as one of the important arguments, it was accepted that certain municipalities were allowed to run, but not for others, or for companies located in these areas. I am talking about the municipality of Cerkno, Idrija, Železniki, Cerklje na Gorenjska, Kamnik, Škofja Loka as well as Semič or maybe Mozirje. I asked around today. That answer I got yesterday, I'm afraid, doesn't hold. Unfortunately, some companies that are top-notch companies in the field of tourism will not be able to sign up for your invitation. And the debate proposed by my colleague Tanko is still well founded, and I will support his proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It's really a little unfair, Mr. Minister, of course I'd like to argue with you because you talked to him and talked to him, and you told him that it wasn't true what he said yesterday. Unfortunately, at this point, he can't even discuss it, so please really explain your voice. It is not related to my assessment of the decision on this decision to the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of a Member or a Member with an answer. This is not how the services explain this article, and if the dispute continues, I think it is right for the business commission to decide. In the second paragraph of this Article, the doctrine is clear and does not condition in one way satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the question. That's how I understand. We can have the business committee interpret this. Anyone else? Mr Jerovšek would like to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you very much. With regard to this Institute of Rules of Procedure, it would be time for the Tons to grow up in Tone and not to challenge this Institute. Indeed, it is necessary to understand from the content of the debate the questioner whether he was satisfied or not satisfied with the answer. The Minister spoke about everything else, only about the allocation of funds for coherent regional development. As this is an extremely painful topic for the government coalition, as nothing has moved in this area, regional differences are increasing. Instead of being interested in forcing the government to start moving something in this area to start pursuing a policy of equitable regional development and promoting this development, you are against it. I also have no doubt that in this vote you will also show that you are against, in terms of what Mr Vice-President said in the preceding paragraph, when protesting a violation of the Rules of Procedure, he said, "I am aware, but we will violate the Rules of Procedure." So you will also be here - you are aware that everything may not be all right in this area, but you are opposed to this being discussed in this House of State. You have withdrawn the law on promoting coherent regional development because you can no longer market it as a pre-election propaganda, because there has been virtually nothing done in this area for five years. We have asked the question precisely because there is such a strong stalemate in this area, because the differences are increasing because the situation is getting worse every day, and you put your head in the sand and say you will vote against it. I suggest we get real this time. Most Members come from such regions, including the Vice-President who has previously opposed Koroška, who may be the most affected area. I therefore propose that we vote on this point to hold a thorough debate at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Third time please, honourable Members of the opposition, Mr Kelemina and Mr Jerovšek, you are now reiterating the eclectic violation of the rules of procedure to us who are presiding. Mr Kelemina made it clear earlier that Mr Pohorec is in violation of the rules of procedure as I always do. Please do not insult me. These are insults, I take it as an insult and a severe conviction. I am not in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I stress, and Mr Pohorec is not in breach of it. When we discussed whether business is good or not, I interpreted the Rules of Procedure by voting on the decision. This is not a violation of the rules of procedure. If someone is not satisfied with this, the Rules of Procedure may require the decision of the business commission on this matter. My assessment is that the decision is proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we will decide on it. Mr. Butolen, your explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. I will not support this proposal for a simple reason. We voted yesterday on the agenda. The agenda for this meeting was first of all a point on coherent regional development or law. The vote was [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr Jerovšek, I was silent when you spoke, and I would ask that you abstain once too. The vote was 35 to 27. Eight members of the ruling coalition voted in favour of the agenda. If you gentlemen of the opposition who have 40 votes in this House [[indigestion in the hall]] I was walking 41, I was wrong! [[...]] So if we went to work and voted yesterday, we would be discussing 8 hours of regional development tomorrow, a specific law, i.e. the law in the first reading, and the law would still be adopted this year. Now they propose that we discuss something one day, and there will be no conclusion at the end. Such a vote is, of course, pointless. And I really call for you to come to work even when you talk about specific things, not just when you're pounding [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u178	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. The explanations of vote are also intended to explain our vote, please do not polymerise with each other, we do not have this right and do not really ask for support or for or against this proposal. Mr. Petan's explanation for the voice. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this proposal. As for when we can discuss or discuss these matters, let me remind you that even at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, we from the opposition had to hold a conclusion that you could even vote because half of you were lacking in respect for your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u180	Mr. Petan, I'm warning you, please talk about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u181	Yeah, thanks for the comment. As far as this vote is concerned, that is why we will vote for it, and I would also like to remind someone why I think it is right to vote, because if Mr Tanko said, "I will not say I am not satisfied," that is, he denied twice. It's the same thing as in mathematics minus one to the minus one, minus one to the minus one is still minus one, so it's still not satisfied. So we understand each other. The decision, Madam Vice-President, to allow us to decide, was perfectly correct and I will vote in favour of such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u182	Once again, I ask that we really limit ourselves to explaining our vote to what we are going to vote on. Mr. Sok has an explanation for the vote. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. I would not have responded at all to this debate, but this debate by fellow Member Butolen is an interesting force. He is a mathematician by profession and calculated that the opposition has a majority in this House and that the opposition is guilty that some law was not introduced into the agenda. Which is too much, but it's too much. So if someone decided yesterday that the law on coherent regional development is not on the agenda, then of course you have contributed to it by those who have a majority and therefore have authority in this national assembly. However, as for Mr Butolen, I think it would be good to discuss this proposal and that the water supply in Haloza will be sooner if we discuss it than if we do not discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u184	It doesn't matter if I warn you this point isn't meant for controversy, please. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u185	I'll support the proposal. See, there are also strange things happening at the Ministry of the Economy to support or support the development of these European Union funding projects only those that are, are tourist destinations, only those that are developed. We are already seeing an increase in differences between regions, and now the Ministry of Economy has decided to finance only four or five projects without any criteria. Among these, you get only those who promote development in already highly developed regions. To avoid such initiatives and such solutions, it is good for the entire government to listen so as not to make such mistakes. That is why I support this debate, not only because of the regionalisation project as a whole, but also because of the consequences of the adoption of other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Ashewich's explanation for the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I will vote against it for reasons already explained by Mr Butolen. Such a debate does not mean anything. However, I explain my voice to ask Mr Drobnič whether he thinks Lendava, where the Termes of Lendava will run, or Posavje, where the Cateks will run, whether the Atomic Spas are the most developed regions in Slovenia. It is necessary to read why these calls are, and then it is clear who can run and who can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, with 22 Members and Members voting against 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I don't have a problem if you guys are talking. I am afraid that we will continue to vote on the amendments and may need a little more attention. I'm asking you to be a little more careful. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats by 10a. Article 1(2) We're voting 10a. Article 1 There are 67 of us present, 41 Members and Members voted against 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the same motioners to Article 12. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 51 Members and Members voted against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are also voting on the amendment of the Ambassador of Mag. Andrej Visiak, Article 61. I interrupt the vote, the explanation of vote, Mr Drobnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u189	I will support this amendment. This amendment is somehow identical, as we have also tabled in New Slovenia and opens up an increase in public sector employment. If we look at a comparative study on how the quota system is applied in most European countries, then we can find that most countries decide that it is allocated to the public sector and is more binding. There are greater burdens. Less or less for the market sector. This initiative is therefore logical and even more consistent with some general orientation within the European Union. Just what the government has shown as regards representation, the employment of people with disabilities in the public and private sectors, shows that the public sector, as far as this is concerned, is underserved, and as far as the market sector is concerned, is actually burdened more than the public sector. Therefore, it is logical, reasonable and necessary to set this higher quota for the public sector. This will at least open up the possibility of hiring those 20,000 unemployed persons, at least a little of which will certainly not help to alleviate the pressures. If we want to be a country that also advocates equality of access to employment in practice, then this amendment needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We move to the vote on the amendment of Comrade Visiak. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. May I have the Undersecretary of State, Mrs. Tutta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you very much. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government proposes that the third treatment of the law be carried out at that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, consider the third reading at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if more than a third of the Members present oppose me. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 53 Members and Members voted against 11. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 21.05.2004, after the end of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the proposed amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a law on the public use of Slovenian - the first hearing is suitable for further consideration." Proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian - the first reading is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of voice. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party because we believe it is necessary and important. Despite the need for some adjustments, because in many segments the linguists generally played with Slovenian language so that we got quite a few expressions that somehow do not talk about actual things, but somehow do a descriptive thing, when, for example, olive oil, because the linguists do not know that olives are not crossed, but olives and therefore should be olive oil. We expect in a short time that we will also have apple vinegar instead of apple vinegar and something like that. I think it would be good if such matters were also introduced into the law, so that certain linguists would not be allowed to croatianise the Slovenian language, as some Crotovovite do. Otherwise, it's one more time. The Slovenian national party will support this law, and individual amendments will certainly be needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to talk anymore. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 54 Members and Members voted against 8. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Today, we continue with the last part of the 6th agenda, which is the first to consider the proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u195	On behalf of the Group of Members, thank you very much, Madam President. In my debate, I think I have clearly explained how this law is in essence contrary to the strategy adopted by this same government for the development of the economy of the Republic of Slovenia. To actually go to just one marginal point and keep quiet about the key things. As a whole, however, the government is silent about the real problems facing our economy. The fact is, we will not oppose the law in the hope and full belief that there will be an opportunity to change certain fundamental errors. The main mistake of this law is that it actually regulates nothing, but only says how and when the minister may arrange this with some five-year programmes in the future to completely erase itself from the process of solving problems, the common problems of Slovenia, this National Assembly, is a position that we will never accept in New Slovenia. This National Assembly must never again allow the executive branch to do things on its own and answer itself and not come to this National Assembly to receive the instructions it must receive in parliamentary democracy. This marriage has this fundamental flaw, and I hope we can save it. Otherwise, it is unnecessary because it will not finally solve any problem, the essential ones facing our economy. What this government is doing to conceal and deny all the problems that everyone in Slovenia, who wants to think about them, is clear, is sad, but, as I said, we are used to it. This government is just the way it is. It'll be over soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u197	I will support the bill because it continues to be a continuation of what has allowed Slovenia to build on its economic foundations after its independence. The involvement of the Slovenian economy in international flows was the one that allowed Slovenians to be reoriented quickly after independence as regards economic flows from abroad. Of course, this business of the economy is limited under the modern conditions of Slovenian membership in the European Union. It must be subject to a certain standard. And this regulation of modern business with an internationally oriented economy brings this proposal to the law and is therefore to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've already called on this law once today. I have read some data on unemployment, which is a very acute problem in the Republic of Slovenia, and this data even increases. This law, as it is written, does not actually save anything at this time. See, Article 21 states that the government will only adopt the sub-legislative acts referred to in Articles 5 and 10 one year after the entry into force of this Act. It is said that what requires the government to adopt an investment programme and to adopt a programme to promote the internationalisation of businesses will not be for another year. We are saying something we accept, and there is actually a doubt here that we are not accepting something because of the elections. Such a way is certainly a wrong approach to solving what the government itself recognises when it says it is going to meet its implementation deficit strategy. This is the wrong approach. We in New Slovenia call this a gap between words and actions. As the President, Dr. Bajuk, has said, we will not oppose the law, but we will monitor what will happen in this area, and as the opposition, of course, we will also point to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group will support the draft law, or the proposal for a decision as proposed, on the grounds that it is better now than never. We too believe that we would have needed such a law sooner, but now he has come to the parliamentary bench and we will support him today in order to be ready as soon as possible. I agree that it's pre-election law because they're in the fall elections. And all we're going to accept from now on is pre-election law. For the last time in an extraordinary session of your eight, and those who are still ready for an extraordinary session, they are all pre-election propaganda! Now let's take this! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u203	Pre-election law up or down. All the things that have happened since the first day since the election, everything is pre-eminent. And what's more, I don't think that's necessary. But there is something that needs to be learned: What kind of laws are coming. Recently, there have been three or four laws that have the character of a resolution, a general debate that is nothing tangible. If we want to internationalise our companies or increase investment, both fundamental and I do not know what legislation should change in other areas. What we've actually accepted. The Labour Relations Act was an opportunity, and then the Company Act, the Securities Act, would have been a big deal. That's where things stay rigid. And that means contributing to the development or internationalisation or investing abroad in our area. Since the government does not have the right answers, it offers such mists. In the basic acts, we should, in the basic laws. Of course, for a minister this is a little funny, he smiles, but good, it's kind of a bait for you. It was the same with regard to entrepreneurship. How entrepreneurship will develop in us - with some passwords. No, absolutely not like that. This law is unnecessary. He has no power not to oppose and support him. It is important whether the government really wants to do so and then it will do so, either by such a law or without such a law. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-18-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Can we move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision? [[Yeah.]] If anyone wants to vote, please take his place, because we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is an appropriate basis. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 46 Members and Members voted against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you all very much for your cooperation! I am adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
