ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good day to you all. I am opening the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Michael Brejc, Ivan Kebrič and Janko Weber from 13 a.m. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Mr Anton Ropa at the 1st point, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at all points of the agenda, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at the 2nd point, the Ombudsman at the 24th point and representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic and representatives of the Council of Justice at the 56th item of the agenda. We will now move on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received with reference to 2.7.2004. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on the ratification of the air services agreement and the functioning of the facilities and facilities provided and managed by Eurocontrol at the Central European Air Traffic Control Centre in the upper airspace. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, no, no. Does the motioner want to further explain the reasons? Not at all. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. Did we check the voting devices? We are. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. With regard to the agenda ahead of us [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u3	Mr. Cuckoo, I'm sorry, maybe you weren't paying attention. We are now ahead of the decision to withdraw the item from the agenda. I thought there was something wrong with the voting device. It's up to us to decide. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 53 Members and Members voted against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda should be extended to include points such as the resignation of the President of the National Assembly and the election of the President of the National Assembly. Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? They have the opportunity to present their position for up to 3 minutes. No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a decision on individual enlargement proposals. I am therefore putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by a point of contact with the resignation of the President of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 66 Members and Members voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this item as an A1 item of the agenda. The meeting shall be held immediately after the agenda has been set. I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by the election of the President of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 64 Members and Members voted against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as B1 item of the agenda on Monday 12.07.2004 at 7 p.m. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposes that the agenda should be extended to take note of the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Michael Brejc, and the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a decision on individual proposals for extending the agenda. We're voting. First of all, on the proposal to take note of the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. There are 68 present, 66 Members and Members voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will treat this item as a C1 item of the agenda today after the end of the A1 item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 67 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as the C1 item of the agenda on Monday 12.07.2004 after the end of the B1 item. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law supplementing the law on amendments and additions to the law on road transport - an urgent procedure and a proposal for a law supplementing the law amending the law, amending and supplementing the law on rail transport - an urgent procedure. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a decision on individual proposals for extending the agenda. First of all, I am putting to the vote a proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law supplementing the law on amendments and additions to the law on road transport - an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 73 of us present, 53 Members and Members voted in favour, against 7. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider this item as the 47th item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law amending the law, amending and supplementing the law on rail transport - an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 56 Members and Members voted against 8. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item as 47.b. the agenda item. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and today's amendments. We're voting! We're in the vote, Mr. Sugar. There's 62 of us in attendance, and there's been a vote. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u4	I'm sorry. I object. Before you went to the vote, I raised my hand high.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u5	We will re-vote the agenda in full. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u6	Madam President, let me explain now what I wanted to explain before the previous vote. Indeed, the agenda is once again so contrary to the demands of the labour inspectorate, contrary to normal democratic procedures. In fact, Monday the meeting will take place by 1:00 a.m. on Tuesday at midnight, on Wednesday, expected to be four o'clock in the morning, Thursday, expected to be one o'clock in the morning. I don't understand the emergency situation in this country that we're gonna be working all night. This is the first time that we have objected to such a timetable. And secondly, we have the same-sex partnership law. Entering the hearing, general discussion. Gentlemen, you know very well that this term will have nothing to do with this law. However, in your previous reference to the June session, you rejected the law on coherent regional development, since it is impossible to adopt it in this mandate. Nor is such acceptance, and so is misdirection and different criteria acceptable to us. Not to mention a very important point, the investigation panel's report on Friday and the electricity will, of course, be dealt with at night, somewhere between midnight and 4:00 a.m. This is also an interesting location of such important agenda items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I do not intend to comment on the readings, of course, and your parliamentary group could also propose a withdrawal point by 12 noon yesterday and attend the College of the President of the National Assembly to discuss this. We are moving on to a decision on the Procedural proposal, Mr Jelinčič, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u8	Madam Vice-President, I do not think it is fair for you to say that this Group of Members could attend the College. Our Group of Members is not attending the College either because of the attitude you are showing today. It's a totally ignorant attitude towards the complete opposition. This is about you violating all possible laws and regulations, regulations and orders and everything. You're cheering on everything! You don't care what a certain legal service tells you what the inspections do to you, you'll do it your way, and how that works for you. I think it's just bullshit, which is what happens in the National Assembly. And now we're gonna be working here all night! Please! Please, what are you doing here? I mean, that's I don't know, well, whether you remind me of the early times or Stalin's communism or Hitler's national socialism. [[...]] [[...]] That's how you work here! And then, after all, does it really have to look like that now that the ship is sinking, you have to make all the rats run away and scatter everything else in the end. Because, after all, we cannot work properly in such situations. And if we do bad work, then the next call will have to correct a multitude of mistakes. We better not make mistakes or make mistakes like making mistakes and shit. I would therefore appeal to you to reconvene the College of the President of the National Assembly, find some sobriety in your political groups and decide on some normal way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda as a whole, along with the changes we have adopted. We're voting. There are 73 of us present, 43 Members and Members voted against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th meeting of the assembly has been set. We are moving on to the A1 DOT OF THE DAY - ANNOUNCER OF THE RESISTANCE STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION. The President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, made a written declaration of resignation on 7.7.2004. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will explain his resignation. Mr. Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me just a few brief and simple words of glory. I entered this most important hall of Slovenian political life for the first time as a Member in the spring of 1990, after the first democratic elections and then was elected to the National Assembly three more times. I was thus given the honour and responsibility of working with many of you to establish a independent Slovenian state, to develop it, and also to implement it in the international community, which we crowned with the entry into the European Union and NATO. Allow me, on this occasion, to express great gratitude to the people, especially my Goricans and Goricians, who entrusted me with this great task. In the last term, you trusted me, colleagues and colleagues, to lead the National Assembly. For that, I sincerely thank you. I tried to do my job as best I could. At the end of the day, all I want to say is that every time I spoke in our name and in your common name, I was overwhelmed by feelings of great pride. As you know, I am leaving for another job, and I am taking with me the most important of all the impressions and teachings of these fourteen exciting years, and that is that politics is primarily not so much a view of things, but first the relationship with people. To all of you, my dear colleagues and friends, I wish a great deal of success in your further political work for our common good, and I also wish you, you and everyone you love, much happiness in your personal life. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u11	In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, I note that the assembly was informed of the following finding: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Borut Pahor made a declaration of resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 7.7.2004 and that, as of today, he shall cease to serve as President of the National Assembly. Dear colleague Borut, distinguished fellow Member and Members! Allow me, of course, from this privileged city on behalf of all of you and all of us to thank my colleague Borut Pahor for his work, which has certainly left a mark in this house in these four years. I think that we can all agree together that these four years have also been, thanks to him, many times as our electorate and electorate most wanted. Mr Borut, thank you very much for working with us. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Since the President of the National Assembly has resigned, I inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure, he is replaced by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Valentin Pohorec. At the same time, I inform you of the agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the Assembly that qualified candidates for the President of the Assembly may submit to the Vice-President of the Assembly Valentin Pohorc by Monday, 12.7.2004 – 12 noon. In so doing, I would like to inform you that, subject to the reasonable application of Article 46 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, each Member may grant his support only to one candidate for the President of the National Assembly, and that a group of Members proposing a candidate for the President of the National Assembly must also submit to the Candidates a statement of acceptance. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we move on to the C1 DOT OF THE DAY - ON THE RESISTANCE REPORT OF THE SUB-PRESENTATIVE OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION. On 8.7.2004, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Michael Brejc, delivered a written statement of resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, I note that the assembly was informed of the following finding: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Dr. Michael Brejc made a statement of access from the functions of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore, as of today, he ceases to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I would also like to thank the honourable fellow Vice-President, although he is not among us today, for his work and his cooperation with the post he performed. Qualified candidates for the vice-president of the assembly may submit the nominations to the Vice-President of the assembly, Valentin Pohorc, by Monday 12.7.2004 until 12 noon. In so doing, I would like to inform you that, subject to the reasonable application of Article 46 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, each Member may grant his support only to one candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly and that a group of Members proposing a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly must also submit to the Candidate's Office a statement that he agrees with the candidacy. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're crossing 2. It's for a re-decision on the Road Traffic Safety Act. At its 3rd extraordinary meeting on 24.6.2004, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on road safety. Between us, I very much welcome Mr Ivan Bukovac, a member of the Council of State. And I invite him to the word to explain the demand of the state council. Mr. Bukovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u12	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of the Government! There was so much trouble among the people that they suggested that the law should be changed in the first reading so that there would no longer be unwanted traffic on the road with vehicles that are unregistered, driven by eight-year-old boys, 10-year-old boys and endangering the lives of living people there. I come from the fact that one day there were 25 vehicles listed outside the school, unregistered, and, of course, not a proper ride. The point is that this article changes so much that these vehicles can be withdrawn that they can then also return to the owner if they have every opportunity to register the vehicle. True, Article 239 of this Law says that they can be eliminated. But what does that mean for us, in our case. It's about a cop stopping a vehicle, removing it, writing down his number, which he usually has, because he usually has nothing on him, and when a cop leaves, driving around calmly again, filing a misdemeanor judge doesn't work, because in a court of law, it's not easy to solve it because the burden of a judge is huge. In the end, of course, it goes to the basket and these are people who are not actually subject to any sanctions. If we want this country to operate legally, we propose that this article should be inserted in. Otherwise, some unfair conduct will continue for those who have all the driving permits. If I can only add by this law that a penalty of 50 kilometers more to drive a vehicle if I say from Muljava to Ivančno, you can see a limit of 40 meters, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] We were driven down this road, more than 50 faster. [[...]] That's what they say. We should all get permission. If I also go to see that similar things are happening elsewhere, that the law is inconclusive and that the police in fact do not have the ability to implement, that only the exclusion is too small and that is why we are proposing to the national assembly that this law is not supported, that it be redesigned in a new way and that it will be redesigned so that road safety is normally ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Between us, I warmly welcome the Minister and the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I invite him to explain his opinion as a representative of the Government that is proposing the law. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Tonight, two young lives were extinguished on our roads, a total of 132 this year or, according to last year's same day, 10% more. So the situation on our roads is not good, it has deteriorated this year. The government, as you know, had already adopted a national road safety programme in 2000 and this National Assembly in 2002. This national programme and its implementation contributed in many ways to improving road safety in 2002 and 2003, when the number of deaths on our roads decreased by 10% in 2003, for example. This year or already in last year, the government has reactively reacted to the transport security situation of the country by submitting a new comprehensive road safety law already adopted by the National Assembly. This law has many tools to bring Slovenia closer to the European security average, to reduce the main causes of traffic accidents on our roads. That's too much speed, too much alcohol, too many young drivers. This is therefore a systematic comprehensive approach to addressing the causes of the deterioration or improvement of the security situation. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot in any way support the veto tabled by the Council of State because of the issue already settled in the legislation, which is perfectly well regulated in the applicable law on offences and in the new law on offences which has entered into force since 1.1.2005. In both cases, in both laws, the issue of seizure and seizure of items is regulated in an appropriate manner. Therefore, there is absolutely no need to prevent the adoption of a system-wide law with a comprehensive programme of measures to improve transport safety in the country, with unnecessary regulation, the additional regulation of the subject of seizure of items, the seizure of technically non-executive vehicles already regulated in the legislation. Not only is it regulated, and there is a case-law on this, but there is a judge's decision on the seizure and destruction of a technically defective vehicle. The police recently issued guidelines, very strong guidance to all police administrations, all police units, that police officers are consistently implementing legislation on control and also on the proposals of judges for infringements of technically defective vehicles or unregistered vehicles due to the events we have dealt with. I have also met with the Minister of Justice in this regard in particular, and I have informed her of the police guidelines under the current legislation, as well as the police practice, to monitor and take consistent action in cases of unregistered vehicles and vehicles with deficiencies, as regards either steering mechanisms or braking mechanisms or something else. The Minister of Justice and I have reached an agreement that it is also necessary to make a recommendation to the judges for offences. In order to give priority to these issues and to decide in a way that has already been decided by the Judge for Offences, which means, in the case of a vehicle not registered, a vehicle which poses a risk to participants in traffic to take a decision on seizure. In the event that the cost of selling exceeds the cost or value of the vehicle, the destruction of such a vehicle shall also be determined. Such a practice will be fully sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you do not support the veto. I suggest that by your decision you contribute to better traffic safety on our roads. And I also suggest that you do not fall for the claims that have recently emerged that the fines laid down by this law go beyond fines in some European countries. That's just not true. And if there is an opportunity, I will later document this with detailed information on this in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We will also hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Bogomir Vnučec will present to us the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Council of State has returned the law to our decision-making process and will have to decide again. We hope that we will decide on the basis of arguments and not on the basis of the need to compete with the State Council. In the parliamentary group, we believe that road traffic in Slovenia is not well regulated, not in terms of safety, not in terms of environmental impacts. The new transport law does not address the causes, but continues and exacerbates the failed policy of repression, which mainly punishes the economically weak. Instead of preventing and raising road transport issues, we only resort to raising penalties. The only light exception can be seen in changes to the possibility of conducting a driving test at 16 and a half years of age, with a one-year trial period accompanied by someone who has had a long exam. On the other hand, instead of focusing on the causes of the poor road traffic situation, the proposed amendments to the law rely solely on abnormally high penalties, which already achieve or exceed the guaranteed monthly wage for minor offences. First, the minister said not to sit like this, but a 20-mile-an-hour sentence would be fined with 30,000 tolars. If we just look at it in neighbouring Austria, it costs 20 euros, which is about 5,000 tolars, which means a significantly higher sentence. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we strongly oppose such an abnormal increase in fines. However, we agree with other cognitive measures, particularly the withdrawal of the exam from a highly drunk driver. I think it's about time. We also oppose the foxing that remains in the new law. A car that interferes with traffic due to misparking is pointless to handcuff a car, as this can keep traffic from being blocked. We are convinced that increasing road safety requires awareness and prevention, in which the participation of the State and the local community in joint actions is essential. Drivers should be alerted to dangerous compartments with special warning signs and lighting signs. Especially where accidents are common. And of course those involved in traffic where the consequences of accidents are even worse. This is especially true for motorists. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that the safety of children must also be paramount, so we are committed to the country's duty and schoolchildren who walk on roads without sidewalks, who are already referred to as dangerous sections to co-finance transport. We also need to take better care of prevention and road transport education than that. The transit traffic of trucks through Slovenia is known to destroy roads and cause congestion, accidents. The light exception is now the closure of this traffic on Saturdays, but I do not think it is enough done yet, because we know that this traffic is also highly polluting the environment. We are therefore convinced that most of this transit should be done on the railway. At the same time, by means of tax reliefs and other measures, promote the use of vehicles for liquefied petroleum gas, which almost does not pollute the environment. Therefore, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia we oppose the re-admission of the road transport law in its current form and we will vote against the adoption of the law. Especially since we already have amendments to this law at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given to Alojz Sok, position of the New Slovenia Group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister and Fellow Members, Representative of the Council of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we objected to the law in the third reading in this National Assembly. Of the five Members who voted against, we voted against all the Members of the New Slovenia. We did not oppose this law for the reasons stated here by the representative of the Council of State. We objected because this law was poorly presented in public. It is true that it will only come into force next year, but we are convinced that the law that enforces such strict criminal policy as this law should be presented to the public differently than it was. We have submitted to this law as a parliamentary group or our fellow Member, Dr Jožef Bernik, on the very segment that is now becoming the most controversial in the Slovenian public, many amendments, and unfortunately our amendments have not been accepted in the home working body. We think it is a bill that raises penalties by 100%, and the government thinks that criminal policy can regulate the bad situation in Slovenian road transport, wrong. This problem should be dealt with in a different way, and then I'll tell you how. The punishment must actually be comparable to what we want to achieve. However, it has been easy to achieve that in that sector of road policy where our police issue and issue the most measures, penalties are increasing, and so, for example, if you go up to 10 kilometres of speed, after a new 10,000 penalty is threatened, for Switzerland 5,000, as an example, where they have a much higher standard, this penalty is 6,200 tolars. If you're carrying a speed of 10 to 20 kilometers, the penalty is 30,000, if you're carrying 20 to 30 kilometers, is 60,000; that's actually as much as my predecessor said, as many people in this country make a month, a little over 60,000. However, if you are transporting a speed limit of more than 30 km, there is a penalty of 120,000, or even 18 penalty points, and the withdrawal of a driver’s license. The non-use of belts, helmets, is again a 100% increase in punishment. However, the law also contains some nonsense, such as, I think, in Article 24, that the driver must take into account the safety distance, a path which is transported at a certain speed in two seconds or in one second. Of course, the people of such authorities, in order to be able to perceive this, do not have and would be much better if this distance were to be set in meters, as is currently the law in force, but not that the driver has to calculate how much he transports at a certain time. We are convinced that, with criminal policy alone, it is not possible to achieve a different punishment than to fill an always empty state budget. This is much more convincing when we read in the report that Slovenian police issue between 600 and 700,000 measures each year, of which about 500,000 pay orders are written by themselves, while about 100,000 cases end up in court. The report also states that virtually every other Slovenian driver is punished. We think that this is the wrong way to deal with this issue. When I drove yesterday from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana, they controlled the speed along the roads we have, and then we hear here from the minister, that during the night the herbs of Slovenian roads are two victims. I wonder if this is the right way to deal with this issue. If the road safety issue is to be satisfactorily addressed, the road situation in Slovenia needs to be improved as soon as possible. Roads have contributed to many of this because pedestrians, cyclists, and accidents are cut off from the freeway. In Slovenia, too, the rolling stock has changed substantially recently, and has improved, but unfortunately we are convinced that we have not actually done much in the field of education, and in this category of young drivers, the number of deaths has not decreased significantly, despite the fact that they have decreased by one third in 1997. This means that there is actually more to be done in education in schools and that it is necessary to teach young people to respect these laws and to drive according to the rules, not just to try to do so with criminal policy. We, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, will support the Council of State, despite the fact that we are aware that it is necessary to amend the law as a result of the directives of the European Union. We think and say again that such a strict and tight criminal policy in this law is nonsense, and that it can even have a reverse effect. For if drivers in these high penalties, when over speeding, only observe the speed on their speed gauges, of course, something can happen quickly to reduce attention in driving itself, and that, of course, this can have a completely reversed effect, as the legislator wants to achieve. There's a lot of police on our roads. If we drive and transport on the roads of the countries of the European Union, we can peacefully conclude that, say, you will not meet a police station somewhere on the road and you can drive from Sweden. But when you get across the Shentyl border crossing, you'll be able to run into a lot of police patrols like this. I, my fellow Members, would like to conclude with this. I'm aware we need a marriage. In our parliamentary group we know this, but I still appeal to you, let us not allow the Slovenian state to become one police station itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister! The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats supports the Road Safety Act and will also vote in favour of the law when it is decided on the basis of a procrastination veto. The adoption of the law is the product of thorough preparation and discussion of its content with many interested and responsible experts and civil society organisations. Its fundamental purpose is to increase road safety, and in particular to create conditions and measures to help reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries and disability. It also wishes to contribute to this objective by means of higher penalties at risk. This direction is a shock to the spirits, but if this increases the safety of road traffic, and if human life is preserved, such a course is also a positive one. The law concerns virtually every one of us. For this reason, each of us has his own view of the many issues that are regulated in the law, and if, as a common denominator in the law, we choose each individual opinion of the 270 articles, as far as the law has them, then we can quickly find out that no one is satisfied with the law. But this would, in my view, be irresponsible and demagoguen on individual occasions to talk about what bad marriage brings, but it means that we are not prepared to accept an attempt to make serious situations on Slovenian roads gradually change. And for such conduct, according to the parliamentary group, on one occasion it is possible to consider everything as a bad act to be the suspension veto of the State Council. To demand that the law be completely rejected because one question is not settled exactly as the Council of State had imagined, I think it is not good and not acceptable. The Council of State considers that the law should give special powers to take an unregistered vehicle, which is even provided for in the law, but in a slightly different way. And if after three weeks the owners did not pay all the fines and costs, the State Council proposes, his vehicle would be taken away, which, indeed, in law, as a special sanction, is not in this way. Therefore, since these specific provisions are not in law, the Council of State proposes that the law as a whole, with all the good and bad solutions, be rejected. As regards the content of the law, it is right to say that an important part of the State Council's proposals are incorporated into the law, namely, the possibility of removal from transport is already provided for in the law, a vehicle which is not registered and does not have valid driving documents may be withdrawn under Article 239. And also the Offences Act provides for the seizure of an object used in an offence, i.e. vehicles, but not after automation, but if it involves repeated repetitions of such acts and so on. In the opinion of the Government and in the view of the Legal and Legislative Service, the provision of compulsory confiscation after three weeks of intervention would be disproportionate, as the Constitutional Court has already found in similar cases. In addition, it shows that, because of one issue in the context of a comprehensive new system law, it does not show that the law is being rejected as a whole, since the final state council also has a legislative initiative and there is no need for it to go beyond consideration and responsibility for the most radical remedy. As they say, with dirty water, it probably doesn't show the baby from the bath. I'm sure he's not being considered that way. These are all more than justifiable reasons why the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will once again vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The law on which we are vetoed will be rejected in the Slovenian National Party. In short, we're in favour of voting the veto. The Council of State voted veto at one point or decided to veto, and we also support that point. After all, whatever happens to the Gypsies in Dolenjska and when the cops don't hope to stop them, no matter how the Minister of Police says, what he does or what he does, nothing is done. The only thing that's happening is cops down there terrorizing the local population. The gypsies are still untouchable. Discussions on how the law will improve the situation on Slovenian roads are complete "stupidity". Bandelj also said that reducing the speed across the settlement from 50 to 60 and from 60 km to an hour to 50 km an hour would improve the situation, proving to be illustrative. Traffic accidents with fatalities are significantly more than they were then. And this trend is growing. It is therefore necessary to do something different, not to introduce a police state and to introduce a repression such as that of the former Yugoslavia, and at the time of establishing a movement for Yugoslavia, when it was against the independence of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we are not in favour of becoming a police state again, where we have twice the number of police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, such as the number of police officers in European countries. The only thing Serbia has is something like us, and the only thing we find in Serbia is on the roads of as many police patrols as in Slovenia, where there is no such thing in Europe. And I think that these police patrols who raise money to charge the Treasury or to charge the Treasury Department of Internal Affairs are actually trying to correct that impression when the police don't detect criminal acts. The fact is that criminal acts are, in fact, found to be virtually nothing or very little. In marriage, some strange solutions are proposed. The solution is to say that the policeman will come and will find, because of two or three words of the driver, that despite the fact that the alcohol meter does not show him that the driver is guilty, he will judge that the driver is not mentally capable of driving and will punish him. Since when did the cops finish medical school by specializing in psychiatry? I mean, if we were decent like that, we'd probably be somewhere else at work, not at the police department. I think something like this is going on and it's getting married because of the incompetence of police chiefs, because of the incompetence of the Ministry of the Interior and because of the total incompetence of the Minister's police officer. And then we have a book of fools applied here in this marriage. Awful. Officers are given certain powers, a parallel type of police is introduced. Now the guards are gonna get him to punish you, examine you, and I don't know what. But where we are, where we live, Europe is democratised or democratised, Slovenia is becoming an increasingly police state. Interesting. He wants to bring total repression to all levels. And it looks like they're gonna make it. It is also interesting that the Ministry of the Interior or the police wrote the law to themselves. There is no such thing in any other country except us, perhaps in some banana republic with which we can compare ourselves more and more. Such laws must be written by traffic experts. But not cops who just want to punish them, beat them, beat them, lock them up, and punish someone who drives without a helmet, or without a belt, more than a criminal who stole a few billion, at least that's not how they hope to push. I mean, that's terrible! And now we've got this law that we're supposed to adopt, and soon it's going to come in in other laws. After all, one wonders whether there may be just one move by a minister policeman who has failed with no other project of other proposals for marriage to pass through at least one law before the elections, to which he will boast. He will not boast of anything, he will be able to boast of stupidity, which is increasingly evident, and he will be able to boast that people will hate the police even more than they hate it. The police in normal countries are supposed to help people sort things out, and that's not how we do it. The police help bigger gypsies with us, and they don't handle any cases. It breeds repression against normal citizens because they are being repressively targeted. Someone who says he's going to pull a kalashnikov, don't hope, rather run away and hide in the police stations. Mostly the bosses, because these little cops aren't guilty, they're doing what the bosses tell them to do. The boss knows how. In short, we are in favour of the veto vote, and I think the law is extremely bad. However, if the law is adopted, this should be one of the first tasks in the next mandate, to correct these "unfortunate" and to take the writing of the law on traffic safety out of the hands of a minister's policeman and put it in the hands of experts. Otherwise, we'll have even more stupidity, even more "stupid" and more accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. A respected choir! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly concerned and horribly following the situation on Slovenian roads, which ranks our country on the tail of countries after transport security in Europe. In 2003, we recorded 259 deaths of road users and over 17,000 were easier and severely damaged. On the basis of this, we can only find that the damage caused in this regard is quantifiable and simply cannot be evaluated at the price of life. These are irreparable losses that we are witnessing due to poor road safety. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not taken the necessary step in the last four years and mentions the valuable step to improve the situation on Slovenian roads in order to stop the seas in order to stop the killing of especially young people in road traffic. Moreover, it is horrifying to see that safety in road traffic has deteriorated even in the last year, and we are currently recording a 10% increase in the number of dead, if I may say so. This is the result of poor, non-constant road transport policy. This is the result of failure to act, it is the result of indolence and the lack of awareness of the problem. Since we have always been aware of the seriousness of the problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in 2002 we supported the national programme to regulate the situation in transport and expected the national programme to be followed by a modern, European comparable law that will regulate and regulate road safety in all respects. These expectations also proved to be too high. It has happened that the Road Safety Act, contrary to the practice of other European countries, has been rewritten by the Ministry of the Interior, has been rewritten by the police ministry, which is a European specialty, and unfortunately this law is too repressive, realizing that repression alone cannot be and is not enough to make order on the roads or that road safety is also at the side of the developed European countries. Since this has not happened, we have faced a situation where we weigh security compared to the legislative proposal we have received, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have decided to support the road safety law in spite of these shortcomings, because it still brings some solutions that could lead to improvement. However, once again, we stress that we are not satisfied with the proposal of marriage, that it has not satisfied us and that it is too one-sided to deal with such an important subject. At the time of the consideration of the Road Safety Act, we have already said, and I would like to reiterate once again that this law ignores infrastructure, neglects transport assets and regulation, which is a condition for ensuring consistent and comprehensive road safety. Thus, the legislative proposal, which is the subject of re-decision, lacks the attention given to infrastructure, which, once again, is a key factor in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia, can in no way be different. Safe and modernly equipped roads, which must be and which should be marked and equipped according to modern knowledge, are, at least as regards our local roads, on which the majority of accidents with the worst consequences occur, only a pious desire, only a utopia, on the fact that in the last period the state, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has clearly neglected to maintain and restore, renovate and equip regional and local roads, especially because of the fact that the municipalities are responsible for security on these local roads. The allocated funding of municipalities is not sufficient and therefore also suffers from transport safety. Thus, it can only be seen once again that the situation on local roads and regional roads is deteriorating and that this trend also worsens and increases the number of dead road users. As I have already mentioned, the state of transport infrastructure and road equipment does not give adequate and sufficient attention to the legal proposal. A whole series of questions are opening up. The establishment of a public road safety agency was also questionable for us. Here you are also trying to bring civil society into this segment of road safety, but I do not think that the solution is optimal. Look, regardless of the above, we believe that in the field of training young drivers and in the field of speed and alcohol limitation, which are key reasons for poor traffic safety on Slovenian roads, has taken a step forward and that is why we have also supported the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, the reason given by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia as the reason for the vote on the postponement of the veto did not convince us, however, that we did not believe that by incorporating such an article, which would legitimise the seizure of an unregistered vehicle which appears in road transport, we would have enacted and introduced into the law a violation of the constitutional principle of proportionality, on the other hand we could not link and allow such a large discretionary right for an official to order the confiscation of a vehicle on the spot. We are also of the opinion that the applicable law on offences and amendments to the law, which enters into force 1.1.2005, provides sufficient leverage for the police, if they so wish and so wish, to be in areas where we are facing, in particular, the Roma problem with unregistered vehicles in traffic, in order to be able to settle this in a satisfactory manner. We have missed the opportunity to regulate road safety in a consistent European comparable way in a mandate that would be based on knowledge in a way that would place the Republic of Slovenia side by side with the countries of the European Union, which record 55.60 dead per million inhabitants, dead road users. Unfortunately, the adoption of this law is also not a step in this direction. We are still in an infamous backseat with over 130 dead road users. Notwithstanding the foregoing, I reiterate that we have supported the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also supported it because it merely represents a minimal shift towards better security, a minimal but far-off shift, and when we have considered this and considering that every human life is sacred to us, we have decided in favour of the law. We will not support the National Council's proposal for veto in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Wheels! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will once again support the law on road safety. In doing so, we express amazement at the veto itself. According to our estimate, it's one of the most unusual branches we know. Especially because we estimate that the veto is the result of not too good an idea of how to improve safety on our roads. If we consider everything, the basic red thread is the veto of the State Council and this is followed by the main part of the opposition, the opposition's opposition to the increase in fines for exceeding the speed allowed and other offences. That's kind of nice to hear, but it's two-faced. In the LDS, we are aware that only an increase in repression cannot be the only response to the situation on our roads. This is why we have also supported the national road safety programme in this National Assembly, which also provides for other measures in other areas already mentioned today. It is important to say that transport safety consists of three elements: drivers, vehicles and roads. Yes, and we agree with that, in recent years, the attention of this country as well as the law enforcement authorities has been focused solely and mainly on one segment, on drivers. Of course, it is necessary for the other two segments, to improve road infrastructure, which includes various measures, construction of new roads, maintenance of roads, construction of different ramps, where traffic is calming down in front of the settlement, construction of sidewalks, cycling routes, it takes money. And we know for ourselves that this money is not enough right now. And until we have made it possible in this country to give more money to improve road transport infrastructure, then we have no choice but to support a law that has a stricter criminal policy at this time. The situation on our roads alone dictates increased repression, as we are still lagging behind the most transport-safe countries. There is something that needs to be highlighted in this regard. They don't claim that this government has done anything. The national security programme already mentioned is one of the most important documents. And this National Assembly has accepted it unanimously. There's more information to be said. If the lives of 259 people per million people were lost on our roads in 1990, in 2002 life was still too much, I stress, still too much, but 137 people per million inhabitants. At the last international conference, where representatives of this national assembly were also present, we were acknowledged that we had succeeded in doing a number of things in 10 years. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with this situation. Of course, the criminal policy of increased repression has effects. That's proveable. However, it should be stressed that these effects are very short-term and have a limited scope. Nevertheless, we believe that too many are dead on our roads, especially young people, so the solution proposed by the law is appropriate. Of course, we will not be putting ourselves in the skin of someone who, in a village where the limit is 50 miles an hour, exceeds speed of more than 50 and will have to renew his driving license under the new law. Let the driver think about it and bring it to this village. I don't know if we're forgetting that if during a drive on a dry road, where there's a limit of 50 kilometers per hour, a child shows up 25 meters ahead of us, what happens. If we drive 50 kilometers or less in time, and we don't hit the baby, if we only drive five miles faster, we're sure to hit the baby at 28 kilometers an hour, and that kid's definitely gonna get physical injuries. If we drive 10 kilometers faster in the village, and suddenly we have 25 meters ahead of us children, we will hit the child at a speed of 40 miles [39 km] an hour, which is likely to lose our lives, so that we do not keep talking. The damn rule is "Quickness Kills". That's why we think we need to stop this speed on our roads. However, we will strive to ensure that the police exercise control in places where traffic accidents often occur. That this will not be a direction that truly looks like a budget filled, of course, with the appropriate organisation of police work, but, above all, with supervision, it will be necessary to enable those who are called to do so to exercise control in those places where it is really necessary and where those who truly deserve to be punished will be punished. This law, of course, cannot regulate other safety segments, so in the LDS Group we will continue to seek to implement other measures through the national road safety programme. If we achieve only one less life on our roads than otherwise, we will be satisfied in the LDS Group of Members, and we will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, coworkers, colleagues, colleagues. We are re-declaring the road traffic safety law EPA 1131/3. In the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that the situation on our roads is alarming. Data show that the already worrying situation in traffic security in Slovenia has deteriorated in the first months of this year. This has also been confirmed by the Minister of the Interior at the beginning of our consideration of this point. Our view of the law. The establishment of a public road safety agency, which is expected to take over more effectively the prevention activity and the coordinated operation of a number of actors, is a seemingly positive move, but it is important to be aware of the importance of financing the operation of the Agency. If the financial resources of this agency depend on those under supervision by the Agency, utopia is expected to act independently. However, such an agency could only achieve its purpose in the event of independent action. We are still wondering whether the establishment of a new agency, in this case a public road safety agency, is too often a sign that we do not know anything in Slovenia in an effective way and are consequently establishing new and new bodies and institutions whose efficiency is very rarely justified by their existence. The proposer has decided to tighten the penal policy and we seriously doubt that such measures will actually produce the desired results. It is estimated that the endangered draconian punishments are not educational. We see higher penalties as an attempt to change the way road users behave in a questionable, repressive way. It is difficult to assess whether such an experiment can actually be successful, whether it can produce positive effects and what is the likelihood that they will also be long-term. We believe that preventive education and awareness and the desire to increase the driving culture is an area that should be given more attention. This includes family, kindergarten, small school, elementary school, vocational school, and high school. If such measures were properly imposed and, as such, positively adopted, the need for stricter sanctions would be significantly reduced. The lifting of the local vehicle registration authority brings another novelty, which, in our view, is not the most welcome. I am talking about a change in the license plate, on which the municipal coat of arms are expected to be no more since 1 January 2005, which we are slightly regretting in our client, as the local self-government will lose some of its local pride with the loss of the municipal coat of arms on the registration plate. We would also like to draw attention to the issue of the withdrawal of a driver's licence to a professional driver for offences committed by a vehicle belonging to another category such as his professional vehicle. This makes it impossible for such a driver to obtain the means of living, which is even more problematic in the current situation of large unemployment. In fact, the present law introduces specific innovations that we consider to be meaningful. In particular, we are thinking here of measures aimed at improving the safety of young drivers, who are often in line with data from drivers and at the same time victims of accidents. However, in the party we estimate that it would be more meaningful and wiser to take into account the positive news that this inconsistent proposal has in its preparation of a new bill, which will at the same time correct the nonsense that the present proposal is trying to introduce. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also examined the demands of the State Council in the debate on the views of the present law. It is estimated that the Council of State has raised relevant concerns with it, which should be reshaped slightly in the dictatorship itself. In our client we estimate that there are too many partial and unthinkable solutions in the law. We have considered that it is more reasonable to prepare a new, more professionally reinforced law as quickly as possible, containing appropriate solutions. We have thus decided that the problem of road safety in Slovenia is far too acute to be allowed to be governed by a law that, according to our assessment, does not contain measures that would actually contribute to greater safety on Slovenian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-workers, member of the Council of State, colleague and fellow Members. The request of the Council of State for re-decision on road safety law does not seem justified in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. At least not for the reasons why the State Council excuses or substantiates its veto. The State Council's proposal that an authorised person be able to exclude and seize unregistered vehicles, according to the DeSUS Group, intervenes too deeply in the constitutionally guaranteed right to property. In our view, the proposal of the Council of State is mainly disputed by the fact that the vehicle is seized without a procedure allowing judicial control. It seems more appropriate to sanction the road safety law already provides for this is the payment of the fine. Given that the amount of the fine is relatively high, the risked sanction is acting in the direction of encouraging the registration of smaller vehicles. However, at the time of the adoption of the law, we have pointed out disproportionately high fines in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which in our view do not contribute to greater security and do not serve preventive action in any way. For example, we do not think it is justified that a fine of 30,000 sits is at risk for over speeds in a settlement of 15 kilometres an hour. The punishments are likely to hit the poorest people in money. If we hire a law on offences, which also harmonises the road safety law and provides for a resilient prison, we find such high penalties particularly absurd. The Act on Offences provides that an offender who does not pay a fine in part or in full within a specified time limit shall be forced to pay in order to establish a refoulement prison. Removeable prison lasts until the perpetrator pays the fine, even if for 30 days at most. The rejection of a refoulement prison does not end the obligation to pay the fine. It's easy to imagine what potential candidates are for a relievable prison sentence. Without now discussing the meaning of this provision, let us again note the disagreement with the license plates, as already mentioned by my predecessor, on which the coat of arms and city names will be replaced only by the Slovenian coat of arms and the name of the country. We need to know that people identify with their place, although it is only a symbolic act, we believe that they might have an intervention resulting in a large thought leap. We do not know whether the removal of the local crest outweighs the overcoming of administrative barriers that no longer prevent the registration of a vehicle outside the place of the home legal unit. We think it would be possible, although registration can be done anywhere in Slovenia, to obtain a local registration plate. The Safety and Road Traffic Act, on the other hand, has a number of provisions that indicate a significant shift in a positive direction. For example, the establishment of a public road safety agency which will now combine the scattered functions of individual authorities and the possibility of training in a car school for young people from the age of sixteen and a half and many other provisions with a view to improving the formal and substantive state of road transport. Regardless of the comments we have already had at the time of the adoption of the law under consideration, which we must continue to think about, we will reconfirm the law in the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, while at the same time we hope that there will be no need to carry out the already announced referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My word, Mrs. Majdo Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, representatives of the Council of State, distinguished assembly. Pursuing increased road safety and maintaining road life should be our daily stand, including for politicians, to adopt such legislation as to provide a good legal basis. However, can such a tightening penal policy as proposed by law or the adoption of a law, to which the Council of State has vetoed, really bring the desired results? Police on the road are already punishing every other driver, about 600,000 a year, 100,000 of them are proposed to the magistrate for their crimes. The fact is, only 60% of the sentences have been recovered. In doing so, we ask ourselves whether the relevant services are capable of recovering or not having much to recover. Forty percent of the inmates, we can say they're not able to pay. I believe that more needs to be done to regulate local roads where the most accidents occur, so more resources should also be devoted to this, to improving the technical equipment of vehicles, including the further construction of motorways, and in particular in the field of driver education and training, but of course in the culture of drivers who are not at our most envious level. This culture, however, is not only shaped by the tightening of monetary penalties, but also by the appropriate education and proper attitude of the police. I understand the veto of the State Council on this law as a reminder that the National Assembly would reconsider its solutions and I think it is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues. It is true that the title of the content of today's 1st point or this item on the agenda of the regular meeting of the National Assembly is the re-decision on the road safety law. This point is made due, in particular, to the requirements of the State Council annexed. And I would like, colleagues and colleagues to speak very specifically once in a while. I hate to say it, but I have to say the fact that I'm going to come from and I'm going to tell you why the state world is right and what the content of today's debate is, not the average and the time and the time. On 4 July, a report was submitted that a minor driver behind an unregistered vehicle had lost his life on a regional road somewhere. Very, very sad. That's exactly what the State Council is talking about. If, according to the new law in force, which we have already adopted here, was as it was, or where it was, and it was only a matter of determining the vehicle, a person can take over and continue to drive in 10 minutes. If, as the Council of State proposes, an unregistered vehicle is to be removed and withdrawn, this disaster, respected colleagues and colleagues, would not occur. That's a fact. And that is the essence of the veto of the state world. Let us not be puzzled about what is true, what is good, what is bad — what is good, what is bad in the new marriage. The point is, however, that unregistered vehicles are being identified and seized. That's the point, that's the veto, and that's what we're saying today. He's right about the state council. All citizens of the Republic of Slovenia pay fair registration, insurance, toll and technical checks that vehicles are flawless. Everybody. Except for some. And there's more of those over there. The Council of State wants to prevent any person who does not have a vehicle registered from being expelled and withdrawn immediately with this veto. And it's fair what the state council says. The seized vehicle will be returned to such owner or driver when the vehicle registers, recovers all seizure and storage costs or, within a certain period of time, becomes state ownership. Here, once again, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and, on my behalf, the Council of State is absolutely right to see very precisely, colleagues and colleagues and writers of the law, a provision, article of the existing law, which states that this is a matter for identification and confiscation. Determining means, aside, in 15 minutes, his friends bring him back, he has spare keys, and he drives away. That's it. This is a fundamental difference, and that could have caused this accident that I started, it's easy, God forbid any more. On my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I absolutely support the veto given by the Council of State. I would ask my colleagues and colleagues, because I have been very exact and specific, but consider that this is a living truth and that it is the same. However, if we had previously remembered to amend and formulate such an article, it might not have to be rejected by the whole law to bring it back to me, I do not know which procedure to revert to. Neither are we, but unfortunately this has not been thought of, and unfortunately this has come after this. I will not speak of another, because it seems fair and fair to me to be here today in this national assembly, if we have already said in the Slovenian National Party at first that it is wrong to work after 16, 18, 20 hours at night, night to shorten the debate and to concentrate precisely on the content of the veto. And this one is clear, very clear and exact. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf, I absolutely support and assess that the veto proposed by the State Council is absolutely correct and appropriate. To protect Slovenes and Slovenians, honest citizens and, above all, security so that what I said in the beginning doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, with the Minister in charge. The veto of the State Council is an institution that gives an opportunity to reflect on a certain law. And I think there is still a need for this thought, because I myself have the experience that this week, not knowing the procedure of the National Assembly, I have been visited by some people who are still in a position to have a view of transport policy, the situation on our roads and so on. I must say that this has helped me to change my mind and that I believe that this law is very bad, that it is basically a front for something else, which is served in the background through this law for many other interests. The interest is not in this law to reduce the death toll, it is, but behind this very right interest has been a lot of cover and a lot of pursuits of monopolism in the schools. What you've done through this law is to destroy small schools is to destroy competition. When you achieve this, when only a few large schools will have the opportunity to raise new drivers, to whom you have given the opportunity through branches, where nothing but material conditions are needed, the schools in Slovenia will be radically impressed because competition will be destroyed. And that's what the monopolies wrote. That's what the monopolies wrote. I think this is also contrary to the Constitution, with a free enterprise initiative. That these many representatives will be fully aware and also present a constitutional complaint. Inequality before marriage, and I don't know what else. The second is that when you give a driver - rearing option through the branches, I was warned that these branches are not going to do night driving in the future. In the most difficult driving conditions, they are said to educate practically these smaller schools that adapt to the candidate. They are no longer trained for night driving, and as a result, we have so many accidents and so many deaths among young people. But that's the way it is. Instead of focusing on the education of the Ministry of the Interior to analyse what it is that these young people are involved in so many serious traffic accidents with many victims. Here you appear to have extended the deadline of the Forum of Riches, again you have protected the monopolies and you will dramatically, once again, stress, as a consequence, encourage the performance of the driving test, the acquisition of the driving licence. Why does a youth so mass fall into these disasters? Why young people are forced to do so, you are literally walking through what has happened in recent years to participate in certain parties during the nighttime hours. Because this authority has not taken care of the youth to give her a normal chance to have fun. It's a normal possibility for a young generation to have fun. She is inspired to participate in these parties in the morning, where sometimes even with the help of government authorities she promotes herself and these dealers literally put drugs and pills into drinks. And people like that, drugged, then they drive home and normally there's accidents. In this area, do nothing to deter the young generation. Focus on your education first! And these drastic, draconian penalties are nothing more than a budget charge right now. Criminal policy can achieve many things, but there is no need for us to go across borders in Europe. There are no rules in force in other areas of the country. In this country, everything has to be violated. It is not surprising that such well - trained drivers are also in violation of all the regulations on the roads. If the authorities improved if they respected the rules and regulations, there would be more order on the roads. However, you set the example that it is justifiable and reasonable and beneficial to violate all regulations and laws - when billions are stolen, and all those who steal billions are literally supported as heroes in this country through these rich forums. And at this presentation, it would appear that in this way the number of deaths will be reduced to drastic punishment is the wrong assumption of this law, with a view to filling the budget. See, Mr Pahor jena stressed to the Assembly on the Republic that the future government, in any case, will be in great difficulty not to last the entire mandate. As president of the coalition party, he knows that this country is obviously in front of bankruptcy. And now you're filling out a budget that pays for other things. Does our citizen have to be punished for incompetent government? Because of what you do in other areas where corruption and customerism happen? And in fact, it is also customerism - destruction, as I said at the beginning, of small schools, which mean competition, which are well-educated; you have sharpened all conditions so that there will be only a few colleges left in Slovenia. Even in some of the amendments that have been tabled, we can find a direct link, which monopolistic auto school wrote to which Member. That's why I'm gonna support this veto. Although I once thought that this law was written for noble purposes - it is not written for noble purposes, it is money and only money and only money that will be in real pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm gonna try not to go as psychoanalytically deep as my predecessors. To say that criminal policy is the basis of something would be pointless, and no one thinks so, and therefore there is no need to stress it. Criminal policy in this case is just one thing: it is one of those things that must also help and that can help and that can also help, but of course the final result is something and is when everything else fails. That's when it's a penal policy. The veto put by the State Council on the issue of ownership or the possibility of taking unregistered cars, as we have heard, would be unusual if it were written in law. This is also pointed out by the legislative and legal service. But it's not property, and you can't just take property away from someone. The second thing is, we forget that there are cases of people leaving on business, whatever, anywhere for a year, for two years, and they can't use a car and they don't register it. If this were to be written in the law, the logic of the matter would be that the moment someone forgot to register and missed some time or went somewhere and didn't intend to register or use it for a year or two, they should have taken it away, the state should have taken it somewhere. This, of course, is not logical and therefore I do not think there is an argument. More important to me are all the other questions, the heights of punishment and so on, because that is the essence and the apple of the conflict, I think. I just want to give you some information. I'm not going to say it again because my friend Wolf has already said some things, but still. In the national road safety programme, which we adopted with 51 votes in favour and no one was against, no one, we noted, inter alia, that from 1995 to 2000, speed was the cause of 43% of fatal traffic accidents. It is very clear in the national programme that many efforts will also be needed to achieve the goal of reducing the number of deaths by at least 50% due to speed. Speed itself, we've heard data, very visual, perhaps another addition to what speed and punishment mean, which sanctions too high speed, penalises what colleague Vukko said earlier that this would not have happened. I don't know if we're all aware that, let's say the speed of 50 kilometers per hour is the same as the energy of a blow corresponding to a 10-meter drop, that's from the third floor, that at 80 kilometers of speed, this energy is equal to the fall from the 8th floor, 25 meters deep. These are things that when we're sitting in a car, we don't really think about what that means. Not to mention other things. What does speed mean? Some information. In Denmark, they've reduced speed from 60 to 50. This is one of these limitations and the deaths have decreased by 24%, in Germany the same thing, the decrease in speed, and above all we see problems in these urban speeds, so to speak, in Germany from 60 to 50, the number of accidents has dropped by 20%. In the United States, the rate of increase from 89 to 105 kilometres per hour has increased by 21%. The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted this law, which we are talking about today secondly, supported and written on its website that the law brings a series of novelties with its systemic, organisational and substantive changes and that another qualitative step has been taken in the mosaic of measures that lead and so on and so on. These are not irrelevant data. Just a few more words about comparisons and things that, according to my judgment, are difficult to argue with, because basically there are so unusual comparisons and saying that some punishment is too high, because someone cannot pay it and that it is too high according to standard, forgive me, but it is the cheapest populism that anyone can afford, whether it is here in the National Assembly or elsewhere. In the National Assembly, however, it is so much more problematic. It's impossible to compare it through money, impossible, and no one has to commit crimes, and that's why they won't pay the penalty. I could also talk about the comparison that this is due to the budget charging, but these are so pointless things that it is a waste of words. I will not support the veto myself, and I will once again vote in favour of the law as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Rokavac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I must admit that we are indeed facing a great dilemma, but I do not think that this populist, demagogistic approach by the minister is good either, when he said, "The law is needed to reduce the number of deaths on our roads and, of course, the number of worse accidents on our roads." We are absolutely in agreement with this conclusion. However, I say that the law itself, either this or the previous one, or the next one, will not solve the essential problem that is needed in the very context of the approach. Here I believe that we need to move on to a new valuable consideration and a valuable plan to make our roads safer. No marriage will help. It will be necessary at the operational level of all institutions, both on the one hand of the repressive institutions and on the other, of the educational advisory institution as a whole, if this objective is to be achieved. And I think that's what's being done that's essentially not enough. Too much, what has already been said many times today, is viewed at the operational, repressive level at the height of the penalty. I also agree with the predecessor, who said that if someone commits an offence where traffic on the road is in danger, appropriate punishment is needed. Normal. But this cannot entirely be a so-called educational measure. There can be no complete educational action. In this I believe that the problem is, and especially in the prevention itself, also by the police. Many times, too many times, the police, only as a fugitive of these preventive actions on the road, can I see that these preventive purposes are simply more focused on filling the state treasury than on preventive roadside action. How can I simply illustrate this claim? That too many times the police are solely tasked with the collection of sentences, and too many times in the role of preventive warning of road users. Not enough. This is what I miss, especially on those sections of the road where heavy traffic accidents are repeated over the years, including with the result of death. I think that's one of the key problems I see. And the law itself, as it is, will not save all things. On the other hand, I have what has already been spoken today about license plates and well - caught congregation crests. I suggest that it is also possible at the operational level to give an optional instruction, the proposal to the municipalities to generalise the forms of stickers, municipal coats of arms that would be on some part of the car, because, for the first time, this has been well received among people, secondly, it is useful, when there is also a citizen abroad, many times have already been examples that, of course, they can turn to someone nearer faster than otherwise, and ultimately serves for the breadth of the promotion of our wider Slovenia. I suggest that it is not necessarily necessary that this law, in order for a well-intentioned proposal to be probably also well-intentioned, is not necessary for such a label to again cause an extremely large number of new financial obligations for individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I am, of course, personally convinced that this law is about the imbalance between the measure and the consequences. I will repeat once again what I have said in some way on behalf of the Group of Members. Look, most of the time and the easiest thing is where the limit is 50 kilometers per hour, make a radar and then measure the speed. We could, of course, measure it somewhere else, say, on the highway. I have to say that maybe in all four years I've been driving, once or twice I've seen the speed measured on the highway. But I always run into speed measurements where those limits are. Of course, in other countries too, this is being served, but the amount of the penalty that you have provided for by this law, let's see, in Austria there is a penalty for speeding by 20 kilometres 4 thousand 800 tolars, in Croatia 6 thousand 400, in Germany 12 thousand tolars, for Switzerland already, it is said, for our situation is simply what you proposed, the relatively shortest way to get the full state budget through these violations. I can't think of anything else like this. I agree that more needs to be done on the security segment. I mentioned the problem of roads. Here today it has been heard that there is no money in the budget to build these things faster. But it is also true that for this money that we have used in the past, we are building extremely expensively, not asking here how much it will cost, but that these things are being done in a very expensive way. If we also look at the tolls we pay in Slovenia, these are significantly higher. For example, in Austria, they charge 8 euros of tolls for 10 days of wine. I drove from Nova Gorica to Trieste 0.9 euros. What we pay from Maribor to Koper, we all know. So we have the highest tolls in Europe. If this is the success story the Prime Minister is presenting to us here, I don't know. I think that through this, we could, sooner or later, come and improve this road infrastructure, so that those critical sections, where accidents always occur, can be cured rather than done. The roads must be one of the objective criteria for accidents. In fact, you now regulate this law only to the fact that, through subjective responsibility, it is said by some strict and high-punitive policy that we deal with this issue. On the other hand, of course, it appears that these penalties are not recovered in some way because of the poor social status of our citizens. Because you can't take someone who doesn't have one, and that percentage of recovery is very high. I agree with many things in this law, and I would be very happy if the Slovenian Government and its institutions would do more in the field of identification and prevention of what is happening in our discotheques. Let's say why don't you focus your attention more on what's going on at our discos. To, say, control the police there. In order to adopt a law that allows these discotheques to be closed first, not by operating all night long, and from there, after returning young people to their homes to do so. We were the least successful at this time in the 18-24-year-old driver segment. So, if a new law is needed, I would expect and, of course, claim that it is necessary, but I would expect the government to undertake a new law on the basis of some in-depth analysis of the current situation and to first answer this question of what is actually going on in our society, but not as it is now, that on ad hoc we will adopt a new law that says we will prescribe such high penalties in this law and then these penalties will work on how our transport politicians will settle. Gentlemen. Mr. Secretary, of course you can laugh about it. But I'm telling you that this is not the right way, and I don't know if I'm going to have a chance, I'm probably going to be able to repeat this matter to you in time, and I'm going to say on the basis of the penal policy itself, you're not going to reduce the number of traffic accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. I think that we have already identified and discussed many times personally and also in the National Assembly that transport security in Slovenia is catastrophic and that the situation is practically deteriorating. This is also what Mr Minister himself said in the introduction today, and with such a catastrophic state of safety on our roads, of course, questions are being asked about who is responsible and who is most responsible for the fact that such a situation on our roads has been going on for years and years, not to say a decade. Above all, for the last ten years, 12 years, since we've had the suit we have in power. So who's responsible? We have repeatedly warned - I will talk about this later - we have repeatedly warned, as well as the adoption of the national programme, that it is already unacceptable, for example, in the national programme itself, to plan, say, a number of dead people on our roads in a period of time at the annual level. That's unacceptable. We should write into the national programme as a strategy, on Slovenian roads our strategy will be aimed at ensuring that no traffic accidents occur on our roads and that there will be no fatalities on our roads. We should write this down in our strategy, but unfortunately, I also warned about this when I adopted the national programme, I ran into a deaf ear. And where is that main reason for all the disastrous consequences that our Slovenian population is experiencing? Not at the height of the penalty, not in road traffic regulations etc., the greatest reason and these analyses you do not want to do and you do not want to admit that this is true is in our technical equipment roads or at the very quality of our roads. I'll just give you an example. We have the prescribed speed or speed on some roads to be able to drive outside the village 90 km/h on certain regional roads. I tell you, I am driving from Ljubljana Sevnica, for example, if we are looking at the road of Mokronov - Trebnje, this is a section of the road, if I drive there 90 km/h, I am threatening myself and everything around me because it is impossible to drive at this speed, and it is also allowed 90 km/h on that road. I tell you that the differences between height and the axis of the road are between the lower edge and the outer edge, that I am not talking about banks that are virtually not available, that the lane is only two and a half meters wide, the height difference between the axis of the road and between the edge is even 30 centimeters, according to my assessment, or more. And then, without this being evenly inclined, so strongly, this tendency is changing. He's up there somewhere. He's down there somewhere. And if you're driving that fast, I tell you, I was driving 90, and if there's an empty road, I'm breaking the rules and driving down the middle of the road. In the middle of the road, and there's another bulge and as safe as I'm driving. Not below. And if there's a pedestrian and a biker, a truck and some other tractor, etc.; these are dangerous sections and therefore accidents arise. Look where accidents are coming from. In urban settlements such as Ljubljana, etc., where the sidewalks` where traffic regulations or roads are slightly better built, these accidents are less. Most accidents occur outside, in the countryside, where, in fact, these dangerous sections are unnumberedly narrowed, not to say that thousands and thousands are inappropriate. Then a new road begins to be built or an overcoat or reconstruction is made so that for at least two meters a critical bend may be cut a little differently. No, no, no. They sweep the road, grab the leaves and actually put the asphalt back in the same direction as before, and all the critical and fatal points remain unchanged. And who is responsible for all of this? I'm not saying it's not speed, alcohol, youth, etc., either, but it's the government that's most responsible. If all the money that we collect with tolls and gas taxes and other road taxes were to be completely put into building our roads, which would be only fair and fair, we would have "gold" roads and accidents significantly less. The regional road should not be less than 3 meters, the first, the second category, is called a lane. While the first category of regional road is no less than three and a half metres. And these accidents would be significantly less. That's what I guarantee you. Not to mention the quality of the wear and tear layers and all that stuff. If I had been set up, hundreds of billions of money would be saved a year for all the consequences in Slovenia. I probably will not support this bill, nor have I supported the original proposal or adoption. This is due mainly to the fact that it is not enough to actually address all the critical and greatest consequences that are still necessary for transport safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u45	The word has Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Given the time I only have two things left. First of all, I don't know why it's not said that the solution that the world has advocated is constitutionally controversial and that we already had this measure in this road safety law, indeed in 1998, when we wanted to put our finger on those who used gas instead of diesel fuel. At that time, the Constitutional Court clearly recorded and repealed the arrangements for the compulsory imposition of a protective measure on a motor vehicle, as this would violate the principle of proportionality. You know, you may have one structure in front of your eyes for these violators. On the other hand, you must also have a slightly more forgetful lady or an elderly lady who forgot to register and takes her to the store and the policeman stops her and will take the car and she will no longer have it. Come on. So that's one thing. Second. You're saying the punishments are incomparable. I can assure you, given this rule that we have, if you pay 50% quickly, which I object to, but it should be the other way around, the penalties are variable. If you pay immediately, within 8 days, you pay 50% of your sentence. And for speeding in Austria and Slovenia you pay 25 euros in Austria, checked not long ago, but 5,000 in Slovenia. So someone thinks of talking about comparability. As for those who exaggerate in settlements who will travel over 50 kilometers an hour, let them deal with the matter. But with this in Parliament, I don't know where we have the face to defend it now, not to do so, but to have a traffic accident where two children are going to crash, where are you going to be the one who is now advocating a reduction of the penalty. I'm not there. He needs to get his driver's license.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I took the time thoroughly and reviewed the decision and explanation of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is a branch of power, for which it is also necessary to take time and listen several times in this national assembly, to analyse their work and also this decision that they have voted on. If we look at the number of state councillors who voted and the relationship in the state council that was, we can see that 28 state councillors supported the veto decision and that only 2 opposed it. This information shows that we must not underestimate the State Council in the National Assembly and throw this decision into the basket. There's been a lot of talk in this place today. I myself agree with some previous speakers, and my personal opinion is that the decision voted by the Council of State is justified. I see no reason why a police officer or an authorised official carrying out a road traffic procedure or control where there is a pressing problem of unregistered vehicles in traffic can exclude and seize you. I am convinced that Slovenian police officers are educated to be able to act wisely if in the legal dictatorship they write "can be excluded and seized" so that they can separate those vehicles in road traffic, which at any given time have undergone registration of the vehicle, and that such vehicles would be excluded from the traffic, without taking the vehicles, because a person might also be able to overlook the sticker on the windshield, which we have paid so dearly for many years, that his registration has expired, and that this would not be the reason for the police to seize the car when the car is removed. However, there are other problems, problems which have already been highlighted by my fellow Members that there are areas where there is a frequent occurrence on the road or in public transport, where unregistered vehicles appear from day to day and are the same offenders and special returnees as regards infringements of road traffic regulations. In this country, many think that by increasing the penalty, criminal policy will reduce the number of deaths in traffic accidents, they are damn wrong. I recall well the words of the former Minister of the Interior in 1998, when he passed the law, Mr Bandl, which did not produce some significant and visible results. It is true, however, that it brought quite a few changes for the people, for the citizens, and that the National Assembly did not accept the introduction of windscreen stickers at that time. And if we ask ourselves today, who and how the hundred stickers are serving, we can find out that the profit from this sticker, which all the average citizens who have vehicles registered, is paid in private pockets, not in the state budget. When a police officer stops you, he always requires a driver's license, a traffic license, and a sticker is the last thing he sees, whether you have a vehicle registered or not. Then who did we put those stickers in for? We have introduced them so that an individual can, at the expense of the fact that the government regulation states that a vehicle must have a registration sticker on a windshield, someone, according to his household, should be rich. I wouldn't mind if this concession gave me a profit and a difference between value and purchase to the state budget. However, if one of you at the Ministry were to go deeper into the price of printing the sticker and at the price of the one that the citizen pays when registering the vehicle, and find out that there are crazy differences, there are crazy differences, and if you were to give the alien a sticker to print or order in the country the exact same quality, a completely identical label, we could figure out where and in what way and who "corrected" this difference. Next. I have heard from the state councilors that the Minister of State Council said that if the law fell, the state council would be responsible for all the deaths that would take place on the road. I wonder who today is to blame for all the deaths that have taken place, but I do not intend to point my finger at Mr Bohinc. But there's something else I'd like to point out. With prevention and good police organisation we can reduce these traffic accidents, both victims on Slovenian roads - with prevention. Those who are driving from Stajerska to Ljubljana can be found that, at the highest peaks, at the highest traffic density, we do not meet a police vehicle or a traffic policeman at those points where our activity, with our act, can prevent traffic, alert drivers and other participants in traffic. The last thing that convinced me - he said he had a common word - he called me by phone the mayor of the municipality of Maribor, Mr Sovič, a prominent member of the United List of Social Democrats and asked me not to support such a law and to support the veto of the state council. Rarely do we find a common word, at this moment I regret that I have to speak about it publicly, I hope that someone from his parliamentary group will do so, too, our Maribor MEP from the United List sits in those types, and I hope that when she hears our mayor Boris Sovic, when we come from Styria, she asks politely as mayor of a very important municipality, the Maribor municipality, that the law in such content as it is, we do not support. There are several reasons that the mayor of the municipality of Maribor, Mr Sovič, sees not to support such a law. One of these reasons is the license plate when we are also witnessing re-centralisation in this area. Surely, at this point with our mayor from Maribor, I agree and cannot support the law as such, and I will also remain in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mag. A petty man has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. The psychology of punishment applies if it goes beyond a certain limit, it has no effect, and in this case you have actually exceeded that limit. People see it as injustice when they see that, for example, Roma are not punished either for offences, driving without permission, and for black construction. Then I'd just like to touch the construction of the roads. See, in Škofljica there was a reconstruction of the intersection, two billion was "costed", and there was a intersection with a railway track in the same level, nothing actually happened in terms of improving road protection. This is all that can be said in ten seconds, or I would explain to you more precisely.We do not agree with the rigorous lifting of penalties because they have no effect across a certain limit, except perhaps for the charging of the budget. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! There are some good solutions to this law, and this needs to be said, and it is good that what is not right is brought into line, and the Council of State also points to this. The fact is, it's not right that penalties are what they are. I'm not going to say that the ceilings are too high, but the problem is that these penalties don't get too high. If this were to go at some level and then you're aware and you're conscious of some kind of misdemeanor. Such penalties as, for independent entrepreneurs, a million, a million, two hundred, etc.; see, as a single entrepreneur with one car and a small activity barely survives, etc. because someone - as a colleague earlier said - has forgotten what could happen. And then, of course, they're such drastic punishments. Well, that's just not right. It is also wrong to implement the driving examinations policy. Now, in fact, all of these little ones should either join together and make some big joint venture, of course, the end will fall. [[...]] What you're asking for is probably too much. I see no reason why they are needed, as it says here, at least three driving teachers. I don't know, I don't see why this car school is in some small place, if it's located somewhere on this periphery. And that, of course, increases the possibility of a monopoly, like monopolies - like printing lawyers who have graduated from law schools, they cannot do this judicial exam. All right, fine! Monopoly as much as you want - with these notaries - and then we have all these corrupt things going on. I don't want this to happen again in this law. Like I said, a few things are very good. It's a good thing you're following a younger, young driver. However, only the Ministry of the Interior sings these things - but the Levite actually needs to sing and be criticized by the entire government, which is actually guilty, even because of the situation on local roads, as it is. From year to year it's worse - but why. Because this government has burdened the municipal budgets across all borders and then they have only these municipalities for the snow to snow, all the rest of the footprints to pump up banks, etc. - this maintenance money just isn't there. And for this regional uneven development and this range, which is increasing from year to year, this government is to blame, and this law will not solve it. That is why I think it was good that he was vetoed that the law, although it has good things to do, would not enter into force before the new year. In the fall there will be a new government, it will be possible to fix it, to supplement it, and then we will have a good marriage. That's my argument why I'm going to support the proposal of the state council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There's still time for a few seconds. Jojo Tanko, would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Many of you have warned me that the problem of road safety is mainly prevention. However, this prevention does not only mean a greater presence of the police on the road, because it alone does not achieve much. The problem of prevention starts much earlier in my opinion, at the latest in a school that is being raised, not only too liberally, but even liberally, and it eventually goes into nihilism, underestimation and destruction of all standards of life. In short, the problem of prevention starts with the issue of values, the problem of attitudes towards the country, the problem of attitudes towards its authorities and its standards or laws. And in this process, we create young people, and then, at some late stage, we want all of these errors of attitudes towards the institutions and laws of the state to be corrected by some enormous penalties, with excessive repression, and we can say that these penalties are nominally the same as in Austria, but are, in reality, three times higher than in Austria for the same offence - if we look at GDP or, say, pay. The additional problem is that we also have some exceptions, which we also know, when even in the most difficult cases, the most difficult accidents are treated differently by certain people, as prescribed in the law and as prescribed for normal people. We have cases and I think these are the main problems we have in this area of road safety, including road safety. In short, it is necessary to act in an educational manner, to work in the development of values and attitudes towards the state and laws much earlier, and not only when problems arise and when we adopt extremely rigorous laws with enormous penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u55	Would you like a word with the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u56	Your Honor! I must say that I am awkwardly surprised at the debate, over the double criterion that is here in Parliament. We all advocate so much for security, but we do not accept one basic thing - indeed security. On the first reading, on the second reading, and on the last reading, we requested that an article be adopted, in which a vehicle that stops 20 to 30 times in one month would be taken away and removed from traffic - not supported. These are not criteria in the same direction. But you don't do enough social problems, better roads, more prevention. In the seventh, eighth grade, you should have every bike test to start somewhere, thinking this way. I find it hard to believe that vehicles that are unregistered cannot withdraw. The insurance companies made it clear at the last joint meeting of the Ministry and the State Council that 1% of the total costs paid for traffic accidents are paid for unregistered vehicles. And saying and saying that it's wrong is something absurd. The youth left the streets on Friday and Saturday. We have about 300 police officers in the White Land, almost as many as the Belokrans. There are enough controls every day to make you think you're in another country. From Semič to Ljubljana, I was stopped four times in two years. At the same time, there was a man driving past me with an unregistered vehicle, and they didn't stop him because they had me in the process, as a mayor, as a state councilman, and as a normal vehicle. Some double criteria apply here that we don't meet. And if you don't write these criteria in this law, then, unfortunately, you haven't done enough. I'm surprised that you're so willing to wave to our citizens from this glorious assembly, what will be the policy that will [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . Yes, where are we going, gentlemen?Oh, my God! You are our Members! With 120,000, a man with 50,000 income is punished, with me as a saint or as an MP being punished with the same punishment. When I pay the fine, I wave my hand, and I say, okay, I pay, and I move on. Some son who rides around my house with a BMW, and that's what Dad pays for, forget it. This marriage beats a little man. I believe it's a little populism, but that's what it says. But I don't accept some of the criteria they have around the world about compulsory works, whether it's for the mayor or the state councilman, or the MP or I don't know who. He doesn't get enough of these arguments, which are different, just in his pocket to hit you, but you don't have the money and you have nothing to pay with. You do not believe the argument that a judge for offences simply throws several hundred such penalties into a basket at the end of the year - because he is not punished, you cannot punish him. It is well known that a few ten- or twelve-year-olds drive cars, one or the other, and no one reacts because it is not possible to punish them. And you leave us there, right, boys, because you'll figure it out for yourself - will it really rest between us and everyone else? Therefore, we ask that this law be changed and laws adopted that are suitable for our country. We live in the country as we have it. And to say now that the land will be different - will not! It won't, and if we accept it, we really haven't done enough in the area of security. Politically, they gave it to someone who didn't deserve it. So I appeal to all of you to seriously reconsider. To say that we're all for the same thing -- that's not true! That's the kind of thing you leave behind. Yesterday, the chief of police told me he was going to give three additional officers to Semich. After all, half the people are no longer on the roads; they went to the hills, they went on the forest roads, because every 500 meters they really don't want to run into a cop. A police officer hunts you there if you're tied up, if you've got a light, and you blow if you might have a drink, but at the same time, four other guys drive by. And the more we warn about these things, the more they stay the same. I've been a mayor for ten years, and it's just worse and worse, I'm sorry. In the state world, I tried to enforce such rights, but in the first, second and third reading, nothing happens. And the world of state is simple when we saw how he accepted it, almost unanimously. That is why this must be accepted, or whether there are some marionettes of the Slovenian countryside and cities. Not so easy to marry anymore. It's too pretentious and too argumentative from the Ministry and the government to send us the brains and call us boys, because that's not gonna work. That is why I appeal to you not to accept this, because otherwise it will be too little and the culprits will also be here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Minister, you have some time to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for giving me the opportunity to make a few more comments. Let me start here last. Indeed, the representative of the Council of State has expressed a variety of inaccuracies, which certainly cannot be an argument for his position that the law must be repealed. In particular, for example, it does not hold what it advocates for children to take a cycle exam in the eighth grade only when it is generally known that they do so in the fourth grade of the primary school within the framework of special cycling circles. Furthermore, it does not claim that police officers do not monitor traffic and do not report in the event of detected infringements. The statistics are completely disincentived, and I can show them on occasion, etc. In particular, it does not hold the claim which is the fundamental one on which the State Council places its position on the veto, namely that there is no legal basis in the event of a need to act on the grounds of vehicles which are not registered and which have technical deficiencies. It just doesn't hold. We have a law on offences in which this is clearly all written down; and not only do we have a number of criminal judges' decisions already, we have a number of reports to the police, and I have told the police that special guidelines are also given to the police under the applicable legislation, where things will get worse on this issue. The police will consistently monitor the technical "implementation" of vehicles and the registration and will also take appropriate action in this regard, together with the Judges for Offences. That is why there is no basis or reason for us to change the law in any way and thus to reject everything that has been in the professional circles for at least two to three years in civil society as a new road safety law that does not contain only punishment, ladies and gentlemen. Far from it. You've focused your debate on criminal policy. We are all aware that criminal policy alone cannot achieve much but also through criminal policy. And if you vote against the law, then you will not only vote against the penal policy, but against a series of other programmes that the law introduces, including those for which you advocate in the field of prevention, because an agency is appointed with new powers, including those in the field of young, young drivers. So if you vote against the law in the Youth Party, you will vote against the fact that training for a 16-and-a-half driving test can begin, you will oppose the possibility of driving with a companion, of better quality training in this area, and of overcoming the very key causes for fatalities, which are obviously in poor skills and poorer training of young drivers. In short, the opposition to one article that is not required in this law to the programmes that the law introduces when introducing new possibilities for overcoming road safety risks is, of course, somewhat careless or unacceptable. I can't accept it, so I smiled a little earlier, thinking we should start with the analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, not only analyses, this Slovenia has been very proactive in its road safety programme for ten years. And don't make me sit down and start writing analyses, you need to act, adopt the law and take action on the basis of the law. Those who have now remembered the analyses are obviously not monitoring what we are already doing in this area in Slovenia. The statistics don't excuse you for the assessment I've heard here and there, which is very much in mind, that the situation is catastrophic and that nothing has been done here. The truth is the other way around! If you look at European statistics, Slovenia has made the biggest shift from 1995 to today in reducing the number of deaths per million inhabitants. In 1995, we had 207 deaths per million people, today or in 2003 this is 122, which is a big shift, greater than in most European countries. And it is not true that Slovenia is on the tail of the European scale. Countries such as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Belgium have between 150 and 160 dead per million inhabitants. I said, Slovenia 122. And in the new ten, in the new Member States of the European Union, Slovenia is at the top in terms of transport safety. So it won't hold that the state hasn't done anything in these years. It is large and also a law of 1998 has laid good foundations and has also led to much improvement in road traffic safety. Therefore, it does not claim that there is nothing we can do about the law. However, it claims that not only by law, the law will contribute to the matter and I am sure that it must be accepted and that this is an attachment to the European average or only up in the coming years. And that's all about punishment. Nothing is accurate what has been said about numbers. Let me tell you - these numbers are available on the domestic side of various agencies - Austria is the highest speeding ticket of Euro2.180, and prison is possible for up to six weeks and, of course, withdrawal of the driver's license. In Belgium, the maximum penalty is EUR 2,500 and the withdrawal of the driver's licence. In Denmark, €940, these are the maximum penalties at risk, the withdrawal of a driver's license, the re-examination of an examination. In France, €1,500 is the maximum penalty, the obligation to re-examine. When the tunnel speed is exceeded, up to €3,750 and six months in prison, and so on, I do not want to waste your time. It is necessary to operate with correct information when talking about the penalties we impose. We are introducing a stricter penal policy, but we are imposing stricter penalties for those, ladies and gentlemen who are violating road traffic regulations that cause death on our roads and that endanger security, and not for those who do not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. The law will be re-elected in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the context of the vote at 13.50. I'm breaking up the agenda. I thank everyone for participating at this point. I'm moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - It's on Secondly, a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. In a moment, we'll wait for government representatives to arrive. I welcome the representatives of the government. The Secretary of State, Mr Marko Starman, will provide an additional explanation of the bill and I give him my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. The proposed law also deals specifically with the protection of personal data in general and to a certain extent with new ones. The area of personal data protection or the free movement of personal data falls within the competences of the EU. The Directive governing this area specifies the system of distribution of rights and obligations in relation to personal data. The proposed regulation includes standards directly required by the European legislation in our legal order, while at the same time adapting the system to our constitutional tradition and the experience gained in this area. The proposed law clearly distinguishes the processing of personal data in the public sector, as has been the case so far, where by nature state regulation can be more stringent than private, where the economic interest of free goods and services must also be protected. The proposed law therefore defines in the first part, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, all concepts relevant to the collection and processing of personal data, then in the second part lays down the legal basis for the processing of personal data in the public sector and subsequently in the private sector separately. The proposed law now unconditionally requires a pre-determined purpose for the collection and further processing of personal data. In the public sector, the processing of personal data is permissible only if it is explicitly laid down in the sectoral regulation. It is the law that provides that the processing of certain personal data, in addition to the legal basis, requires personal consent. The law provides for an exception, including in the public sector, it is exceptionally permissible to process those personal data which are necessary for the exercise of legal powers, duties or obligations in the public sector, but only under two conditions: if this processing does not prejudice the legitimate interest of the individual and if the individual who has to be informed has not expressly objected to it. In the event of an objection, the independent supervisory authority shall issue a decision on the eligibility of such processing. The protection of the rights of an individual with regard to the processing of personal data in the public sector has remained at the same level or has increased. It is necessary to look at the whole picture, which provides for a different division of responsibilities in relation to the protection of personal data. The proposed arrangement, unlike the current one, which was largely based on a serious formalism, which has in practice proved to be fictitious several times, is based on the responsibilities of operators, effective independent inspection and individual initiative. It is the responsibility of the controller to process personal data in accordance with the law and purpose and to inform the individual in a comprehensive and up-to-date manner regarding the processing of his personal data. Individual rights are extended in the new system as the right to information on the processing of his personal data is one fundamental right. The bill provides for certain sectoral arrangements, such as direct marketing, video surveillance and biometric measures. By proposing a law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a slightly different system has been put in place and is fully in line with European rules and the government is proposing that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law. [[...]] The government agrees with the proposed amendments tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club. Since only 5 amendments are tabled in the draft law, representing less than a dozen members, the Government also proposes that the State Assembly hold a third meeting at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you, Mark Starman, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. The Internal Policy Committee has considered the proposal of the law as its parent working body, and the Committee member Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the Committee's report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u62	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. At its 52nd regular meeting on 24.6.2004, the Committee on Internal Policy prepared a supplementary text of the proposal for a Personal Data Protection Act, after it had been completed through 40 pages of the Act, we adopted almost 100 additions prepared by the Justice Ministry on the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ombudsman, the proposals of the LDS Group, the European Commission and the comments expressed in the general debate on the law. The law deals mainly with the protection of personal data in the public sector, the basis of which is the law and the individual's personal consent, but with a larger circle of exceptions than laid down in the law in force. Personal consent is so much wider. Thus, they have also been added to the law of built-in fuses and exceptions when personal data are not allowed to be processed and used. The basis for processing personal data in the private public sector is consent and contracts, where things are more precisely defined than in the past. The obligation to inform individuals in cases of direct collection of their personal data will also be laid down. The Committee supported the proposal to provide databases of personal data in the public sector to those bodies which need this information to conduct their procedures. We have found that, in their work, different authorities obtain personal data on the basis of the application of different rules, and many times these data obtained by individual authorities on this basis are insufficient to enable them to successfully complete their procedure. We therefore assessed that it would be good for these data to be shared between the individual authorities. A way of working would be faster and more economical. This is an important contribution to the de-recruitment of state administration. The public authorities will not, as we have already set out in the Administrative Procedure Act, collect again and again the same data as others have already collected in order to grant the parties a certain right in the administrative procedure. The restriction is, of course, very high, it must not be transmitted for any other reason than to exercise certain powers under the law, nor does the European Union Directive allow for the possibility that, in the public sector, it is also possible to regulate matters in an exceptional way for the exercise of its legal powers by transferring data between administrative authorities in the public sector. We've also determined that they will intervene free of charge. In view of the possible conflict, the Committee has also regulated the protection of personal data in the exercise of the powers of the State supervisory authority for the protection of personal data and the exercise of the powers of the Ombudsman for access to information of a public nature, how any conflicts of interpretation, such as personal data, the protection of personal data, infringements of the protection of personal data, information of a public nature, will be resolved. We have determined that the national supervisory authority for the protection of personal data may, under law, initiate an administrative dispute against the decision of the public access officer where a violation of the protection of personal data is to take place. We have also adopted solutions in the work relating to the implementation of biometric measures for the purpose of identifying individuals. These are measures to determine the identity of the individual by using the fingerprint, the iris, the retina and so on. Here, for example, the obligation to issue passports containing biometric data will be taken into account if agreed with other countries. The issue of admissibility or the meaning of the distinction between biometric measures in the public sector and the private sector arose. We have decided that there is no reason for differentiation and we have put in place a uniform way of implementing these measures with a solution. Thus, biometric measures should be allowed to be used both in the public and in the private sector, in particular in the public sector, by monitoring access to public authorities' buildings and by recording the presence of employees in the workplace. Otherwise, within the framework of the law, we have adopted a solution and we have set up a separate national supervisory authority for the protection of personal data to carry out inspections. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt a complementary proposal for a law with such content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much for presenting the committee report. Since the Committee held its first reading of the draft law at its 43rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups at this meeting We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We will guide it on the basis of a review of the amendments of 8.7.2004. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Just to explain these amendments. The amendments by content represent minor editorial corrections, such as the name of the supervisory authority for the protection of personal data, being aligned with the title in other provisions of the amended proposal of the law. The protection of personal data must ensure that any form of processing of individual personal data, not only the use or introduction and the setting of deadlines for the decision of the State supervisory authority to introduce biometric measures, is linked to calendar days instead of working days. These are the editorial corrections notified at the time of the first amendment, which are amendments to the amendment of a technical nature, so that I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt them at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Barovic has a word on the amendment to Article 24. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u66	I'll - - I have to go specifically to the amendment, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u67	Yeah, yeah. There is no general debate. This one was done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u68	I give up any word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u69	The hall is beautiful. If no one wants to discuss this Article and the amendment, I conclude the debate on Article 24 and the amendment tabled. I'm moving on to Article 38 and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate on Article 38. I am moving on to Article 47 and the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 47. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 47 and the amendment. I turn to Article 65 and the amendment to this Article of the LDS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 65. I turn to Rule 77 and the amendment to this Article of the LDS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on articles or amendments to the amended bill The amendments will be decided today at 13.50 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. At 1:00 and 15 minutes, we'll move on to the 5th item of the agenda. Until then, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation with the representatives of the Ministry and for your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to 5. On the other hand, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pardon. I ask you very much for peace The bill was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the assembly. [[...]] I give the floor to a representative of the government, this will be Secretary of State of Justice Marko Starman. He will provide an additional explanation for the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. The reasons for the proposed minor amendment of the law are, in particular, the provision of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which does not allow for the conviction of that court, which would have passed the sentence in our country, to be pardoned. It was therefore necessary to explicitly exclude this possibility. The second proposed amendment concerns the current provision. In the procedure of clemency under official responsibility, where the Minister, before proposing pardons to the President of the Republic under official duty, had to obtain the opinion of the competent State prosecutor and the court. The proposed amendment reduces this process and brings it closer to comparable systems in other European countries. Following the proposed amendment, the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court shall not be required as an emergency condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you, too, for this brief introductory explanation. He would like to take the floor of the Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, who was the parent working body in this law, Frank Kangler, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u73	Short. At the 52nd regular meeting of the Committee 23.6., the Committee fully followed the preliminary discussion of the proposed Government and also adopted two of its amendments to the two articles. In fact, as the government's proposal said, there are two minor corrections. In view of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with the Statute of the International Criminal Court, it has already carried out the judgments of that Court and the amendment concerning the acquisition of the opinion of the competent State prosecutor and the court in the procedure for pardon under official duty. I would also like to point out that in its opinion the draft law was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for the Political System. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following two amendments: Articles 1 and 2. Article 1 "The President of the Republic cannot pardon a convicted person who ends his sentence in the Republic of Slovenia following the judgment of the international criminal position" V2. the proposed amendment to the article: Article 14 is amended by adding the word 'competent' before the word 'national'. I think that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pardon is appropriate for adoption and consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you to France Kangler for presenting the committee report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u75	Mr Vice-President, motioners, colleagues and colleagues! Despite extensive changes to the law, which do not change the concept of pardon, they are still worth considering. We do not know from a brief written explanation anything more than that the restriction referred to in Article 1 of the amendments applies because of the Rome Statute, which does not allow the authority of the State in which the sentenced person ends the sentence to pardon the convicted person. The President of the State, therefore, will not be able to grant a person full or partial penalty, to turn the sentence into a pardon, or to a conditional conviction, or to erase the sentence or to reduce the duration of the legal consequences of the sentence, which is certainly commendable and, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, is a very important provision for the further implementation of international criminal law in Slovenia. The provision prevents mercy for the worst crimes affecting the international community as a whole or for genocide, crime against humanity, war on crime and aggression. Certainly we must not allow such violators to slip out of the hands of justice and to be carried away cheap by pardon. We therefore support the amendment of this Article in the DeSUS Group. However, we cannot fully agree with the amendment of Article 2 of the Law. We must not forget that the procedure for pardon may be initiated either on request or on official duty, and the procedure under official responsibility shall be initiated by the Minister responsible for justice. While the law does not determine when an official duty will arise, we are therefore without any criteria. We have heard the explanation that the official duty is given when the Minister of Justice, at his own discretion, proposes pardoning a certain convict. This is the only criterion, irrespective of the number of requests for pardon and the explanation that pardons under official duties are generally carried out at holidays such as those of the State, and that at that time a group of people are pardoned, which is almost considered amnesty. In matters such as mercy, we must not be inconsistent. We see no reason why the opinion of the court or the state prosecutor would not be important in such a case, since it is they who collect the data most likely to decide on pardon. Although the data and the opinion based on them are not formally binding, the decision is certainly based on it. At least it would be a little strange if the decision at the end of the President of the Republic did not take into account the opinion of the authorities that had been in contact with the convicted person. We do not know why we are rushing by law to the last meeting of the National Assembly in this term. Nevertheless, we believe that it is better to settle the matter on a formal level than it is inconspicuous. And in the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In 1995, the law on pardon was to be supplemented and amended by provisions in two matters, as has already been said. The first refers to the provisions of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Their statute does not allow convicts to be granted pardon under the law of the State in which they are serving their sentence. And the second amendment concerns provisions concerning pardon when it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the competent state prosecutor and the court. This would, however, continue to be the case, but such an opinion would not be necessary in the event of a clemency under an official obligation. We do not oppose changes and additions in our Group of Members. We are critical, however, that we accept the bill so late, just before the end of our term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you, too, for the position of this group. Master Majda Pótt gets the floor for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members and distinguished representatives of the Government! The draft law, which brings only one addition and one amendment to the pardon law adopted in 1995, will be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Although there are only two articles, the corrections are essentially quite different. The addition of the first Article is necessary due to international obligations, as Slovenia is also obliged to implement the judgments of the international criminal court. However, the Statute of this Court does not allow for the pardon of convicts under the law of the State in which they are serving their sentence, so the President of the Republic of Slovenia cannot pardon such a convict and the limitation of his jurisdiction for pardon in such cases had to be explicitly recorded. However, the amendment to Article 14 is in a different direction. It leaves part of the procedure which, according to the Ministry of Justice, has needlessly delayed the decision at the time of the pardon. Article 17 of the current law on pardon explicitly states that the pardon procedure must be swift. However, in its opinion, the legislative and legal service also pointed out the weakness of the justification for the proposed amendment, whereby the court and the competent national prosecutor are no longer required to draw up an opinion on the eligibility of the pardon even when the procedure begins after the official duty. Complementing the explanation showed that it is a strong argument for a change in pardons and an act of grace which the President of the State may make in special informal and legislative frameworks. The procedure for acquittal under official responsibility shall be initiated by the Minister responsible for justice, and his decision and the decision of the President shall be the only guarantee for the appropriateness of the proceedings. The question is whether it is right to leave the opinion on pardoning the state prosecutor and the court when it comes to pardoning under official duty was at the heart of the debate and does not object to pardon as an act of grace. We do not have any doubts about the findings of Penolian science in the United Nations Social Democrats Group, which draws attention to the effects of excessive criminal policy. However, experience shows that our courts and state prosecutors rarely respond with an affirmative opinion on pardon, as evidenced by data. We are confident that the proposed amendment is well thought out, and that is why we will support it in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you. The word gets Victory Jelinčič noble for the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone. I heard the best argument against the law from a colleague of DeSUS's mouth, and yet he said they would vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u82	We're not having an argument. It's just a statement of views.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u83	So I'm not going to take a lot of arguments against them, but I'm just adding them that I agree with them. However, I have several more questions in the Slovenian National Party. It also states in Article 1 that the President of the Republic is unable to pardon convicts who remain in prison in the Republic of Slovenia following the judgment of an international criminal court. What if this convict is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia? We do not yet have such convicts, but it is not said that we will never have them, because Europe and the International Criminal Court will certainly go to debate on arms trafficking. And if we have any convicts at the time by an international criminal court, how will we proceed in that case? There's nothing specified here. In Article 2, which states that there is no need for the opinion of the court and the Attorney General on the eligibility of the pardon in the formal procedure, such a very strange terminology can be found in this sentence. What's an official pardon? We know the pursuit of official duty and, in most cases, this persecution is abandoned or avoided by official duty and no one is sanctioned for it. We've got a whole bunch of cases where prosecutors left the chase, even though they should have launched it on official duty, but they didn't. Now we have an official pardon. Does this mean that all pedophiles, or those who are violent against children, will be pardoned? Because this is what I would expect in this legal order, which I cannot call order, so this is the legal order in the pronunciations. I don't think the law is assigned, it's not justified, and it's very superficial. It was made for a moment, two before the new term, to unlock another hook: we adopted another law, very important and so on. I think that we should discuss this matter a little bit more deeply, find justifications and, above all, write an act in such a way that it will stand, despite the fact that the law is a very moving thing and that Slovenian law is a particularly seductive thing that is subject to political appetites, political weeks and the political preferences of both judges and prosecutors, we should at least write a little more concretely here and in particular discuss it. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you. Dusan Vukko gets the word, the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Group, we will support the proposal for a new law on pardon. In addition to the statute of limitations, pardon is also a reason to put out the sentence. By pardon, the sentenced person may be completely or partly released from prosecution, or may be completely or in part dismissed from the execution of the sentence, the sentence imposed may be converted to a pardon or suspended sentence, or the sentence may be deleted. Mercy means an act of grace and refers to judgments already made. The judgment by which the sentence was imposed shall remain unchanged. The President of the Republic shall grant a pardon for the offences and shall express the will of the highest public authorities to release the convicted person in part or in full. To be able to discuss pardons, we need to go back a little bit to history and expose its roots. In the Middle Ages, the next feature is found among the marks of sovereignty as the highest absolute and permanent authority. The sovereign also covers the exclusive possibility of appointing officers, granting pardons and tendering taxes. As a holder of sovereignty, he proclaimed acts of clemency to be a monarch, who also exercised judicial authority at the same time. At that time, sovereignty was primarily referred to as an act of political wisdom or the monarch's grace as a judge. Nevertheless, pardon remains the Institute of Criminal Law in today's times, but not as an act of the monarch's grace, but has taken on the pardoning role of correcting the penalties imposed. The Institute of Pardons allows for the correction of the possible strictness of the law. The correction of an unfair judgment may also take place if, for example, the sentence was too high. Moreover, pardon may be an incentive for a convict who is on the stand for punishment to act in accordance with social standards in the future. We alone in the LDS Group do not oppose the Institute of Mercy, although we believe that it is a somewhat outdated institution. We note, however, the possibility of overlooking different circumstances and facts in individual cases. We must be aware that the traditional pardon remains in the hands of the President of the Republic or the Head of State, who has historically developed from an absolute monarchy in which the monarchs had all state authority, while the judiciary was established as an autonomous branch of power. It was therefore possible to understand the legal arrangements under which an application for pardon was submitted to the court which delivered the judgment in the first instance and that the opinion of the eligibility of the pardon was given by the court and the competent State prosecutor. We have before us a proposal for a law whereby, when it comes to pardoning under official responsibility, it is said that when the Minister responsible for justice, according to his own opinion, proposes the pardon of a certain convict, the opinion of the Attorney General and the Court is not necessary. Until the proposed solution, we express a certain scepticism. Otherwise, we will support it, especially on the grounds that the procedure for obtaining the opinion of the competent court and of the competent state prosecutor is a long-term procedure due to all of us known judicial backlogs. However, we will closely monitor the conduct of both the Minister of Justice and the President of the Republic or their assessment. If this happens - and I hope that this will not happen - to pardon the perpetrators of crimes who absolutely do not deserve it, we will ourselves introduce a new law in which we will reintroduce sufficient safeguards into the system so that such cases do not occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. I will briefly give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law amending and supplementing the law on pardon. We will also support both amendments to Articles 1 and 2. When considering this law, it is important to stress that we must not ignore the judgments of an international criminal court - that is, what crimes are being prosecuted by an international criminal court - and it is right to take into account here the ruling of the amendment adopted by the committee. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we fully agree. Indeed, in the near future or in the next term, a debate on the controversy and views of individual political parties on the granting of clemency under official duty could be initiated, but at a given time, as proposed in Article 2, they are appropriate and will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 15 July 2004, after the end of the agenda. By this I interrupt this agenda item, at 13.50 a.m. we will move to the vote and ask all Members of the Members and Members of all the Members of the groups to come to the Chamber at this time to do this work scheduled for today. I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his cooperation at this point. Thank you. By 1 3.50 hours, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u89	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the work of the National Assembly. We will move on to item 2 of the agenda - this is for the vote Please calm down! We are therefore continuing with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, by re-decision on the road safety law. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that law. That's 46 or more. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the voice Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u90	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will say again. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely agree with the veto presented by the Council of State. Once again, we stress that the essence is clearly expressed in the veto itself, that the majority, only two state councillors, opposed the veto. And if we already have a national council of justice as well as an institution of an integral part of life in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, it is therefore necessary to respect their opinion, especially since their content is absolutely, according to the Slovenian National Party, justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u91	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u92	We therefore support the veto proposed by the Council of State in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. I will give the opinion of the parliamentary group on the vote, the decision on the road safety law. The Parliamentary Group will not support this law for a number of reasons. Some provisions are, of course, positive and cannot be opposed.However, there are so many inconsistent and bad proposals left that it cannot be supported. In the first place, it opposes an excessive increase in punishment. We stressed because they have no positive effect. As these penalties are too high, then psychology is acting to punish those who have enough money, anyway, because it has no effect, but for the others it means a complete attack on social security. In some cases, an offence occurs when you miss it unintentionally, unintentionally. This is happening and this needs to be taken into account. And because of that, putting things on the line, it doesn't matter. People experience as criminal proceedings when public authorities act inconsistently, in the case of Roma, driving without a driving licence, without a registered vehicle is not being punished consistently; others, so-called civilians, are being punished consistently. We should also do much more in prevention in terms of eliminating moral escapism or relativism. What's going on? Young people race at night. The case is near Leclerc, where race starts at 1:00 a.m. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u95	Colleagues and colleagues, please be at peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u96	When disco programs and young people start going out and then racing. [[..]] The police aren't responding, they say they can't. Even this law, when I asked them if it allowed them to intervene - no, it didn't allow them. Culture on the road, respect for others. This does not apply because it is an integral part of a poor universal culture. And after that, we are different in Slovenia. In Slovenia, there are still a number of unregulated overpasses, undercarriages which, of course, reduce road safety conditions and cause greater damage. This is not why we should increase penalties, but improve infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you. Paul Rupar has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and distinguished representatives of the government. I'm not gonna break this law myself. I agree with the veto not only for the reasons they have already said around schools, but for the simple reason of municipal officials. The very word "communal director" always reminds me of someone who drives away garbage, someone who deals with plumbing installations in cities, so, somehow in the sense of a municipal company, that they have uniforms, I don't even talk about them, because they always remind me of the loyal fans of the Latvian football team. But in spite of everything, we're increasing their powers by law. Among other things, they can measure speed with radars, and they can also legitimize. What, though, if we do not have an orderly marriage? The last meeting of the National Assembly, where we could possibly do so, are honourable Members of Parliament, and Members have withdrawn this law on municipal regulation from the agenda. I would also like to stress here the simplest, more request of the customs of people, road users and road users. In our country, the police are repressing people, punishing them at the most impossible points, at the end of the highway, where they are, inhuman speed limits at 40 km. And if you get any police with that gun, then you'll be right where the least danger is, not where it's most necessary. Unfortunately, the attitude of the police to the people is what it is, because we are people or I will tell them theirs, that is, those we pay them and those we have to warn us, push a little away from us and always look at them with ugly eyes, czech, cop, cop, we run away from him. I'll be done in a minute. So if the relationship between the people and the police were different, better, of course, I could also expect what I want to do instead of being a high and severe punishment, sometimes a cop simply speaks to me humanely and kindly and reminds me that sometimes I make a mistake, instead of always giving me money penalties. But thanks so much for putting up with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you. Now we're moving on to a decision. Max Lavrinz. Someone else to take note of. Jerca Frost.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. First of all, when we decide whether or not to marry, we decide whether we will allow the number of deaths to increase more than this moment is a trend, or whether we will end it. And I will, of course, be in favour of stopping this trend and turning the curve back to where it needed to be. That's the first one. Second. Of course, the law is not perfect. So I'm sure we're going to build it up or upgrade it. Third, of course, and here I would agree with those who have also pointed out in the discussions that the Minister, to this and future ministers, is under an obligation to adopt such a law to influence the work of the police so that they do not commit stupidity, that they are not stimulated by such acts as were mentioned as stopping, or by someone carrying a traffic sign on the highway, at the end of the highway, where it says 100 and so on. That it's not a shocking use to say authority, officers, but we all work together for greater road safety. I am sure that if the law were to be applied this way, it is very good, the number of deaths will be lower, the cost of treating people after hospitals will be lower, and fewer families will be unhappy. Think about it when you decide whether you want to or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Jerca Mrzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, loves the people. I will vote in favour of this law. When there were one or two cars in Ljubljana, there was no need to agree whether to drive on the right or on the left. Now there are one, two, or even three cars in each house, and it is likely that laws must be adapted. And that's all it's about. I'm also joining my forerunner, who spoke wisely. I just want to make a few more comments on the comments you made earlier. Look, since the punishment will not punish the rich or the poor, the punishment will punish the one who committed the wrongs. And those who adhere to the rules will not be put at risk, but those who keep to the signs, who judge and warn of the rules. I ask you truly on behalf of our children, on behalf of the safety of our children, we all know how terrible the roads are, how every day a lot of sacrifices, I really ask you, we accept this law, although perhaps to whom it does not seem completely perfect. And it's not true that punishment doesn't mean anything. This is, of course, a misappropriation, and then there would be no need for institutions that are simply necessary for such or other offences. You were talking about education. Of course, education is necessary, but education is, as we know, permanent and every day. And this marriage is probably one of those who will change the upbringing of the elderly and the younger. And don't act like we're threatened by this law, but let's please act like this law is dealing with a really big problem. There are really too many on our roads, especially young people, at risk, and also health and life. Thank you very much. I'm sure all well-meaning people and smart people will vote for this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you. Ivan Mamić, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. Why? If the speakers before me and today, as has already been heard, were convincing, if only one victim had been reduced by this law, I would have been immediately in favour. All these analyses without analysis just didn't convince me. We're talking about education. It's the same as beating the father of the child to be good. And the father is sure that the child will be raised. One who will not do so will use some teaching method, will be well-educated with this comparison. But if this is about charging the budget, for God's sake, let's see what's going on on the Ljubljana roads. I can't even sleep at night. On the Poljanska road I live, which is very busy, and wood engines and cars every hour. I don't know what speed it is right now, but it's crazy. And I've never heard of stopping him. This is also happening before Parliament. On the Danube or Slovenian road every day. But the cops are walking. Then let the budget be filled with these people. Do we have to pay the ones we're from the countryside? I went through Logatec once, I got ahead of myself, of course there's 50 an hour, ten seconds maybe I drove 84 an hour, I had to pay 50,000 fines, and then I kept driving perfectly normal, and I just wanted to get ahead of myself. So it's absolutely not convincing what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Joze Azhishch, then Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much. However, I understand the initiators, and I also understand part of the populism in this initiative. However, I don't think road safety is worth playing with. I don't know how my friend Mamic would analyze [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u107	Don't politicize your position. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u108	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. With regard to penalties for offences. Several times the minister also said that our sentences were lower than European, nominal. But I'm not gonna say why we act differently as soon as we get across the state line. I'll set something else up. Those who drive through the bottom floor, we all know that the fastest drivers on this road are Italians, Croats and all who are of the same or different kind from the Western Balkans as today's modern word, and have German registrations. Why do they freak out when they cross the border? Because it's cheap. Because they come faster, much faster if they go wild, no matter what they can do on the way, and because the penalty is minimal for them. We who come across our western borders, and immediately, as soon as you get across Ljubljana, we immediately "breathe" and respect all the regulations. Why? Because it's too expensive for us. Thank you very much. I'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u111	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u112	What my predecessor just said isn't true. With this law, the penalties will be much higher for us than in neighbouring Austria, Switzerland, Croatia or, if you wish, Germany. They're going to be a lot higher penalties. I also see that such a criminal policy and I fully agree with what my fellow Member, Mamić, has said that by raising someone by force, it does not achieve the effect that you can achieve in a different way. The government will have to deal with these problems in a completely different way. Above all, more should be done to improve infrastructure and, of course, to train young drivers. Above all, you will have to look at what is going on in our discotheques, what is going on there, because most of these accidents happen among young people just when they leave these and similar events at night. And one more thing. Today it has been said that in Slovenia about 40% of the penalties remain unrecovered. You didn't answer that either, why they remain unrecovered. Why, then, do you actually impose penalties on a certain law in such a situation? Unfortunately, as we see here today, the ruling coalition will, of course, accept this law, which was quickly adopted without any general discussion, and the citizens will feel the consequences of this law 1.1. 2005, however, I am sure that someone will have to correct it in a short time, because, of course, he does not hold back some clever judgment. Thank you very much. I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I re-vote on this law, I will support the law. In the mandate, we adopted a resolution on road safety, which envisaged a number of measures to ensure greater safety. And it seems absurd to me that in the law that speaks of security, we hear so many threats. Perhaps the hidden charm of electoral time is the reason that some of their once spoken words about the importance of safety in traffic have now been forgotten. And there's another reason why I'm going to support this marriage. I do not agree with the justification given by the State Council, what should be the reason for the veto and the non-admission of this law. If we're going to look at the substrate of this decision, then that's something I can't support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you. We can now proceed to the vote. So re-decision on the Road Traffic Safety Act. Check your voting devices and we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 of us present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been reconfirmed. We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda, which was interrupted, the proposal for a personal data protection law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We decide on Article 24 and the amendment of the LDS to this Article. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 67 of us present. 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on Article 38 or the amendment of the LDS to Article 38. We're voting. There are 70 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 47. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 71 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 65 of the LDS. We're voting! There are 70 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I'm sorry. He's against one. The amendment was accepted. We also decide on the amendment to Article 77. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There are 70 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The panellist has already proposed that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Since the amendments were adopted in the second reading less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, proposes that the assembly, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 72 of us present, 54 votes against 13. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted, and the State Assembly will carry out its third consideration of the bill on Thursday 15.7.2004. Amendments may be tabled by qualified applicants by the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I have already provided information on point 5 that the third hearing will be held on Thursday 15.7.2004 after the end of the last item of the agenda. Procedural? Please, Anton Anderlich has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u116	I propose that we make a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the definition of electoral units for the election of MPs to the National Assembly on Tuesday after the expiry of the agenda. It is simply that electoral rules will begin to run at the end of the month and it would be appropriate to do so by then or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u117	We have heard a procedural proposal from LDS head Anton Anderlič. This proposal to hold this hearing on Tuesday, I put it to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on this proposal. There are 68 of us present. 48 votes against 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 13.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted and will also be placed on the agenda on Tuesday. Before I interrupt the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to make a notification by the European Affairs Committee. The chairman of the committee shall request that you attend the meetings of the European Affairs Committee at 2.30 p.m. of the members and members of this Committee. We're breaking up for today. I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant end of the week.
