ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u1	Your Honor, I wish you a good day! Please take your seats. [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The National Anthem.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u2	Dear President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, warmly welcomed to the National Assembly at the 1st constitutional meeting of the newly elected National Assembly! Thank you for having the opportunity to listen to your address will be this opportunity. Dear Members, distinguished Members, ladies and gentlemen, a very nice greeting! First of all, a sincere congratulations to all elected Members and Members of Parliament! I wish you good work, good cooperation and a good feeling about our work together. Allow me, on this occasion, to express my thanks to the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and to the co-workers and co-workers of the National Assembly for the work done, for the preparation of this first constitutional meeting and for the preparation of the work of the newly elected National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u3	Dear President of the Republic, Dr Janez Drnovšek, former President of the National Assembly, Mr Ferri Horvat, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, is present at the sitting and I welcome him and give him my word. Here you go, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! It is my great pleasure to welcome you to today's first constitutional session of the National Assembly. This is the fourth call of the National Assembly since Slovenia's independence. Today it is not my intention to give you any guidance at the beginning of your responsible work. However, I think it is right that I wish you very much success in your work, that I want you to work with responsible and with as much positive energy as possible to meet the expectations of our citizens and citizens who have chosen you and represent them. We have been able to resolve a lot of issues in the current part of the National Assembly. In the beginning, independent legislation was put in place. This represented a great deal of legislative work for the National Assembly, for Members and Members. Our preparations for integration into the European Union followed below, and once again very many laws, very much preparation, very much legislative work, many times also in time. At times, it seemed to us that the national assembly and the government had continued to work since independence under some kind of pressure, time pressure, always had to adopt laws as soon as possible. Thus, at times there was a feeling that some of the solutions might not have been best thought out, worked out, and worked out. In this large amount of legislative work, this was also normal. I estimate that the current fourth call of the National Assembly in this sense could be more normal in order, once we have reached our fundamental objectives from independence to integration into Euro-Atlantic integration, once we have established our system, to adapt it to European standards, so that we can continue to act in a manner similar to that of parliaments in established countries, European countries with a longer tradition, so that in normal procedure we can also adopt laws with the necessary consideration, with sufficient time to really verify the solutions, and that we would feel that we have done everything we could to find the right solutions, the laws at the moment. The National Assembly is waiting for many tasks in the next period. Of course, the fact that it is being established today and that it also elects the Prime Minister as soon as possible, as well as as as a strong and quality government. The government and the National Assembly will have to carry out many tasks together. Despite saying that most of this difficult legislative work is behind us at the beginning of our country, there are still many challenges, many open questions. Life brings them every day. New questions, new problems, new challenges are being raised all the time. There's gonna be a lot of challenges. Slovenia will now need to be strengthened in the European Community, to ensure the best position, to take advantage of the opportunities offered to us by the European Union, to take advantage of the opportunity to achieve as quickly as possible, in an open competition and in cooperation with other European countries, the quality of life for our citizens and citizens. These options are open, but they are not in themselves assured and self-conceived. You're gonna have to make a lot of moves, real moves. Our contribution to the further construction of the European Union will also be important. The European Union is also facing many challenges in the future. My experience is that proposals, even if they come from a relatively small country, are taken into account if they are serious proposals, if it is obvious that politicians, Members of Parliament, ministers can look also through their own fences and that they can think even more broadly and that they can propose useful and right solutions, even on a European scale. This will be very important in the coming years. Of course, there are many challenges at home in strengthening the competitiveness of our economy, further seeking the right balance between a competitive and a social state. This mission is difficult. We know that the whole of Europe is facing an ageing problem, that social states, as many European countries have developed and are of quality, no longer endure and that there is a need for a new adjustment, on the one hand, between competitiveness, on the other hand, between optimal social solutions, that ensure the most decent life for every citizen. I am sure that you will put maximum energy into this work, efforts to make a real effort to realise that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have given you four years to manage their country, that they expect much of you. And that consciousness itself should be sufficient to seek the best solutions in constant search, including in mutual dialogue. I am also pleased to note that, gradually over the years, there has also been more dialogue, including between various political groups, that there is no more firm party closure, that there is more consideration for proposals on the other hand, which, of course, can only be in the interests of citizens and citizens of the whole country. I want as much quality as possible, even patient dialogue and also the best possible results resulting from this. Once again, great success in the next four years! I hope that we can bring them out together in the best possible way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u5	I thank the President of the Republic very much for his words. I have been informed that the President of the Republic will not be present at our meeting, so I suggest we welcome him. [[Let's hear it.]] The meeting was attended by the President of the Republic Election Commission, Mr Anton Gasper Frantar, and the Secretary of the Republic Election Commission, Mr Marko Golobic. I say hello to both of you! Before we proceed with our work, please, Members of Parliament and Members who have not yet notified their presence to the House of Assembly and submitted their election certificates to do so here at the President's table. I will be assisted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Jožica Velišček. Before we continue our work, another brief announcement. Today on the bench you also received postcards with casual stamps prepared by the philatelic club of the National Assembly. The inscription "Last day of the third and first day of the fourth term of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia" is on the ad hoc stamp with the motif of the prince's stone and coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia. For philatelic purposes, this postmark will be available at Ljubljana’s 1101 central post office for the next 14 days. On this occasion, a philatelic exhibition by the Secretary of the Philatelic Union of Slovenia, Mr Jank Stampfle, was also presented in the lobby on the theme "Preparation of Slovenia and Entry into the European Union". I invite you to take a look at the exhibition. We are moving on to the agenda of the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and has been received by letter dated 19 October 2004. The draft agenda is based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the constitution of the National Assembly, namely, the temporary heads of the sent groups and Members of the national communities set out the following draft agenda: 1. appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission, 2. acknowledgment of the terms of office of Members, 3. election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, 4. Election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. Of course, it should also be noted that the first three items of the agenda should be held at the Constitutional Meeting of the Assembly. Thus, it is not possible to withdraw these first three points from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups propose that the agenda be extended by the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Would the representatives of the candidates like to speak? Would the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? They have three minutes to explain. Please, Comrade Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u6	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that this proposal is not capable of being considered at this meeting of the National Assembly, for purely formal reasons. If the National Assembly had accepted this extension and had done so, then I would have done a bear service to both the National Assembly and the future Secretary of the National Assembly. What's this all about? The Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly in Article 25 shall state that the Secretary-General shall appoint a national assembly on a proposal from the College for a period until the end of the term of office of the State Assembly appointed by him. If you look at the provisions that speak about who is forming the College, then you will see that this proposal cannot be made before we have a President of the National Assembly. Right now, we don't even know who the candidate for the President of the National Assembly is, which is a nuisance that is actually linked to the first three items of the agenda. In a formal sense, the Constitutional Meeting of the National Assembly may be subject to great doubt that it is capable of complying with the rules which are written from the first moment on and from the most important point on. That is why I would suggest to the proposer, Mr Tsukati, as stated in the explanation, that this proposal withdraws and seeks to enforce it when we have the President of the National Assembly. Nor is this proposal, I will say, in accordance with those provisions which speak of the work of the College. The College was led, if this was supposed to be a college, contrary to the first paragraph talking about it, and the big question is if we can really deal with it within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 21.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, please? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Well, I could not agree with the observation that there is no formal basis for this item of the agenda, for in the Rules of Procedure referred to by Mr Školč, the following paragraph 12 of Article 12, paragraph 3: "The draft agenda for the first meeting shall contain the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission, the confirmation of the terms of office of Members, etc., and may also be appointed Secretary-General of the General Assembly." So the business option is quite appropriate. Given that there were no substantive comments on the candidate proposed at the college, which was very well known by the National Assembly, there was no comment on the content, expertise and competence of the candidate. We believe that this can be placed on the agenda, as the College of the National Assembly has also stated, especially because this point will only be after the establishment of the National Assembly, after the election of the President and, of course, if the President is not elected, there will be no consideration of the following points and neither will these points. We believe that it is time for the National Assembly to actually start its full work, unspoiled, to begin its country-building function as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that representatives of the proposed groups and representatives of the proposed groups have the floor. Please, Sasha Bake.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we will support the proposal for enlargement. We assess and consider it wise for the National Assembly to do everything as soon as possible. Only we as an institution can start as quickly as possible and work as qualityly as possible. Therefore, any desire to delay matter, whether it be the appointment of the Secretary-General, is unacceptable to us. All we want in the national party is to start our regular work as soon as possible. We estimate that we are empowered and elected and elected, or citizens and citizens, and that this should be the motto of the functioning of this national assembly, and not by any means what is the wish of some to delay procedures. In the national party, we will oppose all proposals which will result in the delay or departure of the work of the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. We have heard the proposaler, we have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda to item 5, the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. We're voting. I'd like to warn you about your cards before that, please. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda and we are voting on it. We're voting. I note that there are 86 Members present, 54 votes against 26. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. This also gives us point 5 – the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The full vote on the agenda. I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by letter of 19.10.2004 and with an addendum adopted. On the bench you received a more detailed instruction on voting with a voting unit in your seats. I ask all present Members, once again, to insert the card - let us not forget this - and we vote on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. 89 Members present, 79 votes against 7. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the agenda for the first meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE Vice-President OF THE MANATE VOLUNTARY COMMISSION. In accordance with Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Members of the national communities have provided that the Chair of the election commission shall belong to the SDS Group of Members. The Vice-President of the Commission shall be appointed to the LDS Group. The interim leader of the SDS Group announced that he was proposed by Franco Sušnik as chairman of the Commission. The temporary head of the LDS delegation, however, proposed Davorin Terčona as Vice-President. You have received a proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission in your parliamentary groups. With regard to the decision, do representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to speak? Excuse me? Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the public! The mandate-holder committee is to count or count 22 members. After reviewing the composition of the election committee, we found that only one member belongs to the Slovenian national party on this committee. I'm asking publicly why? According to the electoral outcome, if very precise, the Slovenian national party is 6.26% and, given the electoral success, is certainly entitled to have 2 members among the 22nd members of the electoral commission. With all due respect to colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party who are very close to us who have a proposal for two members, we are of course very interested, very interested in what the Slovenian National Party should deserve to have only one in its proposal. Let's leave the math calculations. The President of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, said earlier "in mutual dialogue to find the best solutions", and we are not only proposing it, we are also demanding it. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party estimates that two members must have two members in relation to the election outcome and the composition of the election committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. At this point, I would like to say that we are voting today on the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission. Before that, there was also a meeting of the parliamentary groups, where what you have written today was determined. However, I repeat, today we are only voting on the President and the Vice-President, the rest can be decided later on at the College of the President of the National Assembly, that is to say, with the parliamentary groups, where it is also determined how many members of the Commission will be and how many members will belong to the individual parliamentary group. So far, this has been determined and this number is 22. As I know, because I was present at this meeting, your representative was also present at this meeting and this proposal, which goes to the vote today and you got it on the bench, was unanimously adopted. So once again, we are only voting on the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission. Does anyone else want a word? Maybe one of the Members? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. Of the 89 Members present, 84 were against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I will read again the composition of these 22 Members and who is the President and Vice-President of this Commission. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities have already decided on the number of seats on the committee belonging to the individual parliamentary group. They have also communicated their names. So the 22-member membership of the Election Commission is the following: Franz Sušnik, SDS MP, President, Davorin Terčon, LDS MP, Vice-President. Jože Tanko, Franc Pukšič, Rudolf Petan, Jožef Jerovšek, Bogomir Zamernik and France Tsukjat are also members of the SDS Group. From the LDS: Jožef Školč, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Rudolf Moge, Anton Anderlich, Matjaž Švagan. From the United Social Democrats Group: Dusan Kumer and Miran Potrč. From the New Slovenia Group: Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Mag. Janez Petty Officer. From the SLS Group of Members: Josip Bajc and Mag. Janez Kramberger. From the SNS Parliamentary Group: Sašo Pece. From the DeSUS Group: Ivan Yelen. From the parliamentary group of national communities: Maria Pozsonec. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I propose that, for the preparation of the 2nd item of the agenda, the mandate-holder committee meet immediately in the large lounge on this floor. Members of the Commission would like you to take with you the material you have received for consideration of item 2 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting. The assembly will resume its work in an hour, that is, at 11:45 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u14	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 2. It's the day's turn, confirmation of the deputies' menats. You have received the report of the Republic Election Commission published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 112/2004 [[you have received this in the parliamentary groups]] , and at the same time the report of the Election Commission, whose constituent part is the list of elected candidates for Members [[You got it on the bench.]] . I note that, until the beginning of the meeting, no complaints were lodged with the candidates or representatives of the lists. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Franz Sušnik, to submit a report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u15	A respected choir! The mandate-election commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia met in accordance with the provision of the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members and reviewed the certificates of election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission found that no complaints had been lodged and that, on the basis of a review of the report of the Republican Electoral Commission and of the electoral certificates submitted, none of the 90 parliamentary mandates had been contested. On the basis of that and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission of Elections shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt a decision approving the mandate of all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia elected at the elections on 3 October 2004, following the list annexed [[all other details are given in the report you received on the bench]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u16	I thank the President of the Election Commission, Mr Sušnik, for his report. I am opening a debate on the report of the Election Commission. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I'd like to give you another explanation. On the basis of Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Law on Members and Article 13, paragraph 3 and 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly will jointly decide on the approval of non-controversial mandates. That's how we go about making decisions. It follows from the report of the State Assembly Commission on Elections that there are no mandates at issue, so I am putting to the vote the report of the Commission on Elections in full and therefore we are voting together on the approval of all 90 seats of Members and Members who are not disputed. The proposal for a decision of the Election Commission is as follows: "The terms of office of all Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia elected at the elections on 3 October 2004 shall be confirmed by the list of elected candidates for Members and Members, which is an integral part of the report of the Election Commission. President Franz Sušnik." We can go to the vote with this. I'm warning you again on the cards. We're voting. There were 87 Members present, all 87 Members voted against. [[Let's hear it.]] [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the report has been fully adopted by the electoral commission on a mandate basis and all 90 seats of Members and Members have been confirmed. I congratulate the elected Members and wish them all great success in their work. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this point by reaffirming the terms of office of Members. We can go to 3. It's the agenda of the president of the National Assembly. I ask the groups of Members to submit within 30 minutes a proposal for candidates for the President of the National Assembly. And I'd like to ask you to submit these proposals to the chairman or to this table. I'm adjourning the assembly session for half an hour. We will continue the meeting of the assembly at 12.30 p.m. when I inform you of the submitted nominations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u17	Dear fellow Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. I inform you that I have received the following proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly: a group of 42 Members with the first-signed Mr Dimitri Kovacic as President of the National Assembly proposes a SDS Member of the SDS, France Tsukati. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly to prepare votes for the secret elections, as you have already been told, the President of the National Assembly and also for the consultation of the parliamentary groups, as agreed. We'll resume the session in 30 minutes, it's 1300 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u18	We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Within the time limit for the submission of nominations for the election of the President of the National Assembly, a group of 42 members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic proposed France Cukjati as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask, do the representatives of the motioners want to further explain their proposal? I guess not. I therefore ask, do representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? In the proposal I received or the list I received, Mr Janez Janša made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u19	Well, first of all, I apologize for this delay, and I have a Vice-President of the Serbian Government in my office who made a visit to Parliament and I joined this point a little late. Anyway, Mr President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by congratulating you on your election, confirming your mandates to wish you a successful work in favour of all those who have supported you and also successful work for the common good. Let me also say that, for the first time in this new mandate of the National Assembly, I thank the leadership of the National Assembly, in fact both of them, who have tried to make progress in establishing democracy. And especially the last leadership in those days after the elections, to make the effort to move as smoothly as possible into a new mandate. Now, as one of the proponents and also as a member of this national assembly, I would like to briefly justify the proposal to elect our fellow Member, Mr Frances Tsukati, as President of the National Assembly. In fact, you all know Francet Tukjatja, also known by the Slovenian public. He is a humanist by faith and also a humanist by professional choice. He is also a Democrat, not only by belief, but also by actual practical action. Our fellow Member, France Tsukati, who is proposed as President of the National Assembly in the fourth term of the Slovenian statehood, is an experienced parliamentarian who is accustomed to working for the common good, both with arguments and with a work of association. He has consistently proved this by his work in an expiring term. We will look forward to the greatest possible support to our fellow Member in secret elections, and we will see this support as an additional commitment to responsible work for the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The following is reported from the LDS Group of Members, Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I congratulate you on your election and confirmation of your mandate. I am confident that this National Assembly will carry out its task in the next term and will also consolidate Slovenia as an open, free, social and democratic country. At the same time, I thank the past leadership of the National Assembly, which has done great work and deserves our recognition. With regard to the candidacy, we regret that we have received a proposal for the President of the National Assembly only today at the table during this meeting. It is a pity that this has prevented prior consultations and agreements on possible support. There may have been such informal discussions, but the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia was not included. With the candidate you are proposing, we can only say that we expected a more integrated and integrated personality; we have not had such experience with the candidate in the past term. We expect the President of the National Assembly to have a sense of dialogue, to take account of the arguments and to respect written and unwritten rules of the game. These were the presidents of the National Assembly in previous mandates. We will be pleasantly surprised if the candidate changes his course if he becomes president of the National Assembly, but we do not believe too much in this, frankly. We believe that there are quite a few Members in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Club who would be more trusted in the LDS as presidents of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we believe that the President must be elected and set up a national assembly in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The following is the representative of New Slovenia, Dr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. May my first words also be thanks to you and congratulations on leading this session. And, of course, a warm, warm welcome to all fellow Members and fellow Members! We are convinced that this fourth term is crucial to our common history. We're sure we'll all get to work together. We also expect to make progress in this house, which in democratic order is the natural space for bridging opinions and different views in civilized dialogue, and that we will survive a period in which we will be able to work together for the well-being of all, as this is our common goal. With regard to Dr. Tsukati's candidacy as President of the National Assembly, let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support this candidacy. We know Francet Tsukjat from the previous mandate as a man who will make a reasoned statement of his views, which is open to dialogue, which is urgently needed in such a responsible place as we support. We are pleased to support his candidacy, we know that a person who is a part of this work that can do so, and that in a patient dialogue he will try to maintain in any way in this national assembly such an atmosphere that will allow for joint work, regardless of how surely we all have our own views, our commitment to his constituents. However, this makes us even more obliged to present our views patiently and openly, and we also know how to defend them. So, on behalf of New Slovenia, we support France Tsukjat's candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u24	Next, please, from the SLS Group of Members, Jakob Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to begin by congratulating everyone on their election and at the same time thanking the Members and Members of the previous mandate for the proper work done. I myself have witnessed this work quite during a considerable period. So I think that the election of the President of the National Assembly is the most important point in the establishment of the National Assembly, and I am sure that we will also do it today. As regards Mr Francet Cukjati's candidacy, we do not doubt his professional and personal quality in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. That is why we expect Mr France Tsukjat to be the President of all Members and Members and to represent both the State Assembly and the State of Slovenia with dignity. So, as it is said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Next up is a representative of DeSUS, mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I also wish to congratulate you on your election in the hope of creative cooperation. At the same time, I would also like to thank the voters for allowing our parties to be present in this Parliament. Today, before we elect the President of the National Assembly, and our Group of Members is thoroughly concerned without going into the personal characteristics of the proposed one, we are convinced that the written rules for the functioning and work of the President of the National Assembly are sufficiently precise and that they allow for the proper and effective conduct of this National Assembly. Therefore, our Group of Members will support this candidacy in order for the President to be appointed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I am no longer on the list of representatives of the parliamentary groups for discussion. That is why I am moving on to the debate between Members and Members. There's a mag on the list. Andrej Vizjak from SDS. No, you're giving up? Thank you. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija. Not at all. Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič from SLS? Not at all. Thank you. Franc Puksich from SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and Members! First of all, thank you to all those who have entrusted us with the votes that we have had the opportunity today and the opportunity to be reaffirmed in this national assembly. We certainly have a lot of work to do. Much work on decentralisation of the country, in all areas of the economy, local self-government and, of course, also state administrations. Much work awaits us for better conditions of operation, life of Slovenes and Slovenes throughout the country. Therefore, it seems to me, even after previous explanations, that a fellow Member of Parliament, Dr France Tsukjat, is one of the most responsible jobs in this country, we can trust in the leadership of the National Assembly. He is a humanist and, above all, he is a person who can listen when it is actually the most necessary. That is why, of course, I will support him at the time of his election, on behalf of all those who have elected me in the municipality of Ptuj, built and Rogoznica, the municipality of Destrnik, Trnovska vas, the municipality of Vitomarci, Juršinci, Sveti Andraz in Slovenski Gorica, the municipality of Dornava and Polenšak, and the municipality of Markovci and the municipality of Gorišnica, so, on behalf of all of these colleagues, France Cukjat will receive my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The next was a report from LDS. You're giving up? Thank you very much. It's mag. Janez Petty Officer. Not at all. Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Kangler of the SLS. He's not in the hall. Ambassador Joseph Jerovšek of SDS. Not at all. Ambassador Rudolf Moge of LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u31	President, thank you very much for your word. A sincere greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament. As a veteran among Members, I note that we have been carrying out one of the very important tasks at the beginning. The election of the President of the National Assembly and the election of the President of the Government are two tasks which are, of course, linked to the fact that the matter in the National Assembly is taking place as it should, that is to say, at some decent height. I cannot agree with myself that this point was well prepared, because when we started it, we only got a proposal on the table, but we have nothing to argue with the proposal. What we got on the table is, in my opinion, extremely modest and bland in shape, as per content. In order to make a better decision in support or not, because I know Mr Franco Tsukjati after my work so far, as the leader of the parliamentary group, but he is running for the National Assembly, that he will be the President of the National Assembly, and that is why, in terms of the good customs that apply in Slovenia, I suggest that he take the word that we individual Members have now taken, speak to us and tell us from his experience what was wrong here, how he intends to lead this national assembly and what he thinks he should do in this area. If he had gathered so much courage to sign and agree to the candidacy, for which I sincerely congratulate him, I would also expect him to stand up and tell us how he feels about leading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Member Alojz Sok of New Slovenia has been reported. No, you're giving up. Thank you. Ambassador Bogomir Zamernik of the SDS. Master Borut Saiovic of LDS, you're giving up, thank you. Anton Kokalj from New Slovenia? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u33	Thank you very much. As a novelty in the National Assembly, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all colleagues and colleagues, particularly those who are newly elected. I expect a more dialogue from the new composition than I have been able to follow through the media in the past mandate period. Of course, I would rather see on the candidate list for our representative's important function, but of course I respect that our President has made a different decision and I think that from the SDS party, Mr Tsukati is one of the most credible candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u34	Thank you. Ambassador Jože Tanko of SDS? No, no, no. Thank you. Ambassador, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I'm not a veteran like Mr Moge, I'm kind of a "new comer" like a whole bunch of others here, but I would still join Mr Mojet's proposal. I think it is appropriate that, however, the candidate for president here should present himself in some way. We may not be aware that, in the absence of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, this is replaced by the President of the National Assembly. And I don't think it would be good for the public to have the impression that this function is in some way a residue. Residency, what's left. Since this is an extremely important function, it would really be right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Master Branko Grimes of SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! To colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, of course, sincere congratulations on the election and confirmation of their mandates. Today, of course, we are now deciding on the President of the National Assembly, the person who has been told to act as closely as possible. And I'm asking you, what exactly is this? I am convinced that we need a person who is able to listen sincerely to the interlocutor and who also helps everyone to find compromise solutions afterwards, directs the work of the National Assembly and, of course, consistently respects the rules of procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which binds us all who are elected to this National Assembly. And much better than words, I'm sure everyone is told about his actions. And I would remind you of how Dr. Tsukati helped run a constitutional commission in the last term. And I am sure that his work has distinguished exactly what we all rightly expect from the President of the National Assembly. That is why I will certainly support his candidacy and, of course, I call on everyone else to do the same. On this occasion, I would also sincerely like to thank and join the others who have already done so - all for the work done so far, but I would also like to thank all the services that care for this national assembly, whose work is often overlooked, but allow the national assembly to operate and make the most quality decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u38	Thank you very much. LDS L.D.S. Ambassador Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Allow me, President, to continue where my predecessor has ended up in action and to express my position and views on the proposed candidate. The President, proposed by Dr. Tsukati, was among the signatories to the proposal for some referendums, which constituted some kind of doubt about human rights. Let me mention the proposal for a referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ, which the Constitutional Court ruled is contrary to the Constitution. This was a referendum that was not in line with the constitution of which Dr. Cukjat was a signatory. Or a referendum on the law on amendments and additions to the law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance, where Dr. Tsukati was also a signatory and where words fell, if I mention them, "about mentally disturbed women who should be expelled from society". It was about statements restricting people's freedom. Let me also mention a proposal for a law on same-sex partnerships or a relationship that Member Tsukati objected to, in part or with an alibi, that it brings something that it does not really contain. He defended it in principle: "Yes, but," where that "but" was poorly founded or disputed. In the past, in my opinion, Dr. Cukjat advocated and also proposed positions, as well as initiatives that separated Slovenia's space, introduced certain differences, perhaps even gender-based discredits, and so on. In short, they interfered with human rights and human integrity. At this point in Europe, the Commission's confirmation of one statement, which according to the philosopher and former Mayor of Venice Massima Cacciari, is extremely fundamental, namely, the statement by Buttiglione that homosexuality is a sin and that women should remain behind the stove. This kind of moral definition raises questions about the confirmation of the European Commission. That is why I say that we must also have before our eyes the fact that the principles of respect for equality are not only moral, but also national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u40	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Ambassador Janez Janša, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u41	I didn't mean to call again, and I apologize for that. Nor did I expect that there would be a continuation of some debates at the constitutional session of Parliament when human rights are turned into ideology. Obviously, the outcome of the last elections has not yet reached enough depth; but not now. I would like to answer the obvious why we did not coordinate the candidate earlier, why the proposal came to the table. There is probably no need to respond specifically to this, because the procedure is perfectly clear - the proposal can be made once the National Assembly has been set up - and formally it has not been possible to submit it before. We have tried somehow in these informal discussions in the past days to coordinate some of the possibilities, particularly with those parliamentary groups or parliamentary parties that have expressed their readiness for future cooperation and have not already stated in advance that they will in any event be in opposition. As much time as it would have been during today's day, we would have tried to harmonise the proposal more broadly. However, I believe that so far no candidate for the President of the National Assembly has been coordinated to such an extent as is now, through all the borders that have been established or the lines established in this high house, so that the proposal is perfectly legitimate, according to the content of the good, and I propose that we decide on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The following was reported by Josef Školč, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm having some discomfort on this proposal myself. On the one hand, I am aware that this is our very experienced colleague and certainly one, I would say, stronger pillars of earlier social democracy, but now the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr Cukjat was what is called a true soldier of the party in all these debates that we have been able to listen to over the years, and that is probably why he was proposed to this place. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. What seems problematic to me is that the forerunner says that we leave some questions that have been asked in the past to the point that ideology is no longer important today. I think that Mr Janša is wrong about this; if he and his people did not ask ideological questions, then these things would not be as divided today in Slovenia as they are divided. Other Slovenian politicians have also pleaded that the end of ideology is not to talk about world philosophers. Of course, at the end of ideology, I do not believe, whether or not the President of the Republic pronounces it, and whether or not the party presidents say it. That's why we're gonna have to get along. And in this respect, this debate on this candidacy is also a debate on the positions that Mr Cukjat has advocated in the Slovenian political space. It's just an echo of his work. And in this sense, unfortunately, it is impossible for him to now expect that, within this debate in the National Assembly, he will explain what he thinks about those women and those procedures that have been prevented from treating infertility. Nor is it possible and it does not need to be answered as far as the issues of higher-a-high sexual diversity are concerned, so that we do not speak so further. But these are questions that will probably also employ this space, and these are questions on which a policy has been set up that is today victorious. We admit that, but we need to know whether we can, because we are electing the President of the National Assembly, give him a vote, or if what is considered a rather problematic position, hangs in the exhibition of the National Assembly. Even Mr Buttiglione, a parallel here, was willing to speak about a difference between his views and the job he would or would perform. Here this discussion is blocked, even more so, the proponents want us not to talk about it, but the president of the National Assembly is not someone else, but he is the President in essence of Parliament. From this point of view, it has been the custom of the presidents - not to say that he must stay - that certain positions have sometimes been kept to themselves. Whether or not this will continue is another question. What is true in saying this is that, at least for myself, I have some embarrassment, regardless of respect for him as a party fighter, as we know him, and that I do not understand the proponents that they have not found a figure where such a question could not be asked. These questions are not only questions of this assembly but are questions of the entire political spectrum. In this sense, I attach to Mr Kokalj that we would like a more dialogueal approach, but we have started differently. We started by getting suggestions on the table, we have half an hour to think about what we're thinking about. These breaks go on more or less everyone's nerves. And we started with this, as I already said on the agenda, that it was also a process failure of a potential future president. These are things that need to be taken as a contribution to the serious - these comments - as a contribution to our future common serious work. As hard as it is to listen, we're actually not feeling well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The list of applicants for discussion is thus exhausted. In view of the debate between Members and Members, I ask, however, although this is not provided by the Rules of Procedure, does the candidate for President of the French National Assembly want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. Because no one else wants to please peace in the hall! [[...]] If no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to the vote! In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall be appointed by secret ballot. I'd love to, peace in the hall! In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee that leads the vote. These are: mag. Andrej Vizjak - SDS, Rudolf Moge - LDS, Aurelio Juri - ZLSD, Martin Mikolič - Nova Slovenija. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I guess not. If not, we are moving on to a decision on such a composition of the Commission by vote. We're voting! I note that of the 89 Members present, 87 are in favour of the proposal, against no one. [[87 members voted in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members who will assist me in the vote, which I have drafted to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 13.50 p.m. and will take 15 minutes. The vote will be closed at 2.10 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the meeting at 2.25 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u45	Dear Members! We continue with the suspension of the third item, these are the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the President of the National Assembly. The vote on candidate Francet Tsukati for the President of the National Assembly was held on 22.10.2004 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 votes cast, 3 votes invalid, 86 votes valid, 58 votes in favour [[Let's hear it.]] , versus 28. I would ask you if you could continue with the meeting, and please, Members, if you will sit down. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Franc Tsukati has been elected President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u46	Your Honor, allow me to speak a few words about this moment. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, thank you for your election. Thank you for your trust, which means it is my duty to carry out my task properly and to comply consistently with the rules of parliamentary democracy; even when they are written on the skin of the opposition. Nothing more harms and demeans the Member than if he cannot invoke the right conferred on him by the Rules of Procedure. What is more, we must do everything together to ensure that the parliamentary procedure is given added value of interpersonal understanding, which cannot be covered by business provisions. Your Honor! Your trust, and above all the confidence of the citizens who have brought us all into the legislative branch of power, means our common obligation to meet their expectations. Here, in this place, the best legislative solutions written on the skin of countries and citizens, those citizens who get up every morning and go to work or school who have to stay at home because they are sick or workless, and those who cannot stay at home because they do not have a home. So all those who seek a piece of happy life in this beautiful land under the Alps. Even in the fruits of our work, the legislation should reflect added value, this is the inter-human understanding of the specific problems and concerns of citizens, and the added value of a determined fight against injustices, with everything that hampers economic development and entrepreneurship and causes misdegradation and many individual tragedies of under-protected citizens. Your Honor! We have a new mandate ahead of us, to fulfill it in the honor of Slovenia, and to our personal satisfaction we have done something good for everyone we meet every day at home and on the road. Moreover, at the initiative of some Members to answer their questions here in the National Assembly, I did not respond because this is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and would only delay the meeting. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u47	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have received the following proposals for the election of the President of the National Assembly. Forgive the first complication, which probably won't be the last. Your Honor! We've concluded this agenda item, so we're going to move on to 4. POTUS OF THE DAY - THE LOVE OF THE VICE-PRESENTATIVES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. I ask that in 30 minutes, this is until 15.05, the Group of Members submit a proposal for candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. By then, I will be adjourning the meeting of the assembly and continuing it on Friday, 15.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u48	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the adjournment of the agenda for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that I have received the following proposals for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly: The Group of 11 Members, first signed by France Žnidaršič, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposes mag. Vasjo Klavoro. The group of 12 members with the first-signed Bosnia and Herzegovina's Vice-President of the National Assembly is proposing Saš Pečet. The Group of 10 Members with the first signed Merrani run for Vice-President of the National Assembly proposes mag. Majdo Potrat. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, following the decision of the College of the National Assembly, we are electing two candidates for Vice-President, First and Second, because the third place is reserved for the largest opposition party whose name we do not yet know. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the Consultative Council in the parliamentary groups and the preparation of votes for the secret elections of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. We'll continue the session at 3:35 p.m. Now, honourable Members, I invite everyone to the staircase before the entrance, where there will be a group photo deadline for a new mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. Within the time limit for the submission of candidates for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the proposal was submitted: a group of 11 Members with the first-signed France Žnidaršič - proposed mag as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Vasjo Klavoro; group of 12 Members with the first-signed Bosniak Zagorec - Saš Peceta proposes to be Vice-President of the National Assembly; group of 10 Members with the first-signed Mirano Porča - proposes mag as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Majdo Potrat. In accordance with the agreement of the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will today elect two vice-presidents of the national assembly, the third, from the largest opposition parliamentary group, and we will vote later. Would the representatives of the proposers like to further explain their proposals? Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! As I speak for the first time today on behalf of the Group of Members, first of all sincere congratulations to all elected Members and Members wishing to have a successful part of the National Assembly and to have the right cooperation. The election of the leadership of the National Assembly is certainly an extremely important action which, for the next four years, should define the conditions under which the National Assembly will participate, so this election does not seem to be a technical exercise. Nor does it seem to us to be an exercise based primarily on the division of the electoral booty or on the arrangements of the parliamentary groups and parties, which may not participate in power even through the national assembly. We believe it is important that such proposals are also drawn up to ensure that this national assembly, in view of the work ahead and the tasks ahead, is able to lead with dignity, to identify important issues, to assist in the integration and organisation of work and, ultimately, to protect the reputation of this institution. We've seen the suggestions. Mag. Majdo Potrat proposes a United List of Social Democrats, two other proposals from the Slovenian National Party and DeSUS, because the parties themselves do not have enough votes, were also supported by fellow Members from the SDS, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party in one, and, if I have seen, in another case only from the SDS and the Slovenian People's Party. The proposals are formally correct. However, I do not think it is good that, although for the Vice-President cities - I am speaking perfectly 'although' because these cities seem very important to me - they make proposals without saying a word about the quality of those who are proposed. I do not know whether this is appropriate for you or not, I think it is appropriate and it is right that only a few words should be spoken about the quality of the one proposed for the function. Therefore, allow me to say that our candidate is a Slovenian and Russian professor and a Slovenian liter of literature, that she has received a number of recognitions as an active worker in the area of Slavism and Lover Culture; that she is now elected to the National Assembly for the second year, that she worked in four working bodies in her first year; and that the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice also had a Vice-President and managed a series of meetings without any comment from anyone, not only by the coalition, but also by the opposition, that she can therefore connect and guide the work properly. It was also active in the field of foreign policy, as it was ultimately part of the Committee on European Affairs, and before that also in the Permanent Delegation to the Assembly of the Western European Union. And for many, perhaps irrelevant and important to us, the only candidate among the proposed candidates and candidates is the candidate. And if the National Assembly wants to show its Europeanism in this way, you will also prove your Europeanism by taking into account whether the principle of equal opportunities in practice or only in words means something between the three candidates and the two candidates. Please, and I suggest you mag. Support Majdo Purity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Barovic spoke as a representative of the candidates for the Vice-President of the Saš Pečet National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! After all I've seen so far is a sincere congratulations to everyone on their appointment, a sincere congratulations to you, President! The Slovenian national party - I will be a single, short and substantive - is a 12-year-old parliamentary party. It is all the time, and it will also now be a constructive opposition party. If we all look at each other's eyes, even by the previous governing structure, we have been given evidence because we wanted the National Assembly to work so that the government can start working, we have always confirmed, or if we have assessed, we have helped to elect a government, we have helped elect a prime minister, so that Slovenia can act normally as a legislative and executive authority. We've always wanted to work smoothly. We have always been a constructive opposition and worked for the good of Slovenia and in the interest of the Slovenian people. In fact, the honourable Member, Mr Sašo Peče, has already been elected as the third member of the Slovenian National Party. He is a university-graduate economist, worked on a mandate-holder committee, a constitutional commission, an economic committee, a business commission. He was always prepared professionally - I say that because I also consider him a friend and we did a lot of things together. He was direct, honest, often uncompromising, and above all equal to all, whether written as a party left or right, he had an equal relationship with all. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we assess and believe that, despite the fact that we remain a constructive opposition, it would be right in the light of the professional and other abilities of our colleague, Saš Pečet, to say that for his appointment as Vice-President of the National Assembly, especially because we are aware that sometimes our debates are that I believe that many people, although often conflicted, are in the best interests of Slovenia and the Slovenian people, will be equally equal to each speaker, especially because I am convinced that at the time of his leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Žnidaršič also spoke as the first to be signed among the candidates for Master Vasja Klavora. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to speak a few words about our candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, this is about the primacy of Vasja Klavori, a doctor, a surgeon who in his environment in Posoča and in Goriška is highly respected and appreciated and is known by all this northern Primorska, but also by a wider professional circle in the country and is also known in the environment as a good and capable person. I think it is legitimate and in accordance with the rules that our party is also running for one of the two vice-presidents of the National Assembly that we love today, so it is not wrong for us to run for it, even though we are a small or smallest parliamentary party. At the same time, I would like to say that we have decided unitedly in the Group of Members to support it and we think that it is a good candidate, that it knows and has a sense of time dimension, which is extremely important at work. You all know that the National Assembly has wasted a lot of time without need, he's a man who wouldn't do it, and that's why I think that's the extra quality he has, and that's why I expect you to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. In accordance with the agreement of the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will today elect two vice-presidents of the assembly, the third, from the largest opposition parliamentary group, and we will vote later. The representatives of the proposers want to further explain their proposals - as we have already heard - I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Pavel Gantar, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me first congratulate you on your election and wish you the success of this responsible function. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, the position of the Liberal Democracy Group is brief and clear. As long as the composition of the coalition is not known, in our view it makes no sense to elect Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents, because we cannot know which will be the most powerful opposition party. The National Assembly is set up and can work and the election of Vice-Presidents has no significant impact on the fact that we are constituted and, of course, we can work. Subsequent replacements of vice-presidents or vice-presidents are possible, but they are also not appropriate, not from the point of view of the people who could occupy this city today, but soon because of the changed situation - because, as has been said, we will not yet, [[At least we don't know what the coalition will be.]] ; but it would be inappropriate for such a situation to be abandoned due to the changed circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u57	Thank you. Next announced is Mr. Miran Potrč, United List. The next one is Mr. Mag. Janez Petty Officer. He's quitting. Then Mr. Jakob the President is. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Franz Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Allow me to express our delegation's support to another elected or beloved Vice-President of the National Assembly. In this case, our parliamentary group will support a female candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u59	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Jože Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Congratulations are also sincere from my position. And before we elected the President of the National Assembly, I gave up the debate because others also explained the candidacy and I am pleased that all of today's nominations are proposed candidates who have already proven themselves in this national assembly or in this house. In particular, this house would be a place for an exchange of views, a city of controversy. For I believe and believe that this is not a bad thing; or, as the current President of the German Bundestag has said, that anyone who thinks that the controversy is something bad in Parliament, this is nothing more than a glimmer of democracy. And that is why I think it is important, especially today, when I stand in the party of the relative majority to advocate that this open word will actually be in this house. That there will be a fruitful dialogue among Members, and that is why I am pleased that colleague Pece is running for office, who has already proved here that he can appreciate this critical word in Parliament and today it is important to stand by that the opposition will always have its space open. It can't happen to lock down the position. The position and opposition are equally important and therefore I think it is necessary to combine this youth and experience that comes from the kind of Democratic Party of Pensioners and that these are good proposals. All the other proposals that we have heard in these days have been very good - Members, representatives of their own kind - and I think our National Assembly is developing in the right direction. I would be happy if we would support this national assembly in a majority way today. It is not insignificant that it is largely constituted, although it is possible that there will still be changes in the subsequent work, but that today we will assume that the electorate will be elected primarily by those who have actually taken their work so far to the point of parliamentaryism, to allow the state to come to a very high-quality legislation through the words of Members, so that we can then do what the Slovenian public expects us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to congratulate myself on my election to all my colleagues. So the question I'm asking is, of course, do we already have any coalition here in the National Assembly, do we have some serious coalition? The answer to my question is that we have at least a "ad hoc" coalition that will respond to important functions in the National Assembly, even before we have a serious one, I would say, a government coalition. I have a feeling that the buyer of "ad hoc" that it is important who, at a certain point in time, is going to seize a certain function. This could have been seen by the adoption of the agenda at the time of the enlargement of the agenda, this could have been seen in the election of the President of the National Assembly, and this became evident after we saw the nominations tabled. I don't think it's an accurate statement that has been made that it is necessary to elect two vice-presidents of the National Assembly under the rules of procedure today. That's what I think the College of the National Assembly agreed. Under the rules of procedure, it would also hold if only the President were elected or if all three Vice-Presidents were elected or any less. Of course, that's all possible. But it makes me realize, as I said, that some of the arrangements under the table had already been concluded and that it would be possible to predict what the final result would be. So "ad hoc", I'd say, maybe even a little bit of thoughtfulness can get those who do this in a certain future perspective into an awkward situation. It is also possible that all the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly will be of the opposition species. Of course, I'm not applying this or predicting that this will happen, but it's possible. Imagine, then, what will happen in the future ruling coalition with this premeditated, for example, future injustice, which is the result of reckless recruitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today we met for the first time in this term in the National Assembly, and it is right that at this meeting, even when we elected the new President, Mr Tsukjati, we also elect his right hand, the two Vice-Presidents. Some fellow Members wanted to assess Members before me whether they came from the left or from the right, candidates by quality, by personality. I would like to point out that, as a Member, I do not wish to judge my fellow Members in this way, as some of you have just done. You're all my co-workers, you've all been elected to the National Assembly on the basis of an election result, and we've all been given mandates today. It is true, however, that even after this vote, the image of the future coalition is likely to be more or less known in some way. There may be surprises, but the National Assembly must function and if the President is absent from the State of the Republic of Slovenia, he must have a Vice-President. It can happen that he will be invited to any country in Europe or the world next week and will not have a Vice-President. I think we must take this responsibility to elect from three candidates today at least one or two Vice-Presidents. As for who must be of the opposition or of the coalition, we have another option, the third candidacy will probably be submitted after formal or informal talks of the future coalition and we have not missed anything. That is why I appeal to all my fellow Members and Members that we also elect two Vice-Presidents today and that the work in the National Assembly is under way. About the quality of individuals. I am convinced that all of us who are sitting here today, who have been elected in any way to this National Assembly, are capable of acting as Vice-President - on the one hand. On the other hand, it is a political majority, the support that an individual candidate needs to receive, and it is up to us to do so in the voting below, and by voting we decide this and determine what the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tell us that the candidate must receive at least 46 votes. He who receives will also be given a mandate to serve as Vice-President in the future. And I want all those who will be elected today to be happy to work in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. Andrey Bajuk has the floor. He's quitting. Mr Stanislav Brenčič is next. He's quitting. Here comes Mr. Janez Petty Officer. He's quitting. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u66	I find it difficult to comment on one proposal tabled today, on a proposal for a Vice-President of the National Assembly on behalf of Mr Pečet. In fact, I have some of the memos from this mandate, and the page stopped on April 4th when we were having a discussion on the referendum. Then, among other things, Mr Pece said: "Human rights and similar nonsense; civil society, these are government lacquers." These are very dangerous words if I specifically project them into such an important city as to serve as a Vice-President of this National Assembly. It was not only in the mouth of Mr Pečet in the past work, but we also met with a proposal for a law that did not come up for consideration, and I am afraid that he will be able to come to the hearing. It's a law I'm running alone with a comment "Cinism is extremely borderless." This is a law on the Roma community, which has been tabled with Members, including the signing of Saša Peca. The Law on the Roma Community, as proposed by Members for consideration, has only three articles. The first article is general, the third article is the final provision and the second article states that members and members of the Roma community living in the Republic of Slovenia do not have special rights and special status. We do know, however, that we have Article 69 of the Constitution, which speaks of the Roma, where their rights are governed by law. And in some laws, not just one, we have regulated rights, special rights, Roma communities. What am I trying to say? That I'm afraid as long as we design the management of this important body in a way of intolerance and intolerance. This is where I feel these proposals are coming from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor. He's not here. Since there is no one else on the list of reported discussers, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee that leads the vote. These are: mag. Andrej Vizjak - SDS Group of Members, Mr Rudolf Moge - LDS Group of Members, Mr Aurelio Juri - Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and Mr Martin Mikolič - New Slovenia Group of Members. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members of Parliament present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. All candidates for Vice-President of the Assembly will be recorded on the vote in alphabetical order. The two candidates shall be voted on by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for which the majority of all Members will vote for the Vice-President will be elected, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Once again, round up the number before the candidate's name, we're voting for two vice presidents. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 4:20 p.m. and will last 20 minutes until 4:40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 5:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u68	We continue with the suspension of the fourth item, these are the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The vote took place on 22 October 2004 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 88 ballots were distributed. 88 ballots were delivered. There were no invalids - no voices. 88 ballots were valid. Members put the following number of votes to the individual candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly: for mag. Vasjo Klavoro 66 votes for Saš Pečeta 49 votes for mag. Majdo Spends 40 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. Vasja Klavora and Mr Sasha Pece. Both honest congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] Once again congratulations to the elected Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're closing the 4th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by temporary heads of the parliamentary groups proposing to the assembly that a mag be appointed Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Lovro Lončar. Would you like a representative of the motions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Rule 74, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats proposes that no decision be taken on the 5th item of the agenda, namely the appointment of the Secretary-General, today. We are convinced that decision-making is not necessarily necessary today. We are convinced that today's decision does not mean a good trip to the work of the National Assembly. We are also convinced that it would be more appropriate for all of us, not only for us, but also for a potential candidate, whom no one wants to say anything bad, to be able to assess his programme in the parliamentary groups through a meeting with him, to see his priorities, to agree on a joint work. The Secretary-General of the General Assembly must reflect, in the same way as the President or President, the willingness to cooperate in the same manner with all the Members' groups. Therefore, do not give Members' groups the opportunity to decide everything at one meeting, I do not think it is appropriate. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, think about it. Yesterday, we asked your representatives at the college not to do so, but the forced vote was formally correct, but nevertheless forced and today we have this item on the agenda. These are the reasons why I propose that you put our proposal to the vote and that you support the proposal that it be decided in the middle of the next week, when it is possible, even after the interviews in the parliamentary groups we usually have on Tuesdays - we can decide on Tuesday afternoons, evenings or even better Wednesdays - such a proposal. It probably wouldn't make any sense before that, but it would be possible on Wednesday. And no one will tell me that if we made a decision on Wednesday, the functioning of the National Assembly would be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Run. You heard the procedural proposal. There is no discussion on the procedural proposal. However, this was, as you have heard, a proposal to put the vote to a standstill. Since there is still a debate ahead of us, we will proceed with it in accordance with the decision of the national assembly to consider this item at this meeting, so we will proceed to the debate as envisaged. I will put a procedural proposal to the vote before the vote on the candidate. Here you go. Short, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u71	Mr President, our proposal is different. Our proposal is that even before the debate - because we do not want and cannot participate in the debate - because we do not have the necessary data, opinions and assessments to participate in the debate - it immediately votes and decides. If you decide later that the point is running, we will make the whole debate and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u72	If I understand correctly, then the proposal is to break the point and proceed later. However, the Rules of Procedure give the representatives of the delegations of the groups on this proposal earlier. I am opening a debate on the procedural proposal. Representatives of parliamentary groups should be able to participate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Scholch, as LDS representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr President, the proposal is reasonable and is in the context of what I said at the outset. However, it allows for a formal correct submission of the proposal to be made during this time available. You are now elected president, the National Assembly has Vice-Presidents, we have temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups, and you can convene a college, which is the only one who is acting as acting motion for the appointment of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. If this postponement did not occur, he would later be forced to offer some procedural proposals to resolve the legality of this procedure; I am not talking about Mr Lončar as a candidate for running the services of the National Assembly, which we would like to talk about in the UK Group. My black memory goes back to the fact that the then candidate for the management of these services also presented her work programme in all the parliamentary groups. However, such a proposal would be supported at this time and would thus open the way for the undisputed appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. By the way, I think it'll remain a shadow of doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u74	Thank you. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups would like an explanation? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal for the 5th item of the agenda to be terminated and to continue at one of the following meetings. We're starting the vote. Thank you. There are 85 Members present, 31 votes against 52. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 52.]] We are therefore continuing to address the item on the agenda. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the candidacy that is ahead of you. First of all, Mr Rudi Petan, Slovenian Democratic Party, has been announced on the agenda of the debaters. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u75	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to sincerely congratulate you on your election and on your approval of your mandates. But now I think we can also go to this point of content. We have before us the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. This function is very important for the work of the National Assembly and especially the Members. For the Secretary-General runs the services of the National Assembly and these services are served by Members in our work. On the other hand, it should also be noted that good conditions and creating a positive atmosphere among employees are an important condition for the good work of the institution’s services, which is the pillar of the legislative authority in each country, that is, the Republic of Slovenia. Following a decree on the internal organisation of jobs and titles in the services of the National Assembly, its tasks are primarily to organise and coordinate the work of the services of the National Assembly in the performance of works and tasks for the National Assembly as an institution, for the working bodies of the National Assembly, for the parliamentary groups and, as I have already mentioned, for the purpose of ensuring the uniform functioning of these services. Finally, it is also concerned about the development of the organisation of work and services in this institution. On the other hand, there is something else that needs to be found that there are new challenges and new challenges ahead of Slovenia. Since this year Slovenia is also a full member of NATO and of the European Union, which increases the scope of the tasks of the institutions of the State, i.e. the National Assembly, as the pillar of the legislative branch of power. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is not the same as adapting European legislation or, on the other hand, implementing obligations arising from the rights and obligations of full membership in an organisation such as the European Union and NATO. This means that the real tasks and obligations of this status are yet to come, including for the National Assembly. Now allow me a few specific words about the candidate himself. Mr Lovro Lončar completed his master's degree in the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Kranj in the field of general staff management in May. This is said to be the very area which is still difficult for the work of the Secretary-General and how important and also important for knowledge. He graduated from the higher administrative school in Ljubljana and then from the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Kranj. His work to date over a period of 13 years mainly includes work in the field of public administration. The work experience in secretarial posts is in both the field of local self-government, the executive branch and the legislative branch of government since 2001. From 1995 to 1998, he was secretary at the local level in local self-government and later secretary at the University of Ljubljana University of Administration, and in June 2000, he was appointed secretary-general at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Since February 2001, he has served as Secretary of the SDS Group of Members in the National Assembly. Clearly, then, there is sufficient experience in such works. With his work so far in various jobs, he has demonstrated the ability to coordinate and manage the various services, which is very important for the post of Secretary-General. In addition to his experience and competence, it is worth mentioning that the Special Competition Commission of the Official Council for the conduct of the public tender for the position of the Director of the Personnel Service of the Government of Slovenia in December 2003 issued a decision to him as the only candidate to find that he fulfils the conditions and is, in the light of his professional competence, suitable for the position of the Director of the Personnel Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that the appointment was not realized later on for unknown reasons, despite the fact that it was the only candidate who met all the conditions. For these facts, we will support the appointment of Mr Lovr Lončar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the SDS Group of Members, and at the same time ask Members and Members for the widest possible support. In doing so, we should thank the Secretary-General for her work so far, no matter how it ends, which has not always been pleasant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u77	Nicely greeted! If it was understandable in the previous paragraph that we had used the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure on this subject, we could also do this in two-thirds of the time, then it is certainly true in this point that we are going beyond the Rules of Procedure and, above all, this is what a difficult person accepts as being a reasonable thing to do. However, it is clear that the Secretary-General is the highest representative of the administration in the National Assembly, taking care of smooth operation on the one hand, i.e. carrying out professional administrative, technical and other tasks that provide conditions for the work of the National Assembly and, on the other hand, what is most important is that the legislative procedure is carried out smoothly, which is why we are all sitting here. So it's a force that's important, complex and responsible. At times, the Secretary-General was also in the concept of some comparable arrangements in similar parliaments, such as Slovenia, a consultant to the President of the National Assembly or Parliament, or later turned himself into, above all, an administrative, technical and smaller part of the political, if I say so, the head of Parliament. It is, however, that we are today establishing this national assembly with all the highest functions, including the Secretary-General, for a period of four years and that, regardless of the coalitions, legislative procedures will take place in this National Assembly, it will be necessary to create appropriate conditions and it is unreasonable and unfair for Mr Loncar to give us all the opportunity to discuss properly all the advantages, all the weaknesses, far from saying anything about Mr Loncar today, except that I know, after what others tell me that he is being corrected in his work. And in order for the SDS to expose him in this way and not to try to find together with all of us those advantages, those weaknesses that have been in the way of working in the National Assembly so far, we have all had a lot of comments over the work of the Secretary-General, which has not been politically set up. We've been talking about this for three months, and I know it doesn't come from any political option. And how important it is to try to figure out which things are flawed, which need to be changed, what is illogical. I know this is hard work, and that's what's waiting for us. Also in connection with the Rules of Procedure, including in connection with the Law on Public Servants and the implementing acts provided for in this Act and so on. You can even make someone laugh at that. But I have these responsibilities [[...]] [[Comments from the bench.]] No, no, Mr. Zamernik, gentlemen I look at you and, of course, in this context it is very wrong to actually have here today a real half-page presentation, which, in my firm belief, reminds me of a CV or some trace of a job you might find in 1965, 1975, 1985, 1995 and 2005. [[...]] It is true that, from this point of view, only that the gentleman was a close associate of one of the senior SDS officials. There is nothing wrong with this, but it is only out of this that we can understand, but not how 90 Members will be able to participate in what we will do together. And we regret that you do not give us the opportunity to take responsibility for such an important function, we all take on the candidate and we really support him and we are planning these future tasks together. Even more so because the temporary leaders agreed on Monday at their first meeting to find a proposal and coordinate it and to refer it to the national assembly. If this proposal is harmonised, the agenda will also be extended. No, that didn't happen. There was a unilateral proposal, and after that - as was seen at point 2 - there was an agreement to make a coalition on Friday 22.10. for election at the preceding points, and I have no doubt that this will also be elected. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not right and it is not a good trip for our work if it is only up to that that one vote more or one vote less on the one side or the other, especially in the position I spoke about, namely, the role of Secretary-General of the General Assembly and not the Secretary-General of the Coalition and not the Secretary-General of the Government and not the Secretary-General of any one other than the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. In this respect, I regret, Mr President, that you cannot follow what you said a few hours ago, that it still hurts if the rules of procedure are not respected. It's been a pain to me ever since we worked together, and to this, and to the previous ones who broke. Unfortunately, you've had a lot of opportunities to call a college, you haven't decided that, because it's probably true what you said -- the Secretary-General will just do what we tell him to do. I truly apologize to Mr Lončar for not being able to say anything but that I know about him that he is being corrected - this comes from our parliamentary group, from those people who worked with him - and that he will probably understand it himself - too little to establish such confidence at this point in time, so that we can clap. The way we came to this is unacceptable to us. However, it is an opportunity before the vote to hold that round of talks with temporary leaders, with presentations by sent-off groups, and to eliminate this mistrust, if you wish, before the appointment. I don't have much hope that this is going to happen, but it's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Stanislav Brenčič is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, I warmly welcome you and, at the same time, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I congratulate both elected Vice-Presidents! In our parliamentary group, we want what some have been stressing for some time now that this house, which we call the National Assembly or the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, would be a perfect, complete image both on the outside and on the inside. It is precisely for this reason and experience in these eight years, as many of us are present here, that we find that we need change in the system of internal organisation of the national assembly. It is impossible for the whole function of managing, managing, monitoring and ultimately establishing an internal service structure to be built on the same person, which must therefore be a permanent service directly in the management of meetings. Therefore, in the functioning of the National Assembly, the post of Director should be established, or if we call it the manager of the house, and, of course, as only the meeting of the Secretary-General needs to be conducted. Unfortunately, this must also be regulated in the organisational acts that provide for the functioning of the National Assembly. That is why I also understand how the Secretary-General of the National Assembly has found herself in a difficult situation so far, and it has also been very difficult to move all the tasks ahead. However, as I said, we must first agree in the National Assembly to consider this possibility. But I think it would be good to also win some new leadership approach. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the proposal that has been tabled here, and we can also make a very peaceful decision on the basis of Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure for a proposal that is acceptable to us. Mag. We know Lončar's Lovra, at least some who have survived the last term here, as a proper, calm man who is willing in some way to listen to different views. After this salary, we find ourselves a very acceptable person to be the Secretary-General of the General Assembly, and we will, of course, support him. At the same time, we would like to thank her as a member group, and even those Members, who we have spent eight years with the secretary-general so far, for the proper work done, for a lot of genuine relations, but, as I said earlier, this city and the new secretary-general will also be exposed to often insurmountable situations and, of course, it is good if we understand it then. We will support the proposal and that is essentially all I want to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues. I will make a very brief and concise statement on the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and also directly. We have not stood on the same stage many times with the Secretary-General in the past period, and we have looked at all the problems we have encountered in the same way. We tell you this with all the gratitude for the good done directly to your face. Our assessment is that there have been many worse experiences than there have been good experiences in our cooperation. But it was both. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party, as we have already pointed out twice today, we want the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to begin its smooth work as soon as possible, so that its operational function is first and least disturbed. This recognises the importance of the Secretary-General, whoever he is. And thirdly, colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the opposition, we have been there for a long time and we are used to it. 25. Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that there is no doubt that today we may or may not talk about the appointment of the Secretary-General. Article 2 clearly states that the Secretary-General shall appoint a national assembly on a proposal from the College for a period until the end of the term of office of the National Assembly appointed by him. The proposal of the college, according to the information we have, on behalf of the parliamentary group, was - allow me to conclude - Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 3 - of the draft agenda for the first meeting of the National Assembly, containing the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission, the confirmation of the terms of office of Members and the election of the President of the National Assembly, and may also include the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Working Bodies and the appointment of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly. The facts are perfectly clear in the Rules of Procedure, the possibility that it could have been used [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u82	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we understand! I recall, my fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy, your words relating to the area of internal policy, the so-called legal innocence, where it was told that it was not proven guilty, is innocent. I remind you that maybe a little metaphorical, look at this, if it's not forbidden, it's allowed or vice versa, it's allowed, it's not forbidden, it can write. If conditions are given to the extent that I have the data, the conditions have been given, the college has proposed, the college has adopted on the basis of Article 25, which is why we are deciding today. That's how it is. Well, dear colleagues, we respect Rules 25 and 12 of the Rules of Procedure as we understand it. The information we have is what it is. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will also show, in the Slovenian National Party, that the Secretary-General is being appointed today and we will also support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u84	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Andrej Vizjak, the first to be reported, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I do not understand what we should be violating our rules of procedure to elect today the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. I could even read Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the College and which tells how the College is drawn up. It is quite clear that the proposal by the College is correct and that we can also vote at the first meeting of the new Secretary-General of the National Assembly. This is entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure in force. I'm sure that's why we'd need a more substantial argument why it doesn't. In fact, it is my opinion that it is very useful for the effective work of Parliament and of all of us to form all the services in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also to allow the new Secretary-General of the National Assembly to manage the services of the National Assembly and perform all the functions which are linked and determined by the Rules of Procedure and other acts of the National Assembly. In fact, I think it is irresponsible that we leave a vacuum or some inadequacy below and that the national assembly begins to work as quickly as possible. This, I hope, is the task of all Members and Members. Last but not least, as I am aware, the current secretary-general of the National Assembly, in fact, by letter, is in some way calling for this to happen as soon as possible. I therefore believe that the proposal is not only corrected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but even necessary in view of the effective and smooth work of the legislative branch as soon as possible. We cannot allow ourselves to be free of the running of services and of other important matters, even at a time when we have more than half of the new Members and Members in this composition and we need to do things in an organisational sense. This is as far as the rules of procedure and the content of today's item are concerned. As for the person proposed, I know Mr Lovr Lončar very well. I have worked with him on many projects, both in the government and in Parliament. I think it's an important professional function and it's a professional person and it's actually written as an order for this function. Education, the work experience so far, and not least his, I would say that the approach as a man to various ideas, initiatives and proposals is broad and allows for a critical assessment of proposals both by the position and by the opposition. I think that's what can lead us to a positive decision today. I can't even understand the argument that there's no way to get to know each other. There have always been opportunities, and there are also today, and I see no reason, so this debate is not the end of the day. There is no vote on the decision without discussion. I think that all the grounds are, and in fact, the need for Parliament to vote on this decision today or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u87	Man really doesn't know what to say. It's a sacred appeal or something. The College shall be established only when the Members have confirmed mandates when we form the parliamentary groups, we shall appoint the leaders and the elected President, who shall convene the College. The second point of Article 25 is indisputably said: "The Secretary-General shall appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the College for a period until the end of the term of office of the National Assembly appointed by him." This week's meetings were held in the framework of the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups elected on the same names. It's a long way from college. [[...]] [[Comments from the bench.]] Yes, of course it does. This is the minutes of the meeting he suggested to you. However, the Colleges have not yet met and the Colleges are proposing to the Secretary-General. You obviously understood that this was a rapid intervention and quiet liquidation group, not for, as I understood it was in a hurry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u88	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u89	I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. [[...]] However, we could sit here by tomorrow morning or by midnight, interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, the President would convene a college, some already have formed parliamentary groups, some leaders would go to the President and agree, could be done today, the leaders would say, it is possible, or we want the candidate to come to us in the parliamentary group, to discuss some things. I think that's a good idea. But certainly because it is agreed - I have already already, in fact yesterday it was clear to me when Mr Pece with a smile on his face supported the proposal that today it will go on the agenda to happen exactly what it is. Election of the President, election of the Vice-President of the SNS and appointment of the Secretary-General overruled. I told my colleagues and colleagues that yesterday, but that's also possible. Just don't, Mr President, argue that this is in accordance with the rules of procedure. Once again, this proposal was not proposed by the heads or colleges, but was proposed by the meeting of the temporary leaders of the groups, the Members elected on the lists of names. This is quite another thing, and even though this will continue from this day forward, it is likely that all Members from the same lists will join the same groups of Members from which they came. I guess so. However, I suppose, as was the case today with the deadline that some of them "smoke" went elsewhere, they were no longer in those groups in which they were elected. That's all possible. But today we have a situation when there's a proposal, really, on the table, but he's been raped. He's been raped, believe me. And I am also saying, I am only sorry that I will have to abstain because I do not want to wrong Mr Lončar because I do not have the opportunity to create an impression from these six lines on how to coordinate the work of the 350-member collective at the level of services that provide technical care, professional services, public relations, financial operations, etc. The most important thing for me, and believe me, is how the legislative process is going to proceed and where we can improve things. I believe that he has a lot of experience and much to say which things might need to be changed in the Rules of Procedure. Together, we would make a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, because we still need 60 votes. It would probably be useful, but that's why it takes some time, some kind of arrangement, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u90	Thank you. However, I have to explain to some of the obvious that this is an illegal or anti-business matter, to mention that temporary leaders of the sent groups are the legal leaders of the sentinel groups, but temporarily. The temporary college is a college led by Mr Horvat and has the opportunity to do what he has done. This is said to have proposed a candidate for consideration and a vote. We are now continuing the debate. Mr Aloise Sok was next reported. Thanks, he's canceling. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in point 3 states that the draft agenda for the first meeting shall contain, and then lists, and in the end reads, the appointment of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. I think it's a matter, nothing's easy, Mr. Skull, read it to yourself, and you'll see it's not easy, but it's hard, as far as we can see. If you were to think a little better and read something better, especially if you were not to cooperate with this Rules of Procedure and accept it against opposition desires, then you could be quiet today, and so be quiet, because today we are working on an act that you have poorly prepared and misadopted. In the Slovenian National Party we have warned you for four years that you are doing bad, today this has been proven, but today it must go on like this, next time make changes to the Rules of Procedure, and we will work on it. It was said that it was a forced vote in college, that it was an improper vote. Gentlemen, what has happened is that I will not speak in previous mandates in the final term of 2000-2004. How many forced votes and incorrect votes have there been? All if we take it that way and measure it by your standards and so don't sleep here with the ashes and don't make out of it I don't know what tragedy. This is how it happened, the electorate and the electorate have decided, shown a clear desire for what they want, and this assembly is legitimate, and in addition to being legal, since we had approved mandates. The fact is, we have the right to make decisions. However, if you are in pain that you no longer have an absolute majority, with which you can spread through and through Slovenia and do what you want, that is your business. Turn to the electorate, and perhaps if we went to the polls again, we'd get even less. It was said that the new President or the new Secretary-General or Secretary-General of the National Assembly was to be prepared to cooperate with all parliamentary groups. I fully agree, and I think that he will certainly be more prepared to cooperate than the Secretary of the National Assembly, who was willing to cooperate only with the largest group of Members, perhaps with the United Nations Group and perhaps DeSUS, and then it was over. She was certainly not prepared to cooperate with the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anything has happened and we will therefore be most pleased to support this new candidate in order to replace the secretary-general so far. I think it will be necessary to search and search for a lot of suspicious and strange transactions, including the rental of those premises in Tomšičeva, on the other hand of the National Assembly, for some money, how, under what conditions. Twice, the parliamentary group has requested documents on this matter, and we have not received an answer from the Secretary-General, but it is of a public character and we should see the contract under which this was concluded and concluded. I'm asking you very nicely, what a hoax to be here right now! It's terrible, it's hard, it's bad! We were hard 12 years old, we were in opposition for 12 years, and we will still be in opposition, and we have always been constructive opposition, and we will now, too, but for the first time that something has happened in this national assembly, for the first time since 12 years. But of course, some of them hurt, of course they do. Some were very accustomed to their warm chairs, here a tentacles, there a tentacles, everywhere something leaked and gathered in small pools. I hope that this is over now and that those tentacles will shut down to see where those tentacles are headed and where those tentacles are taking them. I understand that some people don't have a good time. To return to the secretary general. We'll support him, we'll help him, and we'll count on his help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u92	Thank you. The next word is Mr Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Apparently, opposition A and opposition B will be established in the National Assembly, so from this point of view nothing new, with a compliment to the national party, opposition A remains the same as it was, only in the B point has it changed. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debates at the election of the President, the Vice-Presidents, and also now show that work in this National Assembly will sometimes be very, very difficult not to say, sometimes also brought to the brink of despair; I just hope that someone on my left will not really give up. Today, those who teach us the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure, despite the constitutional decisions, the referendum decisions with the majority, have shouted that there is no God to force him to decide and listen to the people here today, sharing the teachings that are necessary. I would like to tell you something: you will not experience arrogance on this side; you will experience respect for the acts adopted, respect for the rules adopted and the Constitution. You won't find the arrogance here. I am very sorry that we are discussing all possible, rules, interpretations, different interpretations of the Rules and Acts, but we are not dealing with a person, Lovr Lončar. I'll do it myself in a few words, if you'll excuse me. He is a man who has always stood behind his decisions, a man who, in addition to his hard work as a secretary of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has also made a master's degree, and is the father of two children, a man who, despite his family's responsibilities, has always consistently and correctly fulfilled his duties - a man who, at least I know him so well, is an excellent friend, and believe me, will be consistent with each Member and every Member, regardless of opposition A, B or the position from which Members and Members come. So with all my heart and all my responsibility, I will confirm it for this city. He is coming to a place that we can also call the Director of the National Assembly, and I will be happy if, in the near future, you realize that my words are correct and justified. I will also thank Mrs Jožica Velišček for her work in my own name and, of course, I wish her much good in the future! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Školč has a word for the replica, he should have given it before Mr Jelinčič has finished. Excuse me! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I would like to say, above all, to Mr Jelinčič, who is very concerned with these "pictures", that we are not talking about how many votes have expired through this "pice" as Vice-President of Mr Pečet and how the "pice" must now be turned in a different direction, because it is not really a question, but it is a question of how the Secretary-General of the State Assembly is elected. He overlooked a word that he also said, I think that the current President, when he was still proposing this proposal, overlooked where article 12 states what is a mandatory component of the constitutional session and what is what might happen. The appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall also be one of these matters which the National Assembly may hold at a constitutional session. There's no doubt about that. But for this appointment to take place, it is also necessary to take into account other very clear provisions of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. And the second very clear provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the Article already cited, which speaks of the college as the one proposing to the State Assembly the election of the Secretary-General. In this process, even if we are discussing whether it was a college or not, a mistake has been made, which, independently, puts it into question. College work is generally public. These preparatory meetings for this meeting of the National Assembly were closed to the public. From this point of view, this procedural assumption is also flawed. And what I'm saying here, those who have known me for a very long time, you know that I insist on things that I think are right, no matter who benefits them. It is that we appoint the Secretary-General without a shadow of doubt. From this point of view it is simple [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u96	Mr. Skolcz, this is already a debate, this is no longer a replica and I would ask you to stay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u97	I'm sorry. Then I'll say the second part, I'll give up another debate if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u98	Did you finish the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u99	Over here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Andrey Bajuk has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Here comes Mr. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. So that there is no doubt about the shadow, let me also point out that the rules of procedure should be seen as a whole. It also contains Article 15, which expressly points out that only if the General Secretary is not elected or appointed by the General Assembly at the first meeting is obliged to do so within 30 days. That's supposed to be an extension, not a rule. And that the Rules of Procedure lead to the fact that, of course, it is necessary to do so at the first meeting. That is how we can do this today without any problems. As for the authority of the body that prepared this proposal - I certainly agree with the President of the National Assembly - that he had all the powers in this part. As one of the colleagues from LDS was disturbed earlier because I smiled when he spoke; you know, I would point out to Churchill's words when he said "even if I think differently than you, if I do otherwise, I will do anything to allow you to express your opinion and I will respect him, but also allow me to act in my own way and to express my opinion in my own way." And you know, I understand you and respect that you have been showing quite long faces since October 3rd, but please, you also understand those who have been smiling since October 3rd and, given the election results, these in Slovenia are the majority, and I think that is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. He's quitting. The next one is Mr. Petty Officer. Mr. Petty Officer, you have the floor. He's quitting. The next on the list of panellists is Mrs Majda Shirca. Excuse me? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I will not discuss the proposal, a lot has already been said. But I would ask and warn you that you use both sexes when you're addressing them, which you're not doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u104	Thanks for the heads-up. Mr. Anton Kokalj is next. He's quitting. Mr. Joseph Scholch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u105	Thank you very much. So, President, I'm afraid it's up to you, whether we remove this shadow or not. We have before, I would say, the first test a few hours ago given a promise that you will always and everywhere give priority to written rules, regardless of whether they benefit position or opposition. I used to say how this situation was created in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure when the Secretary-General was elected. I repeat, it may be elected at a constitutional session, but according to the rules in force. It is therefore up to you, above all, whether you will convene a college before the decision is taken and the college will be the proposer of this already known proposal. Only in this way will we really see what is meant by what has been said here, added value in the conduct of the national assembly. The rejection of some procedural initiatives could, however, be considered to have received beautiful but empty promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u106	Thank you. I must explain that the proposal was proposed by the College. The agenda was confirmed at a meeting of the National Assembly at the beginning. The proposal to suspend the meeting at this point was also rejected. I no longer have any tools to test the already tested opinion of the National Assembly. Therefore, since there is no one else on the list of discussers, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Mr Lončar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Even earlier, honourable Members and Members, let me mention that the previous attempt to photograph the entire national assembly failed because there were too few Members who were warned about this in the Chamber. I therefore ask that we meet immediately after the vote and the conclusion of the meeting on the staircase at the entrance and perpetuate the beginning of our mandate with a photograph. Thanks for understanding. We're moving to the vote. Please explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u107	Thank you, President. Given that I expected that we would, however, without interrupting the meeting, take the time to meet the candidate in the parliamentary groups, and I myself wanted to contribute with my vote to the appointment of someone to represent all of us. That didn't happen. Don't blame me if I don't give my vote to his appointment today. This, of course, assumes all responsibility, normally, by the proposers and those who will appoint him. But I'm warning you, it's not right. In the previous term, I have heard Mrs Veliškova, we have met in the parliamentary group, we have been able to ask her questions, she has explained how she will work, and on the basis of this discussion we have also decided to support her; in the previous mandate, we have also decided to support her. That is why I do not think that it is good to decide quickly who will be our secretary-general. From this title, I declare a abstention vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u108	Allow me, I must kindly say that at the College of the National Assembly, the opportunity was offered to all representatives of the parliamentary groups to go to a single parliamentary group to talk, but only some parliamentary groups took advantage of this opportunity. So the possibility of such a conversation was. I'm asking if anyone else has a wish to explain their voice. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I will not repeat what my colleague Aurelio Yuri said. I'm announcing we're going to be a magician. The potter is asked if he will and will probably be appointed to come and talk to him because we want to have the right relationship. However, I only volunteered to make an incorrect assessment of the President's last statement. If, from Thursday afternoon to 10 a.m., he gave us an opportunity to decide on the invitation, to invite us, to have a conversation and to be satisfied with the content, then I imagine how Mr President imagines proper action in the National Assembly. Mr President, don't act like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-01.ana.u110	Thank you. Does anyone else have an explanation for the vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting! There are 81 members present, 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda item as well as the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
