ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, we wanted to meet at a meeting with a rather difficult agenda and also some hot topics before the parliamentary holidays were officially due. I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following fellow Members: Roberto Battelli, Ivan Kebrič and Anton Partljič. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items on the agenda and the representative of the Anti-Corruption Commission to the 2nd item of the agenda. I welcome all the invitees present, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Anton Ropa, ministers and ministers, secretaries of state and secretaries and nice greetings are, of course, also applicable to the Secretary-General of the Government and to representatives and representatives of the media and all others present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 50th extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. However, we have proposals for an extension of the agenda, namely, the College of the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other countries, the successors of the former SFRY, in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence registered in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Colleague Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have put forward several proposals to extend today's extraordinary meeting as the chairman or president of the National Assembly. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party, it would be reasonable and wise for this National Assembly, at the time of the conclusion of its work, to make its work a little more credible than so far and to include the system law between the second and third readings in today's procedure. This would prevent the National Assembly from carrying out a referendum if it followed the will of the Constitutional Court or the instructions of the Constitutional Court that it was an unconstitutional law, thereby restoring to the Slovenian State the reputation it had before the story of the deleted had even begun and for which we estimate, at least in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, that it casts a negative light. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it would make sense for the National Assembly to be included in an extraordinary meeting today, as we proposed to you seven days ago at the first college, as we proposed to you at the re-college yesterday, including the system law in third reading, and that we are not considering the referendum decision, because in such a case the referendum decree would be completely irrelevant. At the same time, the National Assembly would finally be able to achieve what it was trying to achieve throughout its mandate to complete the story deleted within a year and seven months. I would end the story deleted in such a way that it would not embarrass the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who believed in Slovenia and all those who fought for Slovenia. I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party for the inclusion of a system law in today's extraordinary meeting and move away from the referendum decree. Not only would the National Assembly avoid paying the referendum costs, for which it is true that if they were held together with the elections, they would be slightly lower, but above all, more importantly, it would no longer tire the Slovenian countries with such a trivial matter as self-exposure. Please support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Thank you. Let me explain that the college discussed this proposal at yesterday's meeting and found that the proposal could not be accepted, since the proposal for consideration for inclusion on the agenda does not meet the conditions given the fact that a request for a referendum and a human initiative has been submitted for a referendum for this law. This is the reason why the law cannot be considered in the third reading. Any other parliamentary group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Mr President, please, if you could repeat the vote, because my fellow Member's voting apparatus is not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u5	I'm calling off the vote. Check the apparatus again if it works. Comrade Petty Officer, is he all right? A colleague of Tisovic's? Okay. We're voting again. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 68, for 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Assembly will address this item under agenda item 1.a. Second sentence. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda should be extended by a point of discretion, in which we will consider a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The 74 Members and Members present voted 57 against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as the 1st item of the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting should set a agenda, as you have accepted it with invitations and amendments and additions adopted. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the agenda of the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis - on the defensive interpretation of the part of the government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for interpretation was tabled by a group of 11 Members with first-signed Janez Janša. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to explain the interpretation. Time is available for 90 minutes for one or both of the applicants. Here you go, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, distinguished members and members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution, Members of the Slovenian Coalition submitted an interpretation of the government's work and responsibility on 30 July. Interpellation is a public issue that triggers a debate on the functioning of the government. Interpellation is an instrument of parliamentary control over the government, which in parliamentary democracy confirms the government's responsibility to elected representatives of the people and voters in general. We have tabled the interpretation at a time that is appropriate for the discussion of the government's work. The Government's mandate is to expire and Members of the National Assembly have the right to draw the Government's attention on behalf of citizens and citizens of Slovenia to unfulfilled promises, mistakes, harmful acts and also untapped opportunities. This is a constitutional task of the opposition, this is our responsibility to the Slovenes and Slovenes, to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. By interpolation, we ask the government to deposit accounts at the end of its term of office in a national assembly whose constitutional function is to control the government's work. In its response to the interpolation, the government denies the legitimate right to interpolate and makes it clear that the abuse of this constitutional institute is being misused. It also argues that the timing of the intervention is inappropriate and that we abuse the State Assembly for political and pre-election purposes. Let's see what he says about this profession. The textbook The Constitutional Administration of Slovenia of authors France Grad, Cyril Ribičič, Rudija Kocjančič and Igor Kavčič on page 102 states that interpretation is a special form of the Government's exercise of responsibility in Parliament. It is stated at the same place that interpolation is considered a special form of the question of the Member State, which may trigger a special hearing and may also lead to a vote. In doing so, the authors state that it is not necessary for the vote to end with a statement of non-trust; it can only be debated and it can end with a statement by Parliament. And that's the kind of interpolation it's all about. We ask the government questions, we expect answers and also excuses for unfulfilled promises and missed opportunities. We want to discuss its work and express our position. The Government of Mr Anton Rope, who legitimately refers to the use of the Constitutional Institute as an abuse, obviously has difficulty understanding basic democratic principles, in particular the principle of government responsibility. With regard to the timing of the intervention, I repeat that the time at which the mandate expires is most appropriate for the discussion of the government's work. A responsible and courageous government, a government without bad conscience at the end of its term of office, would come alone with a message to the National Assembly. I would like to launch my own debate on my successes and failures. The irresponsible government without courage, and the government, which is the fifth of the bad news, is running away from responsibility and instead of putting the bills back, the taxpayer's money has a new strategy that promises what she promised four years ago in the next 10 years, and it has not done so. A responsible and courageous government would like to move the parliamentary debate on its work as close as possible to parliamentary elections. The government of Mr Rope, however, has requested coalition Members to convene an extraordinary meeting to discuss interpolation as soon as possible, from which we conclude that it wants this cup to pass through it in as safe a time as possible from the upcoming parliamentary elections. In fact, the government coalition put the debate on government work on its own agenda and brought it to the time of the electoral campaign. Government clients have problems both with responsibility and with programs. The Slovenian Democratic Party, which, together with Novo Slovenije, has submitted this interpretation, has already launched a clear vision and clear objectives on 15 July and an electoral programme prepared by the Council of Experts, which has already been presented to the public and is available on our website since 15 July. On this website, there are also public replicas of the professional council to the government's response to the input of interpolation, which today, due to the undemocratic limitation of time, will not be fully available. The public presentation of the programme we made allowed us to confront opinions and arguments. We have invited the Prime Minister and ministers to this public presentation. No one came. They were all invisible. This was not possible because none of the government parties had yet presented their programme for the next term. This was done only by the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party on July 15th, Nova Slovenija yesterday. And we're still waiting for government clients. There were no job reports until we put in the interpolation, there were no programs, but there was a lot of talk. All Members, including those who received their mandate in July as alternate Members after the European Members have left for the European Parliament, will receive a full salary for August and September. Not only is it not unacceptable that the National Assembly is also working this month, as the government wants to show, but we believe that it is perfectly normal for Members to earn their wages in the last months of the mandate with the work for which we are paid. Now, briefly to the subject of interpolation itself. The essence of the interpolation could collide into three points. Firstly, the government under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy has failed to deliver on the many promises made to the voters and voters at the beginning of the term of office in 2000 and 2002. In fact, it should be added here that many of the promises made at the beginning of 2000 have been made by the Liberal Democrats in particular since 1996 and some have not been made in 1992 and are now in the government programme again by 2013. Clearly, it is counting on the short memory of voters and manipulation, the part of which is that the government does not report at the end of its term of office on what it has done and what it has not done and can again promise what it has already promised once has not been done. The second point of interpolation is the fact that the government, under the leadership of Liberal Democracy, has not managed the country well in the 2000-2004 term, which has led Slovenia to miss a number of opportunities for more successful and faster development, opportunities that some other transition countries have taken advantage of significantly better. And the third point is the fact that the government is responsible for the spread of clientism and corruption, which has never been as dramatic as in this part of the mandate or in the last years of this mandate. To a large extent also because the same political forces have been in power for 12 years, on a thick basis since then. The comparisons between the promises given and the actual situation show that many important promises have not been fulfilled. They show how much the government counts for the word, what its credibility is, and how the government underestimates the electorate and the electorate as well as their memory. The data provided in the interpolation also show that Slovenia has missed many opportunities because of the poor part of the government. Slovenia is a successful country today because of its strong and successful independence and because of the diligence, ingenuity and ability of Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of Slovenia. If the government provided an appropriate environment for the development of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to reduce tax burdens to a reasonable degree, to ensure payment discipline and effective resolution of litigation and to remove a number of administrative obstacles still affecting entrepreneurs, Slovenia would be even more successful today. Of course, in four years the government has also done many good. Economic growth has also been positive at this time. No one's denying it. But this growth was far from, for the first time, promised, and for the second time necessary. However, poor governance with the country is mainly reflected in the following areas. First time. Unfavourable environment for the development of entrepreneurship, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Particularly high taxes, poor financial discipline, slow resolution of litigation, ineffective state subsidies. The slow growth shown in lagging behind transition countries such as Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Slovakia. Unfulfilled promises to reduce public debt. A stable budget deficit also in 2004, when the government promised a surplus. Excessive tax burdens on work and abnormally low tax burdens on capital. Catastrophe situation in the field of judicial backlog. High unemployment rates in half of Slovenian regions. Major developmental differences between regions. Unfulfilled promises to complete the construction of the highway cross. Expensive spending of public, i.e. total taxpayer's money. Failure of health reform with large amounts of money spent on domestic and foreign advisers. Inconceivable and harmful renovation of primary school. Unregulated state in the area of public sector wages, as the government has failed to implement the wage reform project. Something general about the government's answers to these questions and the insights from the interpretation. Instead of responding to criticism of unfulfilled promises and missed opportunities, the government submitted a partial report on a four-year work in which it does not actually respond to criticism. With a comprehensive document, it attempts to blur the essence of the proposed interpretation, this is a debate on its unfulfilled promises, mistakes and unfulfilled developmental opportunities of Slovenia. This is as if business owners were asking the director to explain to them the reasons for the missed market opportunities and he would throw a business report on production or sales at their table. We asked a question, the government answered another. In response to interpolation, the government boasts in particular the quantity of work done. There is no right for a government of this kind to do so. The government pays 33,000 officials via public money, costing Slovenian taxpayers over 100 billion tolars a year. There is a great deal to be done for this money in quantitative terms and, in our view, it is a bit distasteful to boast. The report has over 350 pages. This was the first compliment of this report. Let me say that Dr Dimitrij Rupel, a former member of the government at the time, wrote a book containing 700 pages without having 33,000 paid officials at his disposal. The government has activated the entire government apparatus in its defense. The Secretary-General, Mr Bandel, has called on all ministries and government services to review the coalition treaty and report on the fulfilment of the commitments contained in this political document. State officials paid for by taxpayers had to read documents on political party promises and write defences to maintain the political position of Prime Minister and Ministers, while the professional basis for this mere interpretation was prepared free of charge by a group of experts gathered in the SDS expert council without the support of military officials. In this way, the Government has abused the state administration in the preparation of this report and has dealt unfairly with state officials who have been placed in an unpleasant position. Given that the ministers were their bosses, officials could not refuse tasks, even though they were charged with something they were not obliged to do. Public responses from the Prime Minister and ministers to the interpretation were often offensive, unworthy, arrogant and cynical. The Minister of Transport will enter parliamentary history with one of the most arrogant and insulting statements. Let me remind you; in his presentation of his response to the interpretation, he said that the only qualification for interpolation composers in his field was that they had a driving and driving licence. From the biography of Dr. Petr Verlic, Chairman of the Transport and Information Society Committee at our professional council, which coordinated work in this area, follows: Dr. Peter Verlič, born in 1962, PhD, was State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport and Communications for Transport Policy and International Relations, was Director of the Transport Institute in 1993/1998, is a member of the Technical Committee Cost Transport with the European Union, a member of the Organising Committee of the International Symposium of Electronics in Transport, an independent expert in the evaluation of transport projects with the European Commission and a judicial expert. Dr Pavliha has therefore taken offense at the expense of a top-level expert who has a much better reference in the field of transport policy than Minister Pavliha, who is not a specialist in transport policy, but in maritime law. The performance of Dr. Pavlihe points to a typical government attitude toward anyone who points out her mistakes. The exalted, offensive, arrogant, cynical attitude of the government towards the opposition is also the attitude towards all the voters and voters, in particular those who voted in the elections for the opposition parties. A few points in the fields. The government coalition announced 4 to 5% economic growth during the term of office in the coalition contract. Actual status 2.9% in 2001, 2.9% in 2002 and 2.3% in 2003. The key promise in the field of economy has therefore remained far from realisation. Of course, the government's response refers to a long-standing deterioration in the situation of our main trading partners. The Minister of Economy said somewhere that economic growth is not dependent on the government, as Slovenia is not the former Albania and does not have a planned economy, but in Slovenia's development strategy for the next 10 years, the government on page 16 is forecasting 66% of economic growth this time, and on page 10, an increase of 1.5% of the percentage point in economic growth. The government seems to be making fun of the interpelling proponents as well as the public at this point. If the government is not dependent on economic growth, it is impossible to predict why you are forecasting it again and this time until 2013. And it's a question of what's true. Either the government cannot influence economic growth, or false promises have been made, or the government is incompetent because it has not fulfilled this promise. There's no third option. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy may decide only between these two. Immediately at the beginning of its response to economic growth: In 2002/2004, Slovenia ranked 29th among all countries in the world and was ranked under the criteria of the World Bank as the most developed countries of the Council. The standard of living of the inhabitants of Slovenia, measured according to the gross domestic product expressed in the purchasing power of the inhabitants, has increased significantly, so that we have already surpassed Portugal among the old members of the European Union. During this period, gross domestic product per capita increased from 74% of GDP in the Union to 77.3%. The fact that the gross domestic product has grown by 3.3% of the European average over the four years is not something the government could be proud of because it is not aware of what development it is. Faster economic growth than the growth of the largest EU countries, such as Germany, France and Italy, has been achieved by other members of the European Union, as well as by some new members such as Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. Their average economic growth was one and more times higher than that of Slovenia. Faster economic growth was achieved, although, like Slovenia, they were limited by a small domestic market to the so-called recession in the European Union and instability in the Russian market. On page 19 the government responds to the interpretation of economic growth and lists only Germany, Austria, France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, but not Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Slovakia, Ireland and others. According to the latest Eurostat data, economic growth from the first quarter of 2003 to the first quarter of 2004, according to the latest annual data available, in Latvia 8.8%, in Lithuania 8%, in Estonia 7%, in Slovakia 5.5%. When we assess and compare the Slovenian rate of economic growth with the growth rate of the most developed countries, which have an absolutely higher gross domestic product per capita, we need to take into account the simple accounting fact that percentages of higher gross domestic product growth do not give enough indication. The absolute growth of gross domestic product per capita, 1% of the added value from different bases, is very important, so the real GDP per capita does not mean the same absolute growth and does not mean achieving developmental or developmental retardation. If 1% of the increase in our gross domestic product was EUR 210 and the Austrian EUR 550 and German €850, this means that, with equal growth, the differences between us are only increasing and not maintaining. In order not to fall behind Austria's growth in Slovenia, our gross domestic product growth or added value should be 2.6 times higher than Austria, which means, for example, that our gross domestic product growth should be at least 7.8% by 3%. In order to catch up with the Austrians, however, our gross domestic product would have to grow if they had 3% growth, at least 10% or more. The fact that Slovenian economic growth is slightly higher than the growth of the rest of the European Union should be an alarm sign for the government, not to boast of it. Of course, the government must act as a service to the economy. It has to ensure an economy-friendly tax environment, a friendly administrative environment, a legal order, a payment discipline, an effective enforcement of mutual financial obligations between companies, without those two conditions previously there is no rapid and effective resolution of judicial disputes, favourable credit conditions for new companies, effective state subsidies. According to these criteria, which are most relevant to the success of a government in the economic field, the Slovenian government, through international studies, has achieved extremely poor results. The 2003 International Institute for Management Development study says: According to the government's effectiveness, public finances, fiscal policy, institutional environment and economic legislation are measured, Slovenia is ranked among comparable countries, those that are here and the regions, these are categories of countries with less than 20 million inhabitants, which are the last, according to 29th place. He is behind Slovakia, which is on 24th, Hungary on 22, Czech Republic on 19th and Estonia on 9. This is not about the efficiency of the country, but about the efficiency of the government, because the government is running public finances, fiscal policy and is also creating an institutional environment and is proposing, and, of course, through the government coalition, it is adopting economic legislation. The same research says, according to the number of days needed for the opening of a new company, Slovenia, with 62 days needed for the opening of the company, is as much as in Markovic time, classified as Latvia, Ireland and Finland, which, of course, would like to catch up in this growth. This study says that in the area of the entrepreneurial environment, when the appropriateness of basic technological, scientific and human resources was also analysed, Slovenia ranked 27th in this criterion for Hungary, Estonia, the Czech Republic. All these obstacles represent implicit taxation on entrepreneurship and act as an obstacle to economic development. By the way, the Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, in an interview for a week, relativized this study of the International Institute for Management Development and questioned its expertise. The Finance Officer commented on this statement: "If we judge by the Economic Minister's statements, there are no fools at the famous Swiss institution for economic research in the EMD. The opinions of experts of recognised foreign institutions do not come to the Slovenian government alive when they defend their infallibility and confidence in their rights." Minister Lahovnik, who was a so-called independent expert yesterday, with a distance to Liberal Democracy, quickly took on the same manners. A study of the World Economic Forum showed that according to the effectiveness of state subsidies, i.e. government intervention in the economy, the Slovenian Government in 31st place, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Estonia and many other countries. Interestingly, the government itself, I do not know if the Prime Minister has read this, but the draft Slovenian Development Strategy on page 147 states: "The absolute value of the Slovenian Global Competitiveness Index, calculated by the World Economic Forum, is growing, but we have achieved the worst results in the quality of public institutions in recent years." Here, in its own programme, the government acknowledges that of all these comparisons, the worst, the quality of public institutions - the worst results. The World Bank's data also show that we are most lagging behind the current members of the European Union in indicators or indicators of quality of governance, such as indicators measuring the quality of regulations, the rule of law, the effectiveness of governance and the control of corruption. This shows that the quality of the institutional environment in Slovenia has not yet reached the level necessary for good governance. I do not read this from the opposition's programme; I do not read this from the Slovenian Democratic Party's programme of expertise or evaluation; I read this from the draft Slovenian Development Strategy prepared by the government. Commendably, very self-critical, but deny what you yourself wrote in this draft development strategy for the next 10 years. On the basis of the denial of this smugness that we have heard in the performances of ministers, you will see how successful the government is. Here you yourself say that this is the biggest problem: the right quality of public institutions, the quality of governance. And you have to decide what he's holding now. And a 2003 GEM poll. In this survey, experts have very low evaluation of our government policy in addressing new and growing businesses and government programmes and various forms of support. Slovenia took 29th place among 35 compared countries. My colleagues will talk about inflation and some other financial matters. Perhaps just a few comparisons regarding the most obvious promises made by the government four years ago and the actual situation. In the coalition contract, you wrote that you have been in power for the last four years: "We will ensure that the share of public finances and gross domestic product expenditure is stabilised in the period 2001-2004 at around 42%, with the government deficit having to be reduced to a smaller surplus after a three-year annual reduction in 2004." The actual situation according to government institutions: "Public spending has increased all year round and in 2003 it was already 43.1% of gross domestic product, "far away from the promised 42%. Public financial deficit according to Slovenian criteria and government data in 2002 3%, 2003 over 1, 2004 "no deficit". The finance minister said it was bad. Maybe, but then why did you promise him? The poor situation, the increasing share of government revenues, is said to be very important in spending public funds on the increased consumption of state operators. In no pre-election programme, the Liberal Democracy and the government told voters that they would spend $54 million on the purchase of expensive government aircraft. This is an extraordinary investment that the state has committed itself to, but not a word or a letter before the elections in 2000 — a major electoral fraud. There is no government in the world that would make such an investment without pre-planning it and telling it before the elections what it is. Well, let me also say that now, before the elections, the government is also renting this aircraft for, according to experts, a very modest lease, while also renting aircraft for its needs and paying expensive economic rents for it. And, at the same time, we're paying the principal and the interest on the debt that the government hired to buy this luxury plane. The next example of the irrational spending of public funds is companies that are owned directly or indirectly by the State and which spend hundreds of millions for sponsors and various so-called intellectual services without any content without any calls. Minister Keber spent 7 million euros on the theoretical health reform, a lot of money - he did not deny it when interpreting the interpolation - but health reform has remained at the theoretical and rhetorical level, and users of these heavy millions have nothing. You could list dozens more cases of irrational spending of total money, but since you've limited time, it's not possible to list everything. The fact is that economic behaviour could save tens of billions and invest them in priority programmes or reduce deficits, debts or taxes. The next topic where the government claims to have been very successful is unemployment. Mag. At the beginning of his term of office, Anton Rop promised to reduce unemployment by a fifth. In fact, the rate has been reduced by only 3% in all four years since the LDS led this coalition, and it is not yet clear whether the number of unemployed is actually lower or that only so many people have been erased from the register in the employment institutions; people are telling us to put them on public work and when the public works are finished, they are no longer registered in the unemployment register. However, a significant share of this 3% is still employment in public administration, where employment has increased significantly over the last four years. And that's where the growth was great. And the big problem when it comes to unemployment and which the government has actually completely ignored in its response is the big difference in unemployment rates across regions. The rate of registration of unemployment by region in 2003 is as follows: Slovenia 11.2%) and the Pomur region 17.5%, Podravska 16.2%), Zasavska 16.1%, lower Posavska 14.9%, Savinska 13.5%, Koroška 12.6%. More than half of the regions are above this average. And if we look at where the country has allocated the most state subsidies in this mandate, we see that it has directed them mainly to regions where unemployment is not the most pressing problem. State subsidies are in all environments where they are still used, an instrument to reduce these disparities in the unemployment rate across regions. But the Slovenian government doesn't know that. The largest state subsidies went where the problem of the unemployed was not the biggest, but the other way around. From the tables and data provided by the government in response to the interpolation, it is clear that the rate of survey unemployment has been steadily increasing over the last three years. In 2001, it was 6.4% and the 2004 forecast was 6.8%. Unfortunately, therefore, it will not be possible to reach the government's promise that the rate of survey unemployment will fall to 5% in 2006. It is also worrying that even surveyed employment is falling, it is said that there are fewer employees, which confirms our estimates that the decline in the registered unemployment rate is only on the account of the unemployed, not on the account of new employment, except in part in the public administration. As far as interregional differences are concerned, one of the pressing strategic development problems in Slovenia, the government acknowledges in response to interpolation that the interregional differences expressed by gross domestic product per capita have increased slightly in recent years. The government admits that. However, we cannot agree with the government's assessment that the disparities between regions in the unemployment rate began to decline after a few years' increase in 2003. From the coefficient of variation, it is clear that the inter-regional unemployment differences in the government's mandate increased from 31.2% in 2000, to 33.9% in 2003. State economic governance. One of the fundamental promises of this government coalition was that the government would withdraw from the economy, that politics would withdraw from the economy. In the coalition contract it is written in bold letters on the first pages where these key directions are summarized. The government coalition will do everything to get policy out of the economy. What happened? Instead of the government acting as a service to the economy and providing the economy with favourable conditions for business, the Slovenian government retains the role of the economy over the Slovenian economy. The role of the government in the economy is clearly too great. In four years, it has earlier increased as a result of its decline, especially taking into account the indirect political impact of government clients in the economy. The government should have withdrawn from the economy a long time ago. This is a promise before every election, nothing happens. According to a survey by the prestigious Canadian Economic Institute, which is considered one of the world's most influential institutions to measure economic freedom around the world, and according to a study conducted in July this year, Slovenia is considered to be one of the economically least liberal new members of the European Union, and on a global scale, it has landed in 74th place from 123 countries. Virtually all the other new members of the European Union have come before it. The Institute examines the degree of economic freedom, policy non-interference in the economy according to the following criteria: the role and size of the country in the economy, the legal system and property rights, monetary policy, international trade, the degree of regulation in the market. This is the labour market, the financial market, the state restriction of businesses. Slovenia received the worst marks due to the country's large role in the economy. After mixing politics and the country into the economy, Slovenia is from 123 countries in 120th place. Three skilled young economic professors Sašo Polanec, Jože Damjan and Matija Rojec wrote in the Finances on 17 August 2004 in the article Withdraw the country from the economy: "The early privatisation of state-owned companies, which are often monopolistic, is undoubtedly essential and thus an unhealthy impact of policy on business operations. In particular, there is a problem in the telecommunications sector, which is controlled in fixed and mobile telephony by the monopoly company Telekom, with the subsidiaries Mobitel and Siol." Next: Our key owners are the Capital Society, the Compensation Society and financial institutions, which do not have the right motivation to develop businesses. All they care about is supervision or short-term financial performance. They have no means or knowledge to do anything else, nor is it their function. In Slovenia, despite the principle of a privatised economy, the role of the state in the economy through its parastatal funds is very strong. These two funds, in relation to the largest, still state-owned, Triglav insurance company, also manage third or larger equity shares in the most pro-pulsive companies, giving them control power and ability to influence business operations and their strategic decisions. This is an unhealthy relationship that allows direct control and the possibility of political manipulation in most major Slovenian companies. In the same number, Finance points to the urgent reduction of the country's role in the economy of two other young economists, Dr. Keselevič and Mag. Aristocrat. This is a global theoretical assessment of the impact of policy and government on the economy. If we are a little more concrete, let us make one such "top ten" of political personnel in the economy, we see that virtually in no important place in the economy and in those places in the administration, which also indirectly and directly affect how things happen in the economy, there is no man there who would not be set up by a government option. There's a lot of messy cases. For example, Mr Lenic at Triglav Insurance is a former policy of Liberal Democracy. Mr. Kramar at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr. Thaler on Simmobile. The one who controls public finances, Mr Soltes, in the Court of Auditors, was also unable there without a card from the Liberal Democracy. In Krk there is Mr Kovacic, who will now raise the image of the LDS party in New Town. In Savi, Mr. Bohorich. Former LDS Vice President. He's a pitcher in Istrabenz. Mr Kocijancič from the sister party of the government coalition manages national television, the Olympic Committee. His wife sets up study programs at the University. The former President of the United Nations, Mr Ribičič, in the Constitutional Court decides on complaints concerning the economy as well. Mr Jankovic, who, in his own words, has been installed there by political Mr Rop, manages a majority trader in Slovenia. Mrs. Kanduttieva controls the casino in Portorož. Mr. Mazel Mobile. Mr. Dove Ultra. Mr. Kushar Compensation Society. Mr. Jamnik Capital Society. Mr. Jakič Athletics Association, Mr. Anderlich Auto-Moto Connection. Mr. Meh Moore. The D.A. is in the hands of the LDS. That this is a fact also proves the political role of the former Attorney General, who is now the Minister and candidate of the Liberal Democracy. The successor is also from this orbit of government parties. But to make things even worse, the other side that's going on in these legal disputes is somehow being controlled by the Liberal Democracy. The President of the Bar is also, an important LDS policy, Mr Kozinc, who is also the President of the Supervisory Board in Luka Koper. I could count for two more hours. There is no important place where the ruling policy would not have direct leverage of control over the economy. Clearly, this situation has made clientism and corruption rich. Here we have been alerting this phenomenon to the same speaker and to this phenomenon from the parliamentary benches at several sessions. Instead of effective measures, we have received a law that has created a new institution that is supposed to pursue corruption that is not yet operational. Rules of procedure are only being adopted today, and this one was disputed. The personnel who were appointed there should perform sooner than those who will be investigated by this commission, not as those who will investigate. A former criminalist, or police officer, came to the helm of this commission, who proved to be illegally listening to journalists, proved to be illegal and unnecessary. And he will now pursue corruption. The committee employs the main staff of the Liberal Democracy, a little bit more under the next item. And that was kind of the answer, if, the problem is, we set up a commission. So nothing's gonna happen. We have noted corruption in the case of public companies, Mobil, Ultra, key officials in the largest government party, nothing has happened. Companies that have been injured in these proceedings have not yet received any compensation, businesses are moving forward in the same way, and politics has the same role. We pointed out at the last session that some liberal democracy officials for 500 tolars buy parcels at elite sites by the sea. Farmers who have been harmed by this are still without their rights. Things are moving forward, in fact, sometimes it is very difficult to listen to government representatives arriving at a press conference in large state cars. They're talking about social, they're buying 500 tolars by the sea themselves, and everyone else has to pay ten times the price. It's really nice social. The reinforcements that the government coalition will obviously send to fight against these elections are more or less from the same nest. There is much talk about some very successful director, some big bottom company, who is now supposed to raise the image of this party or, as he said, LDS parties in the valley capital. It may be a successful economist, but it must be said that when it comes to corruption and clientism, it is a cadre that actually "feeds" into these phenomena that we have talked about here many times. This product, you all know, is used, I don't know, for a decade in this country, it still says on this product that the importer for Slovenia is Novo mesto. This product and several similar products were sold in thousands, tens of thousands of products. It is produced abroad, for a long time was the importer and representative indeed the company Krka. Then this successful economist, who will now strengthen the largest type of government party, or even raise the image of this party in the New City, found that it would be possible to make a lot of money here. And the thing was, the Krka company shut down the unit that represented this and some other products. During that time, drug production was expanding, and workers were reassigned there. The representation of these highly profitable products, of which at least a few ten workers were employed and paid, has moved on to, think about it, we have now looked at this label, which is glued over this original label and it says that it is now represented by a Dutch company and the branch is in Ljubljana. And who runs this company and branch: Kovačič, R. C. Diana. This is, of course, the daughter of this director. In my view, in an extremely unfair way, the production or production unit in a company that is a share company has been cut off in order to achieve great wealth benefits. Instead of hiring new workers as production spreads in another department, they simply redeployed. Otherwise, no one went on the road, but no one got a job, and we could. And the profits now flow into private pockets directly. Such products, where the stickers are over the original print, are largely found in Slovenian shops. And these are stories about "bypass" companies, these are stories about corruption and customerism. And this is the refreshment and renewal promised by the largest government party for these elections. Those are fresh shots! I must say, extremely well. That is also the case with the state of justice. The effective functioning of the courts is an essential element of the rule of law and legal certainty. Citizens and businesses expect the country to ensure a quick and effective resolution of disputes which they cannot resolve peacefully. The situation in this area is catastrophic in Slovenia. Let's take a look at some data. At the end of 2003, there were 6,000 backlogs in criminal matters in the District Courts and 16,800 in fair cases, with a case not resolved in one and a half years being regarded as a backlog. Land-Liquial Affairs: 130,000 backlogs, a case that has not been resolved within three months, although 99% of cases are simple, routine, indisputable entries. 130,000 backlogs! In district courts, more than 30% of cases have been resolved in the first instance for more than three years. In the event of a complaint, the dispute may take five to six years, but if the higher court annuls the judgment and the trial resumes at first instance, as well as ten to twelve years. According to the findings of the well-known Swiss Institute of Loussana, Slovenia ranked 70 countries last in the field of contractual law judicial protection. In the area of notariat, the government has created a monopoly by limiting the number of notaries and has made it possible to significantly reduce competition. The government has undoubtedly taken care of the well-being of Slovenian notaries, and briefly draw the user's services. The Notary Services market needs to be opened up and made possible in this area also healthy competition, competition with quality, reliability and prices. As the Attorney-General's Attorney-General, the Minister of Justice found that Prosecutor Železnik had over 160 backlogs, only when they fell physically from the closet. How can such a minister, who could not even arrange for the prosecution, expect a solution to the problem of judicial backlogs? With regard to education, I should say that a nine-year-old was introduced without a comprehensive analysis of the performance of an eight-year-old, without an experimental phase that would be long enough to allow for a later resolution of the weakness, without taking into account the comments of managers, teachers, the professional public and parents who do not have the option of democratic co-ordination. There are a lot of problems here. If I'm very specific, seven classes of nine-year-olds have 17 subjects to be evaluated with numerical estimates. In the seven classes of a nine-year-old, at Gabra's school, children have 17 subjects, which are all evaluated by numerical estimates. Where else will there be room for learning about how to use this knowledge for education and for everything else? A few days ago, Mr Gaber on POP TV said that students leave atlas on school benches. We got a lot of calls, parents come in, and they warn me that's not true. Maybe somewhere. And so on and so forth. Here the government cites some quantitative data that partially hold, described the university, and so on. But the problem here is double. The problem of governance with the country, as far as knowledge is concerned, is dual. First time. There's too little investment in that. Secondly, existing knowledge is underexploited. Among the unemployed there are a lot of young people who have finished school, who have invested a lot in their education, and society has invested a lot in it, but they are out of work. In the case of housing policy, the government promised 6,000 apartments by the end of this year in 2000. It was built by exactly 3143 more than half. By the fact that there were not enough apartments built on the premises at all. Each year we should build about 10,000 new apartments in Slovenia. The housing deficit has increased dramatically, prices have increased, it is a paradise for various speculations. And since this is a paradise for various speculations, lobbies have been formed here to prevent the situation from improving. Housing cooperatives were abolished, enabling people to organize themselves and solve these problems themselves. Instead, we received a housing fund with partially useful, partially useless results. He pays in the public sector. It is clear to the government that it has failed to implement wage reform in the public sector, it was promised as soon as the beginning of this mandate. It's a typical project where everything is done on paper and nothing has really changed. No wage imbalance in the public sector has been resolved in the last four years. The law adopted is completely invalid, there are no sub-laws, there is no tariff part of this law. Public sector wages are a mess, although they would necessarily need to be regulated. There are huge differences here. The government and the Prime Minister, who have social security on their mouths every day, have done nothing to regulate wage differences in the public sector, which are not in any capitalist countries with a centuries-old tradition, in any way. Every time we asked that question, we only had excuses. There's no comparability here. It is easy to distinguish between disproportionates, which only increase from year to year. This new law on the public sector wage system was adopted in 2002. More than two years have passed since then, and the law is not in force today. 130,000 employees in the public sector are held in uncertainty by this government. They're expected to finally be placed in pay grade by the new system. The wage increase agreement from 1.7.2004 is just something that belongs to public servants. It was a normal escalation, but it's not a realisation of this law. 130,000 people in public administration are disabled by this law because the government has not made its own, severely disadvantaged. Just a few promises on the road. The government has promised to complete the motorway programme in this mandate. There will be no completion of the motorway programme in this mandate. There was a lot of money promised. The government has promised to build a second railway track that would allow for an additional railway connection - it has not been realized. The government has promised: in completing the highway programme, we will examine the costs of putting highways into space and try to choose such routes as to ensure that these costs are not environmentally indisputable and so on. He complicates everything from Dolenjska to Gorenjska. The projected investment or projected investment value per kilometer of roads increased from the original $3.3 million to $10.3 million by counting more or less the same experts. Public administration is mainly behind in handling administrative matters. Setting up the CEOs for five years just before the election. Reorganisation of certain public administration services by moving away services from citizens and businesses. In this area, the Government has not responded adequately to any statement from the interpretation itself. There's a lot of data that responds to other things. At the end of the day, two more words on the topic that we did not write in the interpellation were put back in the debate by Mr Bohinc. As you know, we didn't mention the deleted matter in the interpellation. That is why we were very much punished by Mr Bohinc when he declared this a major lack of interpolation. Of course, it has to be fixed in some way. Especially because he listed shocking obtem data and boasted that he was issuing decisions without a legal basis to people who no longer live in Slovenia, he sent people who are no longer in Slovenia to the addresses of 1990, which are no longer in the street, some settlements are no longer in that name. It considers that the decisions are served if no one raises them at the post office for 15 days, it is considered by the administrative procedure as an served-up decision, etc. These decisions are made by people seeking from Banja Luka and from Serbia. They're waiting for the current government coalition to win the elections again, and then they're going to go to thio-punitive claims immediately into processing. This is now partially retained and they were submitted for over a billion tolars before the decisions were issued. That this problem is not as it was said, and that by claiming that the so-called deletion was a mass violation of human rights, it has maligned the sighting of Slovenia in the world and has caused great injustice to all citizens of Slovenia, especially those who decided in 1991 to become Slovenian citizens as non-Slovaks and have risked something, and now they should be paying compensation to those who refused to do so. Interestingly, after this referendum, when it was clear that Slovenian voters and voters would not just buy it and put it in their pocket, it was not possible to see these people anymore. Mr Todorovich, who used to play on television, is gone, there are no more demonstrations, Mr Krivic has even silenced, who said earlier that he would have to pay compensation from several budgets. Most of those who demonstrated before parliament probably went back to Banja Luka and Serbia, as was the case at the time. Where is this mass violation of human rights now and to whom you issue thousands of decisions. And at the same time, you're pretending there won't be any compensation. We have listened to Mr Gabra and Mr Rope in the last days, which have ensured that there will be no compensation, that this is all obsolete. Previously, however, we received the opinion of the legislative and legal commission on the bench, which says that compensation cannot be ruled out, that our initiatives are illegal, because compensation cannot be excluded, that the Constitutional Court has found this and that it is not possible to exclude them. Not that they're obsolete, but that they can't be ruled out. What's all the fuss now that we've been listening to completely different nerds for two years? If this is true, if you are all in favour of settling matters in a way that separates them from unjustifiable cases, that if a person has been wrongly wronged by an authority or by objective circumstances, that injustice has already been corrected, and that constitutional law makes it impossible to compensate or settle them in a comparable way, then there is no problem. If what you're saying in the last week is really here, the constitutional law is ready, we don't need any referendums if what you're saying is true, we're going to solve everything through constitutional law. Sooner or later, it's gonna have to be resolved. However, since this is also the next point where you have again, in great fear of this topic, limited the debate, we hope that something can still be said. I hereby conclude this introduction and thank you for your attention. We expect the government, as the proponents, that we will really get answers to these questions, which we have written in interpellation and now we have repeated here, but not that we will hear again that Slovenia has gone to the European Union, that it has gone to NATO, that we are the best, with our salaries three times lower than that of the best countries, and that the land is round. We know all this stuff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you, Comrade Janša. There's a colleague, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this presentation, we would like to assess, or point out, the basic indicators for the fulfilment of the government's tasks, mainly in terms of the fulfilment of the coalition contract, that is, in terms of the basic objectives signed by the ruling parties' coalition in 2000, and in parallel, in terms of the objectives and orientations adopted or otherwise set by that Government later in other documents such as the 2001-2006 economic development strategy or the annual budgetary memorandum. At the outset, I must point out that the basic criterion achieved to assess the fulfilment of the promises outlined in the Coalition Treaty cannot be the achievements of some, by the Government of the selected, other countries, for a simple reason, because the government coalition has not announced its development objectives in the Coalition Treaty according to the indicators of such countries. In any case, the achievements of other countries to which we can compare and, above all, we want to compare ourselves are an appropriate criterion. However, it is necessary to ensure a consistent comparison of such indicators of development achieved and to compare them with countries that are successful in their development. The government's statements under the heading Monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia 2001-2006, this is the only strategy in force so far, I will not respond indirectly, as the government itself notes that in the development messages it is already clear that the current strategy is not being sufficiently implemented and it is necessary, according to the Government's assessment, to prepare a new one or its proposal for a public debate. This conclusion is essentially illogical. Certainly it is true that so far, and from the government adopted by the SGRS, the strategy for economic development, is not being implemented. This does not mean that a new but, above all, that it is necessary to clarify what is being done and why the one that is in force is not being realized. I have made this public in person by drawing the attention of the Prime Minister to the public debate of the so-called new strategy. We just want to say that such a good strategy cannot be achieved satisfactorily if the government, by means of implementing acts and rules and by its daily policy and by carrying out its tasks, does not pursue strategic objectives but gives priority to short-term objectives, objectives that are in favour of individual segments of society, or informal, of course, unwritten transitional objectives of the ruling elite. We will therefore respond further to those development reports, to those indicators which the Government believes are indicative of the overall success of its operation. Our findings in the interpolation that the government has not yet reached a certain and so formally promised economic growth in the coalition contract are answered by the government that it has exceeded the average economic growth of the EU 15 countries, including our largest export partners. However, the Coalition Treaty does not refer to the average economic growth of European countries, but sets a concrete goal - to achieve economic growth between four and five per cent. In fact, economic growth has been achieved in the last three years at an average of 2.8 for 2004, starting from the first three months, currently forecasting slightly optimistic 3.6% in our assessment. If this is achieved, it will ultimately mean that an average of 3% or 60% of projected and promised growth for the period 2001-2004 has been achieved. In its response, the government justifies the growth rate achieved as a success. As it is assumed that the growth of the Slovenian economy depends mainly on the demand for our products and services in the euro area countries, it points out that there has been a strong link between the growth of Slovenian and European gross domestic product over the past ten years and that due to the decline in economic growth in these countries, there has been no possibility of greater domestic economic growth. Otherwise, for 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is forecasting higher economic growth due to increased domestic demand, not due to demand in European markets. The growth of private consumption in Slovenia for the first time since 1999 exceeded the growth of gross domestic product due to the increased indebtedness caused by the decrease in bank interest. The more favourable terms for borrowing bank credits this year are also expected to increase government investment demand or private sector activities. High interest rates are therefore only an obstacle to entrepreneurial investment activities, which on the other hand the government denies when responding to the obvious in its banking sector protection policy. But the key question is whether something like this could not be achieved before. Of course, the government doesn't talk about it. In explaining the economic growth achieved, the government is of the view that economic growth in Slovenia depends mainly on the demand for the largest trading partners and domestic demand, i.e. aggregate demand. However, nothing mentions the factor on the aggregate offer side. This view of economic growth, however, is certainly of a specific nature from a professional point of view and is not consistent with modern economic development. The current economic outlook on economic growth is in sharp contrast to those achieved so far by the Government of the Liberal Democracy, and that is that long-term economic growth is primarily driven by the strengthening of supply-side factors. The supply of modern technologically advanced products may stimulate demand, but it cannot be encouraged by an outdated industrial structure, which is unfortunately mostly Slovenian. Faster economic growth than the growth of the largest EU countries, such as Germany, France, Italy, has been achieved by other members of the European Union, as well as by new members such as Estonia and Lithuania. Their average economic growth was once more than Slovenian, regardless of what the Prime Minister said in yesterday's national programme. The data are neither valid nor consistent with his claims. And that faster economic growth has been achieved by these countries, although, like Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, Slovenia have been limited to a small domestic market, the recession in the European Union and the instability of the Russian market. The governments of the Liberal Democracy have so far failed in the design of economic policies that will guide the development of the economy to higher technologies and thus faster economic growth and job creation. Among the ten new members to join the European Union, Slovenia has the lowest share in its exports of 5%, 4.8%, if I am accurate, of highly technologically developed products. Much of our manufacturing industry has lost its competitive capacity due to lack of knowledge and lack of investment in innovation. This is certainly true for the leather, footwear, textiles and clothing industry, as exports of these products to the manufacturing industry fell by a quarter and more in 2003 compared to 2002. In Slovenia, this country is known to be around 0.6% of the gross domestic product and 0.8% of the economy combined by half less than in Germany. However, no mechanisms or commitments have been put in place by the Government in the current mandate to use the development budget to channel the use of these research funds into greater involvement of the academic sphere with the economy. The Swiss Institute of IMD found and placed Slovenia in the 54th place concerning cooperation between universities and the economy and 58th place with regard to cooperation in the technological field between the company. Of course, only 60 countries were compared, far from success. Moreover, governments under the leadership of Liberal Democracy have so far not been able to define the extent to which the state should promote basic and applied science. The appeals made in public by individual researchers and Slovenian experts throughout this current mandate have only now been heard by the government in the pre-election period, and this is how in writing a new education strategy, and in deciding just before the elections, it has imposed on the government a science and technology council under the leadership of the Academy of Žekš on the establishment of a national development programme that we did not have so far. In the past mandate, the government has also done nothing for the arrival of foreign direct investors and their investment in new activities, the so-called "green field", that is to say new investments. Direct investment in technological development did not want to promote tax policy. It rejected the proposed tax exemptions on income tax in new tax legislation, for example to invest in priority development activities in less developed Slovenian regions, and did not take the necessary steps to relieve the burden of labour costs. The government has rejected tax incentives that cannot in any way reduce the existing tax base, since the introduction of tax stimulation would be a factor for an additional increase in the tax base that would apply to any new investor in the new production to a less developed area. And this was the opposition's proposal, which you have always voted on without any argument. In fact, the governments of the Liberal Democracy have renounced active tax policies. With the changes in the taxation of labour under the new Income Act, which will only be applied in 2005, Slovenia will still remain among the highest taxed countries, as regards labour revenues. Reducing taxation in the lowest income class will result in a slight burden on the labour costs of citizens with the lowest income and will increase the taxation of the salaries of employees with secondary and higher education. And this is not an assessment of the opposition, this is an assessment and these are calculations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Foreign investors have also been deterred from trying to invest in Slovenia by the global inefficiencies of the country and by relatively low entrepreneurship efficiency, as Slovenia, according to IMD from Loussana in the last five years, has fallen from 36th city to 45th between 60 countries and regions in international comparisons in these areas. I will not go further in the last analysis made by the Canadian Institute, which my colleague, Janez Janša, has already talked about. We must note, however, that in this area, when Slovenia ranks 74th among the 123rd countries, it is at the lowest point in all European countries, including these transition countries, that Slovenia has received these worst estimates because of part of its major role in the economy. The Prime Minister has so far responded with doubts about the methodologies of these institutes in his public responses to the adverse findings of international institutions. Of course, these were not at a time when, in the previous term, we had more favorable seats. And this is clearly written in the strategy for economic development. Of course, such behaviour by the Prime Minister is of no benefit to anyone, as foreign investors also rely on information from such independent institutions in their foreign investment plans. At least it is not known to me that someone would choose to invest on the basis of reports from government information services or political parties' reports. Inflation is supposed to be the lowest ever. The Coalition Treaty forecasted a reduction in the average annual inflation rate by around 4.5%. In fact, inflation did not approach this objective until this year, following the decision and adoption of measures to enter the ERM 2. In 2003, the annual inflation rate from December to December 4.6 was the average annual rate of 5.6. For this year, the government has announced both levels at 3.3, which is in fact the average annual rate according to July data of this year 4.2 and exceeds the forecast to meet the Maastricht criteria, and of course not based on the data of the opposition, but Eurostat of August 2004, is said to have been a few days ago. Success in reducing inflation this year as the last year of this government's mandate is encouraging, but it has not yet ensured that all the delays can also be replaced and managed successfully in the future. The government did not run an appropriate fiscal policy to reduce inflation until the last year. Prior to that, by increasing direct taxes, VAT and excise duties, it contributed to the overall increase in prices between 2001 and 2002, i.e. by just one quarter. That's not opposition data. This is an analysis that you can read in the images and analyses of Banka Slovenije in July 2004, and the author is among others the first Slovenian expert Chufar. Inflation management may also be at risk in the 2004 and 2005 budgets, as it is not in line with those Maastricht rules which provide that the country must address the structural budget deficit over the medium term by at least half a percent of the gross domestic product or more per year. Nor is it possible for the Government to establish that it has carried out deindexation in the financial field in a timely manner, which has affected the persistence of inflation and the reduction of inflationary expectations, as it stresses in its response to interpolation. The fact is that Slovenian companies were forced to borrow the most abroad a good year ago because domestic interest rates were too high. The decrease in bank interest rates in 2004 is actually a by-product of completing the conditions for entry into ERM 2 and taking over the euro in 2007. The fact is that the government should abolish the basic interest rate and introduce nominalism a long time ago. The government had only begun to lead a consistent policy of reducing inflation with Banka Slovenije when a group of young economists with knowledge from foreign universities had begun to raise public awareness of the so far national economic failure to manage exchange rate monetary policy under the responsibility of Banka Slovenije and the policy of deregulated or controlled prices under the responsibility of the government. On the other hand, the government is not fully attached to the work that says it has managed to regulate the area of regulated prices. The increase in regulated prices, which amounted to around 16% two and a half years ago, was reduced to 4% at the end of 2004 according to official data. However, we believe that this is only the result of administrative restrictions on price growth and not structural reform in the area of price regulation. While regulating public service prices, three agencies are involved in the area where service providers are majority state-owned and have a monopoly. Therefore, in these cases too, it is not the right to regulate prices independently. For all other areas of public services, the State does not know about this authorised authority, nor does it have formal satisfactory legal arrangements for the exercise of powers, in particular for prices of all types of municipal services, drinking water, municipal sewage and so on, as prices vary widely between municipal companies, public or private, across the country. [[...]] Often, though, differences are not economically or otherwise justified, but they are primarily a matter of municipal policy. The recent forecasts of the competent minister, Mr Kopač, show that we can expect a major change in this particular area within the next mandate. Slovenia is legitimately, justifiably asking itself why not just next year. What have you been doing? How irresponsible the governments of Liberal Democracy have so far been when it comes to regulating the prices of municipal or public services is the case with the public company Energetics Ljubljana, the purchase of SIB and the formation of prices in the area of the Municipality of Ljubljana, but we will not be dealing with this today, as the Slovenian public is aware of the problem and there is no solution at all. Slovenia does not have a comprehensive system for regulating public service prices. The current limitation of price increases in this area by the Government or its competent ministers is in fact only the nature of the administrative intervention of price limitation. After the first months of this year, there are also signs of undercutting in the policy of controlled prices. Our warnings that the government's inflation efforts are not yet sufficient, and not least, the EU's 25 financial ministers at the last meeting of Ecofin in July 2004, as they warned that Slovenian inflation is still too high, and you can also read it in the last issue of the Economic Gazette on 16 August. Public deficit. The government responded with a surprising response to the interpolation that it had failed to comply with the coalition agreement, but it did not even approach its promise of a three-year reduction in the public financial deficit, which will turn into a smaller surplus in 2004. Your Honor! This is based on the basis of the 2000 baseline or the data on the public financial deficit found under the ESA 95 European methodology, this is from a deficit that was subsequently calculated and according to its data amounts to 3.5% of the gross domestic product, so on this basis the deficit is expected to fall annually and is below the EU average. I will also try to explain the methodological error in the presentation of the budget deficit. The government has never planned a budget deficit under the European methodology until now, although this would be necessary and the opposition has repeatedly asked it to do so. No budget document measures the categories of budget deficit according to the European methodology, nor for 2005. At first glance, it could be concluded that this deficit was the responsibility of the previous government in 2000, which I had the honour to lead. Of course, this cannot be agreed upon. The deficit of the state budget following the so-called national methodology was 0.89% for 2000, i.e. almost 0.9% of gross domestic product or 38 billion tolars, or now according to new data that we have recently discovered and transmitted by the government, for only 30.9 billion SITs. In all the following years of government governance, from 2001 to 2003, the budget deficit of the national budget has been shown to be higher than in 2000. 2001 1.4%, 2002 2.61%, 2003 1.20%, etc. The same applies to the calculation of the deficit of the wider public sector, i.e. the overall government deficit which was higher in 2001 than in 2002. In 2000, 1.13%, 2001 1.28%, 2002 2.84% of those 1.5% back, these are the famous corrections, 2003 1.35%, 2004 1.64% on the basis of the adopted budget, and based on the estimates of Umar you can read in the Mirror, 1.8% are already expected. It now refers to the European methodology. The budget deficit under the European methodology may be different from that after the national public spending obligation due to changes in the value of the main debts and the debts incurred under the past guarantees issued. This means that the budget deficit under the European methodology can be higher than the national one based on a category that cannot be affected in the short term and therefore could not and did not be affected by the transitional government. Of course, I do not want to say that these categories are that the government has no influence whatsoever. On the contrary. It may have a significant impact on them, but it is therefore necessary for some of them, such as the indexation of principals, to take over the debt for a longer period. In the short term, it can only affect the scope of the deferred payment obligations, but for 2000 this would be contrary to the already adopted budget and also to the law on the implementation of the budget. Plans and results created must be measured with the same criteria. It is for the above reasons that we Members of the Slovenian Coalition have taken up this mandate since 2001 to change our accounting or accounting system and to replace our methodology based on the principle of monetary flows as soon as possible with a European one based on the occurrence of an event or the occurrence of an obligation. Our proposal and the demands of the ruling coalition have not been heeded, as reporting through two methodologies has enabled effective manipulation of the public and taxpayers and thus a better political position or view. Each year, at the time of adoption of the budget, the former and current Finance Minister and Prime Minister argued that Slovenia is far from the limit of the Maastricht criterion of three percent of the budget deficit, as our budget deficit is supposed to be below one percent or about one percent. At least the government should display the budget or budget deficit in parallel and the accounts of the final account in both methodologies. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, there may be very large differences between methodologies. [[...]] However, we find these differences and claim that they were caused in 2002 only because in the report to Europe, the government had already fixed all those things in 2000 when it was doing a change in methodology and the financial year, but only in Slovenia did it in 2002 when the opposition demanded it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u9	My colleague, Dr. Bayuk, I'm obliged to warn you that time is planned for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u10	I know. This is how you decided to go to college yesterday that we will not be able to respond to 300 pages of the long positions of the Slovenian government and in all the media presented by their deceptions, so that this will not come to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, that's not true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u12	We will prove in the following interventions that the government is deceiving and the Prime Minister is also deceiving when he speaks of public debt by actually reducing it, it is actually much bigger. Mr Prime Minister and the Government are deceiving in all documents. And we'll prove it. In any case, Mr President, I would ask that all this material that we have today be included in the magnetogram, if not the other, for Slovenian history, be clearly recorded how the government has deceived the Slovenian public and how it is still pushing its head into the sand without facing the reality of our situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. The material you have and have not been able to present at this time will give you an opportunity to discuss it further and will also be included in the material of the National Assembly. In a magnetogram. We have made a presentation and an explanation of the interpretation by the proponents. The government, as we know, provided a written reply between 12.8.2004 and I now give the floor first to the Prime Minister, Mag. To Anton Rope for further explanation of the written reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you are most welcome. In fact, I am pleased to see that today we can face up to numbers in some cases. That's very good if there's a lot of talk about numbers and today we've heard quite a bit about it. The government has prepared a report on the development of Slovenia 2000-2004 in response to the intervention on the work of the Government. Regardless of the fact that we believe that the introduction of interpretation just before the parliamentary elections, at a time when the electoral campaign is practically launched, at a time when political parties are supposed to face political programmes, views, candidates, is not the most appropriate and in European democratic practice is an extremely unusual form of debate on the government's work. However, we have prepared this report and we are not opposed to this discussion and we are actually looking forward to it. We look forward to the part where we can face different data, different facts that everyone can verify, and then look at who is who is trying to show the situation differently than it is. Of course, it is normal for the opposition – in fact, this is its duty – to try to show the government's work negatively and to try to find weak points. In this context, such a debate is positive because it brings together some conclusions on the problems that exist in society and in the country. I believe, however, that there have been sufficient opportunities for such discussions in all these four years. Finally, it is not true that the government does not report to the national assembly; we all know that the government reports to the national assembly each year about its work, and there is always a possible discussion about it. What we would like to avoid, and I think it would be good for the Slovenian public, are flat-rate accusations. And such accusations are, unfortunately, I regret very much in this submitted interpretation. If we look at, for example, in the second paragraph of this interpolation, it says: "In fact, spending has increased all year long," I am talking about the last two sentences that illustrate this approach of what is written, "and last year it has already exceeded 43.1% of GDP." The latest data are lower, and it is not even more important that the data is not accurate. “In fact, spending has increased all year long, the promise has been great, none of the expected accomplishments have been achieved.” It reads “None of the expected results have been achieved”. In recent days, we have listened to some representatives of the opposition who have tried to soften such statements because, of course, the discussion has shown that nothing has been achieved. We all know that most of what has been predicted has been realized. Please see below: “Neither the rate of inflation nor the borrowing nor the reallocation of tax burdens with the most heavily burdened and the worst-paid citizens have been carried out.” Below, we will, alone and my colleagues, ministers, prove with data, numbers that everyone can see that these are flat-rate accusations, that this is not true, that it is documented to prove that the indications in the interpretation are wrong The report shows what we have done, changed, improved in Slovenia over the past four years. Of course, we also try to respond to the impressions of interpretation where these eyewitnesses are such that it is even possible to answer them. Report on the development of intervention in all key areas of government, economy, public finances, social and employment policy, environmental policy, security, internal and transport policy, cultural policy, health, including foreign policy. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia has taken important steps in the past four years and no one can undo these steps. In virtually all areas of our development, we have changed them for the better. In the coming mandate, we have met one of our most important objectives and priorities. We have made ready and successfully joined the family of the most advanced, democratic and developing nations and countries. We have entered the European Union, according to the European Commission's assessment not at the discretion of this government, according to the European Commission's assessment, as the most prepared candidate for entry. If it were to hold what the opposition is saying here, we would not get an assessment of the most prepared candidate to join the European Union. This means that of all ten candidates, we have best met nominal and realistic convergence criteria. This is not the government's conclusion, this is the European Commission's conclusion. This is the truth that is recognised in the European Union. We also want to tell this truth here, and we want to tell this truth to Slovenian citizens and citizens. This means that we have undoubtedly achieved movement in the economic, social, political and administrative fields. This means that all of us, citizens and citizens, the economy and science, if you want the education system, the government, the state administration have done a great deal of preparatory work to join the European Union. It means that all of us who have been involved in the European Union integration project, including the National Assembly and all parliamentary political parties, have done a good and successful job to which we can rightly be proud. It is right that we are proud that this is the basis for our ambitions. Slovenia entered the NATO liaison in the expiring term. With this, we have provided Slovenians and Slovenians with the highest possible degree of long-term security for our citizens and have assumed our share of the solidarity responsibility for world peace and development. Dear assembly, the ministers and ministers will present a report on development in specific areas and will also respond to the perceptions of interpretation. I'm just going to point out some of the areas where the facts are, the reality is far from what it's trying to read in interpolation. The economy first. Economic growth is always above the average of the European Union in Slovenia. Even in the period 2000/2004, when economic growth in the euro area countries, which are our most important external trading partners, and this is important, we export there, we are applying there, we are realizing added value, it has decreased. During this period too, Slovenia has been developing towards the European Union. During this period, we have achieved balanced economic growth. This is what the development report is talking about, and this is what the human development index is talking about. This means that it has been accompanied by declining inflation, declining interest rates, a relative reduction in public debt, a reduction in the cost of public debt servicing and, over the last period, increasing investment activity, which is reflected in relatively high economic growth this year. Today, it has been seen how it is possible to compare Slovenia with Germany, Austria, France and Italy when we look at economic growth. It's perfectly logical. 85% of our exports to the European Union go directly to these countries. It is in these countries that our production and added value are realized. And in all these countries, they had significantly lower economic growth than in Slovenia. In Germany, for example, 0.6%. We were told here to make a comparison with Slovakia. We and Slovakia, of course, did not do the comparison because we thought this was inappropriate. Slovakia does not compete with Slovenia and it would be inappropriate to make this comparison. We're gonna do it now because they asked us to. True, Slovakia had 4.2 economic growth in 2003. It had more economic growth than Slovenia. No doubt about it. However, Slovakia had an inflation rate of 8.5 in 2003. In Slovenia we had inflation rates in 2003 4.6. In Slovakia in 2003, the rate of survey unemployment, according to ILO standards, was 17.1%, in Slovenia 6.7. Who wants to compare us to Slovakia? Is there a possible comparison between Slovenia and Slovakia? In Slovakia, which is, of course, an example of some of our policies, they had a current account balance in gross domestic product minus 1% of gross domestic product. In Slovenia 0.1. We had a positive balance. The public debt in Slovakia is 42.8%. In Slovenia 38.5. And the balance of public finances, which of course speaks about how development was financed, was minus 3.6% in Slovakia and 1.8 in Slovenia during this period. The comparison was made with Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. We do not want to compare ourselves with these countries. They were said to have had greater economic growth. Yeah, they had a bigger economic growth. In addition, see, they had a unemployment rate of between 9 and 11%. In Slovenia, however, we had 6.7%. This is an example for some policies. Youth unemployment rates were in these countries, see Latvia 22.7 in Estonia 19.9. We had 15.4, which is below the average of the European Union and still too much. And that's our problem. However, we do not want to compare ourselves, not with Slovakia, not Estonia, not Lithuania, not Latvia. We think we can be better. But if we want to be better, we need to have a balanced economic development, just as we have had it so far, and we will have it, I firmly believe, even after. Let me have some more information. The increase in prices of living needs, as far as inflation is concerned, was between 7% and 10% in 2000. In 2001, it began to decline. The latest data from the Bureau of Statistics shows that it is 3.7. Slovenia has made significant progress in the economic and financial fields, contrary to the indications from the 2000-2004 interpolation, despite the poorer international economic conjucture. Later, the Minister of Finance will show some tables. Slovenia is one of the least indebted countries in the European Union. Reducing the share of debt in gross domestic product is a combination of the positive effects of government policies, such as restrictive fiscal policies over the past years, reducing inflation as a result of effective fiscal and monetary policy coordination and effective management with the debt portfolio since 1999. This will also be documented. The successful implementation of the macroeconomic policy of the Government and its particularly public financial policy in the period 2000-2004 have also contributed significantly to Slovenia's international reputation. The World Bank, as the first of the new Member States of the European Union, ranks Slovenia among the most developed countries in the world. The European Union has adopted our first convergence programme without specific recommendations. It was just another country from the new Member States. In particular, due to the balanced macroeconomic policy of the last medium-term period, Slovenia entered ERM 2 on 28 June 2004 as part of the European Exchange Banking Mechanism. It would be impossible to enter into a European exchange rate mechanism, it would be impossible to agree with the European Central Bank and the European Commission on this entry, if what is being tried here is around this catastrophic situation in Slovenia, this bad situation in Slovenia, that nothing goes wrong with everything being bad. If it were that bad, we wouldn't be in the EU, we wouldn't be in ERM 2 and, of course, we wouldn't be able to have the same grade as we had. In the period 2000/2004, we are prepared to implement the tax reform. The basic starting point for the reform income adopted in the coalition contract to relieve the income of natural persons was realized by the new Income Act, which was adopted in May 2005 and will apply as from 1 January 2005. With the new Income Act, taxpayers will pay 10% less income than in the current system. The amount of untaxed income shall be set at the level of the amount still providing social security in accordance with the social security rules. We've raised that amount. We have deliberately raised this amount because we want to have such a tax policy that those who have higher wages are more taxly burdened and those who have lower, of course, less tax burdened. The new law removes inflationary mechanisms that are no longer needed under low inflation conditions, as it follows the objectives of family policy management as tax incentives significantly support families more children. This was an important discussion, a long coordination. I think we have come up with a satisfactory solution in the end, because in providing special reliefs for certain purposes, it takes particular account of the situation of those who are solving their housing problem. I believe that the new Income Act has achieved the objectives we set ourselves at the beginning of the mandate. In doing so, the new Income Act will also lead to work stress in Slovenia, perhaps too small. I am convinced that we must move forward with the burden of work, but within the overall framework. Thus, labour costs per salary of 67% of the average wage in processing activities will be reduced by 1.9%. In the period 2000-2004, the government reduced the tax on paid salaries. As you know, it was agreed in a social agreement that the limit would be 150,000 tolars. In agreement with the social partners on wage policy, we decided to accelerate the achievement of the objective. However, the aim is to abolish the payroll tax in time and so we have already proposed this year, and a law has also been passed, with which we have raised this limit to 165,000 tolars. This reduced labour costs mainly in the labour-intensive sectors. And the reduction of this tax means, of course, a relief of labour costs. A new law on corporate income tax will give small and medium-sized enterprises a greater development potential. Following an examination of the impact of existing tax exemptions and tax rates on individual economic aggregates, the Government decided that it was appropriate to maintain a higher tax rate and to restructure tax exemptions. With tax reliefs, particular emphasis is placed on investing in research and the development of employment. Additional relief of 10% of the invested amount in equipment is foreseen. In particular, they are intended to facilitate the employment of a highly educated workforce. It reduces or reshapes a tax relief that is becoming development-oriented. In the area of social policy, the government has defined social inclusion policy as one of its policy advantages. The European Commission report, which measures the level of social inclusion, places Slovenia first among all Member States of the European Union. Again, this is not a report from this government, it is not a report from customers who would like to compete and, of course, show a better situation in this way. This is a simple report from the European Commission, which puts us at the top of the European Union. A programme to combat poverty and social inclusion has been prepared. A joint memorandum on social inclusion was signed with the European Commission. In July 2004, the government also adopted a national action plan on social inclusion from the 2000/2004 period. Significant changes in social transfers were introduced between 2000 and 2002. Cash social assistance, child allowances and social transfers for single-parent families were increased. A large family allowance, a state pension, a reduction in non-profit rents, etc. were introduced. All these measures have an impact on the gradual reduction of the risk of poverty. Monetary social assistance and other social transfers provide the beneficiaries with livelihoods, and thus, in addition to other measures, have a significant impact on reducing the risk of poverty. Data on the risk of poverty have shown us since 1997 a decline in the risk of poverty in Slovenia. The level of poverty risk in Slovenia was 12.9% according to the latest data. Nobody says it's a low level. This is still a relatively high level and it is necessary to fight to lower it. However, the comparable data for the European Union is 15% and the level of poverty risk we have in Slovenia; this level of poverty risk is lower and below average, according to the European Union. Of course, we are aware that poverty rates cannot be reduced by social transfers alone. This is why many other measures have also been aimed at this objective. The most important ones are those, and a few later talks will be about this, which are intended to extend the opportunities for education, more places of entry, reduce the bulk of the waste, improve the skills of employees with lifelong learning and thus prevent the risk of losing their jobs. In this context, the measures and programmes of the active employment policy are also of great importance, and 293 thousand 905 persons have been integrated by the end of June 2004. More will be said by the Minister of Labour. Dear Members and Members! There are still many areas in the report that we have engaged in in in the last mandate, in which we have engaged together, in which we have made progress and steps forward. Let me just say some. Here was an indication of how politics does not withdraw from the country, that it is actually the opposite, we have listened before, and is increasingly entangled in businesses. We've decided to withdraw our policy from the country. And here's some information. In particular, I would like to provide information because I do not want to respond to flat-rate findings only with flat-rate responses. If you look at the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the capital company and the SOD during this period, 1999-2004 or 2000-2004, then you can see that in 1999 we had capital investments, the state and the state in 1,167 companies, in 2004 in 634 companies, virtually by 50%. So they won't tell me I'm overreacting, I'll say we've obviously reduced the country's presence in the economy by more than 40%. We're not saying that's enough. We do not argue that it is necessary to continue to reduce the presence of the State in companies, but we will strongly oppose the reduction of the presence of the State and the sale of state property in any case and everywhere. Some have criticised us for not privatizing all the banks to the end and selling them to strangers. We opted for a privatisation model, which we talked about very much in the National Assembly, in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, where we achieved the property structure of a third-third-third. At the New Credit Bank Maribor we decided not to sell it, because there was no need to sell it at any cost, because there was no real strategic partner to ensure development, not only New Credit Bank Maribor, but the entire region, Maribor and Styria. [[Back-up advertising.]] Nevertheless, we have achieved the ownership structure that if you can just a little if you can say so now so can I. [[...]] [[...]] See, the ownership structure in Slovenian banks today is such that approximately 36% of the ownership of Slovenian banks is owned by foreigners. If we compare this today with Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania, then this is essentially too small, then everything needs to be sold out immediately. But if we compare this with those countries I have talked about, with Austria, Germany, France, with our external trading partners, with those with which we want to compare ourselves, then this is a comparable ownership structure. And later, the Minister of Finance will also show you this ownership structure, so that we can look at data, including data on the country's share in businesses. There are many other areas. For example, wage policy. The pay policy was discussed these days by the President of the Free Trade Unions Association, Mr Semolič, who said what had been achieved in wage policy. One major shift – and we will have a lot to talk about – including in the area of public sector wage policies, we have reached an agreement with the social partners. In short, we have two agreements in this mandate: an agreement on the policy of wages in the economy, an agreement on the policy of wages in the economy and a social agreement. We have achieved all this together with the social partners, employers, workers and, of course, the country. And the wage movement is relatively favourable. It is true, and it must also be acknowledged that we have adopted a law on civil servants' salaries and have not agreed to trade unions until the end to reach a solution in the public sector on concrete salaries. We agreed on a wage ratio of one to ten, but we have not completed the whole project yet, but the project is practically agreed on and the Minister of the Interior will say something about it, which was directly involved in these talks, and will tell us what the facts are about pay policy. In the area of health, it would be very good if we brought about a health reform and I believe we will. However, we have, of course, made some of the movements that the Minister of Health will be talking about, especially in the part where the services are concerned, for people, for citizens and for citizens, we have reduced waiting periods, this is very important. We have also reduced health losses and also changed the management and functioning of health care. We have done a lot in the field of higher education, science and technology. We have so many students as never before, openness to study, education is bigger than ever. In the field of science and technology, we have taken important steps forward. If you look at the public spending, we have made the greatest efforts and steps forward in this area. We are now about 1.6.7% of gross domestic product for research and development. Our target is significantly higher, that's 3%. In the field of agriculture, we were just this week talking about what had been done. There is much good, including with our previous coalition partner and in cooperation with the former Minister of Agriculture, we have something to show for agriculture. In the field of information society, we can practically compare ourselves with the European Union in all parameters and are happy to show you this information. In the area of regional development, perhaps more needs to be done. In the area of regional development, we have been able to reduce, increasing differences in the development of individual regions. And these differences are relatively small. However, of course, we want the individual regions to grow even more rapidly and more rapidly. However, this is impossible without investments, but it is impossible if we do not have the investments we have in Revoz. If we prevent investments involving 3,000 people, where 3,000 people are guaranteed, then we will have even greater regional differences. We must go with stimulating regional policy and, of course, by encouraging such investments as we have managed to realise in Revoz. If we make investments worth half a billion dollars, if we provide 3,300 jobs, then that is the achievement we want to point out and not make a fool out of it. In the field of environment, space and energy, indicators of human development show that we have taken steps forward. Perhaps too careful, perhaps too intense, but we often weighed on one side the costs of these measures and, of course, on the other hand also that primary objective, that is to protect the environment and improve environmental protection. In the field of justice, we are not satisfied with many things, and we have expressed this dissatisfaction several times. My assessment is that we have a programme to ensure greater legal certainty and greater efficiency of justice. In the area of culture, we have prepared and adopted a national programme for the development of culture. I believe we're going to make it happen. So in the past years, of course, I believe this and we will try to convince citizens and citizens, we have taken great steps forward, we have changed Slovenia well. We have changed it for the better, and we have managed to achieve most of the objectives achieved. I am sure that Slovenia can be further improved if, of course, we improve it on a real basis, in real analysis, in facts, to see where the problems are, and in those areas, we improve things. I believe that in the coming days we will face our programmes, how and how we can improve individual things. We believe that in the direction of those most developed countries, not in the direction of those I spoke about earlier, we can be among the best and among the most successful. Of course, I believe that Slovenia will be able to resemble the most developed. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is given by the Minister of Economy, Dr. Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to respond in a few minutes to the interpellation. First of all, I'd like to point out two things that are exposed at the very beginning of this interpolation. The first fact you point out is that the government, by putting the development strategy of Slovenia into public consultation for the period 2005-2013, would thus recognise the inefficiency of the strategies so far and further state that no one is monitoring the implementation of these strategies. If you'll allow me, like you, I'd use the company's image. Companies in turbulent situations are also preparing strategies for the future period. Gorenje as well as Lek. For the next four, six, eight-year period. Of course, this does not mean that everything in the past has sucked. It's just a normal strategic planning process. And just as you used the parable earlier when you talked about owners that they should be concerned, we think that taxpayers should be concerned if they did not submit to the public debate a strategy for the development of Slovenia for the future period. That's why we did it. And secondly, when you say no one is following these implementation strategies, the Prime Minister has already mentioned that this is done annually, periodically. For this there are spring reports from the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which you are also citing. Dr. Bajuk also refers to them several times. I must say, I'm surprised he forgot about that while you were writing this interpretation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to stop with the first data first. There was talk of economic growth, it was too low. Somehow you find that this is less than promised. Slovenia grew at an average annual real rate of 4,2 % between 1994 and 2001. She reached it without any major imbalances. You mentioned some other countries in transition. That's right. In individual periods, they had higher economic growth, but they also faced significantly higher payment-balance sheet imbalances, including a significantly higher rate of unemployment. For the period 2001-2004, Slovenia grew with an average real annual growth of 3%. In the euro area, this growth was 1.2%, by 1.8% per year on average. And then you said it didn't matter how it was there. We want to know what it's like here. Look. The expected economic growth in the US also affects not only shares of US companies, but also shares of companies on European markets, especially those exporting to the US. And, of course, the expected economic growth in our key economic partners. Real growth in Germany, Italy, France, Austria also affects the sale of Slovenian companies in their key markets. This also reflects lower Slovenian economic growth than expected, which was significantly higher than average growth in the euro area over the whole period than I said 1.8%. That is why Slovenia has overrun the gross domestic product, measured by purchasing power, already one of the old members of the European Union, this is Portugal, and therefore also the catch-up of the most developed European Union country. In all these years, Slovenia’s economic growth has been 1 to 2% higher than in the European Union. The exception is the year 2000. There it must be acknowledged that growth in Slovenia was only 0.3% higher in 2000 than in the European Union in 2000. On average, the total four-year period was higher from 1 to 2% in Slovenia. You talked about the need to talk about absolute data, about what was actually done. Now I could say that during all this period, productivity has grown real, that real gross and net wages have increased. Let's look at the data again. If you take real gross wage growth, on average in 2003 to 2000, you see that this growth is 7.2%, real. If you express it in euros and take it in June 2004 and compare it with June 2000, you will see that in June the average net salary, expressed in euros, was EUR 576, today 600 or June 2004 was EUR 690, 114 being the difference. I'm talking about the salary expressed in euros. If we're talking about real gross wage growth, expressed in tolars, it's 7.2%. The following information, which is essential, you talked about researching the Institute of Management. If we look at credit risk assessments for selected countries in 2000 and 2004, then you see that the rating in Slovenia has increased significantly during this period. We have captured Italy and overrun countries as previously mentioned - Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and Greece are also following this rating. In short, substantial progress has been made here. I could've taken the data as well. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which show that Slovenia is an extremely attractive location in terms of credit risk and investment security. [[...]] You mentioned this famous, now somehow famous Institute of Management and criticise the slow development of Slovenia. You've also made my statements. I have been very specific in these statements: Where this institute measured economic performance according to real data, and these data are relative if you compare different large countries: Slovenia with Poland, Slovenia with the Czech Republic, then of course there is great stupidity, I think we all agree that if you measure this data in the total number of employees, the total number of employees in Slovenia with those in the Czech Republic. Or if you measure this data in a gross domestic product in dollars, a small Slovenian country several times larger. Or, say, you also measure exports to commercial services in millions of dollars and compare it with several times the size of a country. According to these criteria, which are absolute, and if you take this research that I have here, and you take ten of these indicators, where Slovenia actually falls short, you see that seven of them are absolute, expressed in nominal numbers, as I said. Two are derived from the research and only one is relative. And then I said, if you take it where Slovenia ranks well, and that's also after economic performance, but you'll see that of these ten indicators there are nine relative, which also allow comparison of small and large countries, and one is an index. And I will be very specific because the people have the right to know very specifically what we are talking about. For example, exports of commercial services to millions of dollars are ranked 54th in Slovenia from 60 countries. Exports of commercial services in millions of dollars. If you take the export of commercial services, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product, which shows the actual openness and development of the economy, we are in the 18th place. That's what I'm talking about. And that this study is methodologically controversial, this was not invented by the Prime Minister, nor was it invented by the Minister of Economic Affairs, but was also highlighted in their performances by the performers of this research in Slovenia from the Institute of Economic Research. Some of the most visible Slovenian managers were also critical to this study. I've already mentioned their names in this esteemed institution, so I don't think I need to point them out again. In these international comparisons, it is necessary to be realistic. And we just want to actually show what the real picture is. However, I do not think it is appropriate to be misleading in stating these studies. As I said, I have been very specific in these opinions, and I have also talked about specific problems. Earlier, the Prime Minister had responded nicely to this observation about the slow withdrawal of the country from the economy. He indicated that the number of investments of the capital company, the Slovenian Indemnity Company in Slovenian companies is significantly decreasing by more than 40% in the last four-year period. Of course, these data hold and actually show that. This retreat is gradual. If, for this, these institutions had withdrawn overnight and sold assets on the Slovenian capital market, which is relatively shallow, this would have been an exceptional pressure on the sale of shares and the final recovery of both para-national institutions would have been significantly lower. And if I'm specific again, you all remember that the price of Gorenje in 2000 was about 2,000 tolars, today it's over 6,000 tolars. The Slovenian compensation company is now withdrawing from the ownership structure of Gorenje and will receive three times more for this package than it would have received in 2000. If you take the Slovenian stock exchange index, you will see that in 2000 there were approximately 1700 index points. I have a month in November or I apologize, in July 2004 there are 4,700 index points, which means that it has increased by two wholes seven times. It is clear that it is only economically justified for para-state institutions to withdraw from the ownership structure when they can also receive an appropriate price for their equity shares. And if we are specific again, in the case of Lek, the Slovenian public will remember, there were two conditions being pursued. The first was that Lek, if it has to be sold, will be sold to a suitable strategic partner who will provide Lek with an even faster opportunity for its development in the framework of a multinational. There was a lot of synergy. We all knew that Novartis was a more suitable partner than any other Anglo-Saxon company that had less emphasis on social responsibility to the local environment. We know that at that time they managed to withstand a relatively high price, to negotiate well together and that Lek is developing very successfully today, to increase its revenues and thus to pay more taxes and contributions to the Slovenian budget. Thus, two principles have to be followed in this regard. First, at what price you withdraw, and secondly, to find such a strategic partner that allows Slovenian companies to develop more rapidly. We, I mean, really shouldn't care about the fate of the employees in these companies, about the fate of the research cores in these companies and so on. Here, as I have said, I mean or I am sure, as it is clear, that the readings are by no means justified. If we give again another case of withdrawal from the economy. One could mention the energy sector that foreign analysts are referring to could be rail transport. But look, this is where you just have to follow some kind of sequence. You need to be careful. We all know what happened in California with the rapid privatisation of their energy system. And if that were to happen with us, this discussion would now be held at the candlelight, not at the soybean of the light. I think we're having this discussion, I mean, when we're talking about sales, we're also talking about the withdrawal of countries from the ownership structure of businesses, and there's a certain amount of exposure to the sale of foreigners. This is also dictated by the experience of foreign countries. If we take rail transport and our colleague Pavlih will explain this much better, you all know that the English Government has decided on a number of occasions to privatise, that this has also affected rail safety, that there is, of course, a difference between passenger, freight and infrastructure. This withdrawal of the country from individual sectors is simply a strategy that needs to be taken into account. We agree very much with ourselves that there is also a need to increase competition in each sector in parallel. However, it is not possible to ignore when you mention foreign institutions, foreign economic advisers, that there are also various advisers here who have completely legitimate economic interests. When I meet with representatives of foreign diplomats myself, the question is often how fast privatisation will be in individual areas. Of course they have interests, because it is right to have them, but of course we must also represent the public interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this withdrawal. As I said, the very data on the sales of these shares shows that they were sold when the Slovenian compensation company withdrew from companies at a significantly higher price than they had been a few years ago. And that is why we should not care, because I have already said that there is a hole in the denationalisation treasury of 150 billion tolars, which is 75,000 tolars per capita and population of Slovenia. This hole should also be closed by carefully selling these investments that the Slovenian Compensation Company has. I was somehow accused of going here to ideologies. It's not about that. It's about some kind of economic interest. These factors should also be considered. I'd like to stop very briefly on three more matters. In the interpretation you also mentioned the problem of registering new companies, that this is still three months. Of course, this procedure, or time, was reduced from three months to one month. And we admit it ourselves, personally, if you want this deadline to be too long, so I also said that we want to shorten it for a few days; that procedures need to be as simplified as possible here. And that's what we do. In the short term, when the National Assembly is operational, there will also be an amendment to the Company Act, Articles 75 and 76, which will accelerate these procedures. But I think we all really want them to get as short as possible. The other thing is that it concerns foreign direct investment. But here I have to say that I was extremely surprised at today's performances. Dr. Bayuk himself mentioned that nothing had been done. Last July, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we adopted the relevant legislation on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of the business of Slovenian companies, establishing an appropriate institutional framework. I was very pleased because the debate on the Committee on the Economy was also constructive by the opposition, who also supported this law. [[Some were present and will remember]] . And I have to say that somehow I felt that there was some kind of development consensus here that we agreed on, but I see that you obviously also have some kind of obvious evidence here that I think is absolutely not justified. Last but not least, the country's already highly criticised support for Renault, supported by the country with EUR 40 million, with Renault investing in Slovenia with an additional EUR 360 million, making a completely new model of X 44 in Slovenia alone in Slovenia, nowhere else in the world, producing a technology model, producing 210,000 cars in 2007 and now only 118,000 cars in Slovenia. While this state support will return in the form of taxes and contributions paid earlier than in three years, this will also open the way for various Slovenian suppliers, including small or especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to increase their activity to choose their place within the multinational. The argument, why this investment is reckless, was, "We would like to invest this money in incubators." I'm just going to ask why they're so stupid in Renault and the 360 million euros they're going to invest here don't invest in these incubators themselves. Why, then, across Europe – and I have already cited specific cases of countries, Spain, in Edolido Czecha to Kalino, Trna Slovakia, I have even cited the case of Škoda Mladi Boleslav. Why do they also promote foreign direct investment in this way? Why is this the only problem in Slovenia if we have thus provided in Dolenjska, New Town, 2,800 jobs that would not otherwise exist, and a potentially hundreds of jobs with suppliers? Why at this pre-election time? And why someone remembers that after eight months. And for the third time, and I will conclude with this, perhaps only what concerns my department on coherent regional development. See, over the next period, between 2004 and 2006, 8.3 billion tolars will be allocated to promote the development of tourist destinations. There was also a broad discussion as to whether it was the real projects of the line. Only if we talk about regional development, after three openings are 84% of these funds going to less developed regions, and the regions we call so-called A and B after development, to more developed regions called C and D, and only 16%. And this also ensures coherent regional development. In this way, too, in endangered, demographically endangered areas, such as Prekmurje, for example, other areas could count, provide and open up new quality jobs in labour intensive activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] The word is from the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr President! Allow me to respond to key indications from the interpretation of the work relating to the Ministry of Finance. The indications relate mainly to public finances, Slovenia's indebtedness, the effectiveness of the financial system and the tax system. If I start with public finances first. Interpellation states that public spending is expected to increase over the years and should not be settled at about 42% of the gross domestic product as set out in the Coalition Treaty. Slovenia, however, is expected to be one of the most burdened economies in Europe after the share of public expenditure. To explain this position. The scope of public financial expenditure is, but we are now using the methodology and this national methodology, following the 2004 revised gross domestic product, which was pointed out by Dr. Bajuk, who was also the basis of the coalition contract, during the period 2001/2003, the level of public financial expenditure was around 42% of the gross domestic product, as shown by the picture, and is thus in line with the objective of the coalition contract. You can also see from the picture that not all the years have seen this amount of government spending increase. In 2004, we need to correct the grossing data because we had to pay and draw funds from the European Union, which was not the case in previous years, so what the blue column shows is the right thing to do. This is said not to be true and that what was enshrined in the contract was actually carried out. Nor does it state that Slovenia is one of the most burdened economies following the share of gross domestic product expenditure. On the contrary, according to the European Commission, we need to use ESOs for comparability because the national methodology is not comparable to the national methodologies of other countries, according to this methodology, the share of public expenditure in gross domestic product in Slovenia in 2003 was lower than the EU average of 25 below the EU average of 15, says the old Member States, and lower than the average of the new Member States. Red is the EU 25 and green is Slovenia. As can be seen from the picture, there were 14 countries with a higher share than Slovenia. The following statement of interpolation states: The public deficit has not changed to surplus after three years of decline. That's a yes. However, unlike the indications from the 2001-2004 interpolation, Slovenia made significant progress in the economic and financial field, despite a significantly poorer international economic environment. That's what the next picture tells you. Despite the lower growth rates, Slovenia has managed to reduce the public financial deficit all year round, we are showing that we can compare with the data from the European Union, while in the EU 15 per cent of the gross domestic product of 2000, this is a lynx, which has exceeded the general government deficit of 2.2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2004, precisely due to lower growth rates. If we look at it, we see that the dashed blue has gone from surplus to surplus to deficit, while ours, this is a red line, has gone from a deficit slowly to a deficit that has been substantially smaller and even lower in the end than the deficit of the European Union average. In this way, Slovenia has managed to make a significant leap forward between all EU Member States and will also have a lower deficit than the EU average in 2004. If you look now, this is the year 2000, Slovenia is red, only two countries had a higher deficit than Slovenia, all the rest are lower. While in 2004 you can see that Slovenia had a smaller deficit than the average of the European Union. Creating a fiscal surplus under conditions significantly lowering economic growth would, of course, make no sense, as fiscal policy would also significantly reduce economic activity in addition to negative external developments. However, the calculations show that the surplus could be achieved if the international conjuncture was the same as that forecasted by virtually all international institutions in 2000. And all the other countries. I am going to the debt area of the wider sector of the country and public debt. Interpellation states: Public debt is expected to increase excessively and should not settle between 30% and 45% of gross domestic product. However, the data show that public debt settled between 35 and 40 % between 2000 and 2003 as shown in the picture. In this way, the objective of the Coalition Treaty was met. It is essential, however, that Slovenia remains one of the least indebted members of the European Union, as shown in the following picture, Slovenia with red. Only as you can see, four Member States are less indebted than Slovenia and all the other members are more. In 2003, there was already a positive trend in the general government debt trend, as the debt situation decreased in 2003 compared to the debt situation in 2002 from 27.9% of gross domestic product to 27.7% of gross domestic product [[Only to warn you, the appropriate Maastricht criterion allows 60% of the gross domestic product]] . Reducing the share of debt in gross domestic product is a combination of the positive effects of government policies, namely, restrictive fiscal policies over the past years, although the economic situation has been relatively complex, reducing inflation as a result of effective fiscal and monetary policy coordination, effective debt management [[As you know, we have been reducing the share of indexed instruments and replacing debt with fixed-rate instruments and replacing more expensive debt with cheaper]] and the use of part of the purchase from the sale of the capital share of Nova Ljubljanska Banka for early repayment of the most expensive debt [[Debt takeover volumes were also lower]] . The positive effects of government policies in recent years are also clear from the trend in debt servicing costs [[this is shown in Figure 6]] . The average effective interest rate of the total debt started to decrease as of 2001 and fell to 6.6% in 2002 and the downward trend continues in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, the effective interest rate was 6.4%. In the picture you can see the share of interest costs in the gross domestic product that fell, as you can see, to 1.8%. The following statement of interpolation says: "As a result, the public debt is expected to be at the end of November 2003 for the weak 13 billion euros already." This is not true, since the total public debt, public sector debt, domestic and external debt, amounted to EUR 9.2 billion at the end of 2003 and EUR 6.7 billion at the end of the country-wide debt. We anticipate that the proposaler, with the reference to EUR 13 billion, had in mind Slovenia's external debt, which consists of the external debt of the public sector, the private sector and the natural persons, amounting to EUR 13 billion at the end of the year. Nevertheless, it is worth saying that both the external debt of the public sector and the external debt of Slovenia are relatively low. This is an important indicator of the creditworthiness of the country, which was taken into account by credit rating agencies also in the latest increase in Slovenia's credit rating. As we know, the balance of payments of Slovenia has been in the grave all the last years in balance, but of course this information has no direct connection with the coalition contract. The third area is the financial system. Interpellation states that the partial privatisation of banks is expected to take place in a very non-transparent manner. On 30 June 2004, the share of the state's equity capital was 19.2%), as shown by the picture, while at the end of 2000, 36.8% were still available. This is said to have decreased significantly. And the share of 19.2%, if we compare it to our neighbors, is completely nothing out of the ordinary. Although the data I have are somewhat old for 2000, because we have no newer data, but, for example, if we look at Italy, Italy has 25% of state-owned banks, Austria had 4.4%, Germany 42.9%, Greece even 62.8% state-owned banks. From this point of view, of course, we see that there is absolutely nothing unusual about ownership if the country is 19.2% owner. The country is the majority owner only in NKBM. It is not clear from what evidence of the non-transparent nature of the privatisation of banks is that the sale was made through tenders published in domestic and international media and in accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Regulation on the Procedures for the Sale of State Property. Furthermore, the interpolation indicates that the Slovenian banking system should not be effective enough because of Banka Slovenije's monetary policy, which has allowed foreign exchange flows to be sterilised to commercial banks more than the market. Banks are not supposed to be forced to lower active interest rates. Of course, this claim that banks did not lower active interest rates is not true, since the average nominal interest rates for the Tolar short-term loans to the non-bank sector decreased from 13.8%, the first quarter in 2000, to 9.1% of the first quarter in 2004. For tolar long-term loans from 15.2%, for the same period, to 8.8%. The interest margin also decreased from 4.5% in 2000 to 2.9% in 2004. At the same time, the share of the balance sheet total of the banking sector in gross domestic product has been increasing for a number of years, from 75.1% in 2000 to 87.9% in 2003. Performance indicators for the period 2000-2003 are stable, with the exception of 2001 the problem has been identified due to the significant loss of the third largest bank, which is now predominantly foreign-owned, and better than most countries in the EU. In 2003, the Slovenian banking system showed profitable capital of 12,8 also increased the cost-effectiveness of Slovenian banks. Thus, this claim is very questionable. The following entry in the interpolation says: "The Slovenian insurance sector is expected to be relatively underdeveloped compared to developed countries, as it is expected to be only 8.7% of insurance premiums compared to the gross domestic product. By arguing that the Slovenian insurance sector is relatively underdeveloped compared to the developed countries, we can only agree in part. Such a claim would withstand the development of life insurance, but we cannot generalise this claim across the entire insurance sector, as the development of property insurance is completely comparable to such insurance in other EU Member States, as these old EU Member States say. Slovenian insurance premiums already exceed the average of these old EU members who had 3.3% of gross domestic product premiums in 2002 and the Republic of Slovenia 4% in 2002. It says it's over. Up to now, poor living and pension insurance accounts for a great deal of growth. Thus, the growth of the total gross premium in gross domestic product is mainly due to the growth of life insurance. In Slovenia, the share of the gross insurance premium in gross domestic product in 2001 was 5% and in the EU 15 was 9.1%, while for the new members it was 3.5%. It is said that we are significantly taller than the new members. Further indication of interpolation refers to the functioning of the capital market, where transparency and the development of the system of punishment of those who abuse the insider position is not ensured. Our answer is regarding the development of a system for sanctioning the misuse of internal information and we can point out that the government in this area in 2004 sent to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on the securities market adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly in July. The purpose of this Act was to transpose the provisions of the EU Directives adopted in 2003 specifically in the field of market abuse, to which internal information trading belongs and thus to more effective regulation of the control and sanctioning of the prohibition of trade on the basis of this information. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia has fulfilled its obligation to transpose those directives even before the deadline expires in October 2004. With this regulation, the implementation deadline will also be aligned with other EU members. Amendments to the law also extend the powers of the Securities Market Agency, which is now also a criminal body for violations of this law, and the minimum penalties for offences relating to the prohibition of the use of internal information have either increased or extended to certain offences which are newly defined as offences. In addition, in April this year, in the work relating to the misuse of internal information, criminal law has also been amended. Among other things, a higher prison sentence of up to 5 years has been imposed for the abuse of internal information, with which a person gains a great deal of wealth. A more precise provision on the subjective act will allow law enforcement and judicial authorities to identify and sanction these crimes more effectively and more effectively. So much for the financial system. I'm moving on to the area of taxation. Interpellation states that wages are expected to be borne by excessive taxes. In 1994, the government introduced a tax on the payroll and the labour force, which was already discussed by the Prime Minister, but some emphasis. The levy on paid salaries was introduced on 1 July 1996 and compensated for the loss of public finances revenue due to a reduction in the rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance by four percentage points. This enabled the financing of the compulsory state budget disability pension scheme to be financed without the payment of salaries to the sum of 90,000 tolars, which represented the average of wages paid in the labour intensive sectors. Thus, wages in the labour-intensive sectors under the worst impact of international competition were unloaded. The government is continuing to reduce labour taxes and has also proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a reduction in the tax on salaries and income paid, which the National Assembly also adopted by raising the threshold for the taxation of salaries by a tax on salaries paid to 165 thousand dollars and, taking into account the new income, the cost of work for wages of 67% of the average wage in processing activities is reduced by 3.8% of the percentage point. Furthermore, the interpretation states that Slovenia should remain one of Europe's most heavily burdened economies after the share of public expenditure in gross domestic product. This is why it is not possible to replace the declining revenues with new taxes, as this should reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia is, of course, not one of Europe's most heavily burdened economies. As measured by the share of taxes collected in gross domestic product, Slovenia is in all cases comparable to other EU Member States, as confirmed by Figure 9 - EU 25, the average is green, the red is Slovenia. We believe that, not because of falling revenues, but because of improving the structure of tax resources in Slovenia, it is necessary to rationalise public spending and thereby make room for further reductions in taxation as little as possible. And allow me to conclude. Dear Members, Members, Mr President! Allow me to conclude by commenting on the interpretation of the interpretation that the government should not lower the level of inflation to the promised one, that it has not achieved a stabilisation of debt or a redistribution of tax burdens. At the same time, the government is supposed to lead an irresponsible fiscal policy that is expected to result in a reduction in investment, inflation and debt abroad. The actual situation is as follows. Inflation has declined steadily, this shows a picture of 10 since 2001, with an average of 4.2% in July 2004, which is better than the target of 4.5% in the coalition contract. In doing so, the difference between domestic and European inflation continues to decline steadily, showing the difference between the red and blue lines. As we have shown, Slovenia has achieved the stabilisation of public debt under the coalition contract, between 35% and 40% of gross domestic product, has stabilised to 38.5%. Next. The tax reform adopted will significantly reduce the tax burden on those with the lowest income. It's about investments. Investments have not been reduced in recent years, but vice versa. They have increased both at national economic level and in the public sector. The real volume of investments increased by 19.7% between 2000 and 2004. During the same period, the real gross domestic product increased by 11.9%. Total public expenditure on investments amounted to 4% of gross domestic product in 2000 and 4.7 gross domestic product in 2004 and in total public expenditure increased, and the share increased from 9.6% to 10.6%. In the State budget, however, all investment expenditure in 2000 amounted to 2.3% of gross domestic product and in 2004 it was 2.9%. And in the structure of the state budget, they increased from 9.8 to 10.9%. About the debt. Slovenia has not been in debt abroad since 2001. The picture shows you the proportion, this is the debt in the gross domestic product, as you can see, this percentage is falling, of course it is falling because we did not owe ourselves and the gross domestic product has grown. And the last. Responsible fiscal policy has been cited by credit rating agencies as one of the most important reasons for Slovenia's latest increase in rating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Minister Vlado Dimovski has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u20	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. It is of course important, at the outset, to point out that it is one of the most important, if not the most important, achievements of the mandate to adapt legislation and programming documents to the documents of the Directive and to the various resolutions of the European Union, in particular the legal order which has, of course, enabled the harmonisation of policies in Slovenia, so that we have landed relatively gently, at least for the time being, in the European Union. As for the other elements, according to the elements cited by the interpolation, I would like to say a few words myself. As a basic strategic objective, we could say that achieving balanced social economic development is the main objective of Slovenia, and I hope that it will remain so in the future. Slovenia is developing on the one hand as a competitive economically viable country and also raising the standard of living of the population. The objective of individual policies is therefore to this end, and in particular the employment policy objective, where the main elements of the social partnership to which the basic objective is a society of full employment, and the basic measures of the employment policy are aimed at employment growth and, of course, at reducing unemployment. As a country of the European Union, of course, we are also committed to the objectives presented by the European Union and the European Employment Strategy, so that Slovenia has approached the strategic objectives of the Lisbon European Council as full employment, improving the quality of labour productivity, strengthening the social cohesion of inclusion. This is a key priority within Slovenian employment policy and especially in terms of full membership in the European Union. As far as individual elements are concerned, we could say, and by indications that the situation in the labour market in Slovenia is more favourable than in the European Union countries. This does not only apply to the general level of unemployment and the level of employment, but is also lower than the rate of youth unemployment in the European Union and the rate of women's unemployment. Of course, we also do not deny some of the structural inconsistencies that exist in Slovenia in the labour market, which are due to various factors and with which the employment policy in Slovenia is being adequately tackled. Above all, this is also the subject of an active employment policy, with individual instruments, which I will especially talk about briefly later. In part, the criticism in interpolation also focuses on the relationship between active and passive measures to help the unemployed, which was, for example, even in 1998 1:3, when we compare resources, and in 2003 was only 1:1.5, which represents a strategic shift in understanding employment policy from passive measures to active measures. It is particularly important to stress here that restructuring measures have also taken place, including in line with the European Employment Strategy, where most measures are directed at unemployed persons, employers and those who do not have adequate education, which still represents an important element of non-inclusion in the labour market. It is therefore important to say that the various measures, for example, that are in favour of increasing the qualification structure of the unemployed, are one of the important priority measures of employment policy [[let me just mention the 5000 program that became the 10,000 plus program]] , so that those unemployed or unemployed persons who have a relatively low or inadequate qualification structure and level of competence can be prepared for a job or an appropriate professional qualification. As one of the indications was that the lack of adequate funding for active employment policy has also been mentioned, let me say that more than 70% of all active employment policy funds are focused on areas with an over-average high unemployment rate, indicating the country's action in the right direction, that is to say, in the direction of directing resources where they are most needed, which I would like to stress here in particular. For example, in the Maribor or Podraval region, unemployment has dropped from 20% in the last four years to around 16.5%, which is an extremely large drop in unemployment. However, it is particularly important to say that fewer than 90,000 unemployed persons were registered at the end of this June, which is less for good 15,000 people than it was in December 2000, and that this trend of reducing unemployment continues in this year – we can be satisfied with it. We could also say that, when we are talking about different numbers, the unemployment rate is also measured by indicators of the international labour organisation by 1.5 percentage points lower than the average unemployment rate in the European Union countries. However, so that statistics do not become an evaluator and criteria for everything, let us say that it is and will be for this government – and I hope that for the future as well – the concern of reducing unemployment remains one of the important priorities. It is therefore important that, as long as one is unemployed or unemployed in this country alone, the employment policy must, of course, be directed towards reducing unemployment. Let me just put some numbers in the illustration, not just to argue with someone. In four years, the various active employment policy programmes, which is an important regulator or element of the labour market policy, included almost 300,000 people in different programmes, various qualification programmes, training, retraining and the like. It is particularly important to say here because the active employment policy has taken on a part that the unfavourable international environment has implied by the relatively low absorption power of our export markets, which, of course, has resulted in a relatively lower rate of economic growth than envisaged, and this has also been said in a speech before me. If you will allow me to say briefly in this brief introduction that it is not, of course, questionable that the formal credibility of representativeness is related to the interpretation of the true credibility and representativeness of the social partners. The conditions for the operation of the union are exactly the same for everyone and the state does not interfere with them. The acquisition of the characteristics of representativeness for trade unions is regulated by the law on the representativeness of trade unions, and in fact there is no specific provision for employers' organisations to regulate this area. International comparisons even show that, in comparison with some EU countries, this part of representativeness is, of course, exemplary and that many European Union countries do not have as regulated a process of gaining representativeness as we do. This, of course, also enables the exemplary development of social dialogue in our country. Some of these basic achievements have already been said by the Prime Minister, and let me say them again, because I think they are extremely important for the cohesion of Slovenian society. This is first of all the pension reform, then, the Labour Relations Act, then the social agreement, which is the result of a very long-standing hard coordination with the social partners, which, of course, represents one of the basic elements of the agreement and stability of the Slovenian State and society in the future, which, of course, I want or want to see in the future social dialogue and the development of the social partnership also have both the intensity level and so far. Allow me to say something further about family policy. Here, of course, this is a very complex area, but I would mention something that is being replaced in some performances. Family policy is not a policy, demographic policy or anything else, which many textbooks teach us, but I would say that family policy for the Slovenian situation is of course very important, and the government has also implemented a policy within the framework of measures and legislative options, which is supposed to mean improved opportunities for children and families. The measures to be outlined, which are also reflected in legislative solutions, were mainly aimed at the following objectives because of the naturalistic movements. Firstly, to increase funding for families with children, to address specific needs such as families with children with special needs, single parents, student families with multiple children and similar, to equalize opportunities for both parents, to transfer decision-making powers from social work centres to courts, to separate professional work from decision-making, to exercise children's rights, to establish an information system, to establish a council for children as a consultative body, etc., to prepare a strategy for the development of national policies towards children, to prevent domestic violence, to support non-governmental sector programmes in support of the family and beyond. In particular, let me point out some laws that represent an example even in the countries of the European Union. These are laws on parental protection of family benefits, the Marriage and Family Relations Act, etc., of which even in the opposition’s national assembly there was agreement and support or support for these two laws. Let me briefly say that, of course, we also need to look forward. The government is therefore also actively preparing a national development programme to improve the situation of children in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be the first document to fill the gap in the integration of the child, youth and family as a whole after the adoption of the resolution on the basis of family policy-making and is at the same time in inter-resoring. This is, of course, a very complex document, about which there will, of course, be a lot of talk in both professional and other circles. Furthermore, given the time available to me, of course I would say something about social protection policy. The key objectives achieved by the Government during the period 2000-2004 in the field of the implementation of social security services and programmes were to improve, access and free choice of services and to pluralise the network of service providers, which is, of course, also defined in the national programme by 2005. Of course, we can say that the needs are still greater than the offer, and it will continue for some time. With the development of society and, of course, with the modernisation of society, there will also be a need for some new services and that the demand for services that were not required in the past is therefore very important that Slovenian society also pursues the development of different social protection services. The Network of Services, we can say that it has evolved according to the National Social Protection Programme, and if you allow me, I can give some figures that represent only an illustration of what has been done in this area. For the first time, during the period 2000 to 2004, when we are talking about new homes for older citizens, 21 new homes were built on the side of the country or concession. Of course, there has not been such a rapid expansion of the network at home in the past. I can say that in this mandate, as regards the proportion of the older population over 65 years of age, we have actually approached, even exceeded the average of the European Union countries, and thus the capacity in the homes of older citizens is now more than 4.5% of the population, or even 4.8%, which represents the highest level of coverage of needs. Let me also say that, when we are talking about social security services, it is also very important to involve the non-governmental sector. It seems to me that, of course, the state cannot do everything that is necessary in the area of social protection, so the non-governmental sector must also be included. I must say that here, too, there is a very planned and systematic policy where the government, from the financing of one-year, three-year-olds, also funding multiannual ones, is also said to be five-year programmes that enable stable financing and development of the non-governmental sector in the area of social protection. Thus, we already have almost 60 such multi-annual programmes funded by the State and implemented by the operators on the basis of the Multiannual Financing Decision. Let me say that it is also possible in this case to develop these programmes with a so-called more modern approach, which many NGOs are working on in this area. Many of these NGOs represent, for example, Hospic, one of the social protection innovations that has not been covered in the past by the social protection programme, and we do, of course, have it at this time. Furthermore, the interpolation refers to the indirect issue of social inclusion and poverty reduction. The Prime Minister has already said that the social inclusion policy has been one of the priority policies since 2000, the right social inclusion policy being one of the priority policies. Here we have a whole series of programmes, this is from a programme to combat poverty to a memorandum, as well as a national action plan on social inclusion for the period 2004/2006. This seems important to me because it is also important to say in this area that the creation of an appropriate social network of social protection systems is somehow an evolving relationship. It is impossible to solve all social issues of poverty and so forth overnight. This requires a long-term targeted policy, an effective policy. I believe that we have taken at least a few steps in this direction in this government. It is hard to say that we have done everything we want or should, but it seems to me that we have done a great deal. I think it is particularly important to say that the enhanced integration of social inclusion policy is particularly important to emphasise its direct link with EU-level social inclusion policy when Slovenia joins the EU. Because of the expectations of some of our citizens that there will be no change in this area, I think it is necessary to say at this point that they are superfluous. We have social policies or social protection systems in full compliance with the directives and other elements of EU social policy. It is important to agree, of course, that this will be the case and that we will be able to talk about appropriate and effective social policies in the future. As regards certain references to monetary social assistance, I should say that there have been significant changes in the area of monetary social assistance as a result of the amendment of the Social Protection Act in 2001. Monetary social assistance has compensated for the previous right to a monetary allowance. With the implementation of the Social Protection Act and in accordance with the amendments mentioned above, the price for obtaining monetary social assistance and the amount of monetary social assistance have increased significantly. Thus, for example, the adult price increased by 64%, as well as the censorship for different types of families increased depending on the social risks of individual families. As a result, the final number of recipients, or as the price for granting state social assistance has gradually increased, has gradually increased the number of recipients of monetary social assistance and the final number of recipients is in line with the expected forecasts given in the explanatory memorandum of the Social Protection Act in 2001. It could therefore be said that these facts show that the increase in the number of recipients does not constitute a higher level of risk of poverty, but also means that more people could benefit from the more favourable prices, and that this is higher than before. Let us ask, however, the question of this statistics on the level of risk of poverty in a comparison with the EU, considering that statistics are not everything, but only as an illustration to say that the level of threshold or risk of poverty in Slovenia is lower than in the European Union, even lower than in the 15th European Union, and that it is more effective, as some of the studies we have carried out for the purposes of preparing the budget in 2003 also show us. What I think is particularly important to say is that the fight against poverty, the fight to increase the involvement of individuals, is a permanent goal and must remain such a permanent goal. I hope that future governments will also aim to reduce the risk of poverty, but not just to remain on some inconclusive or general level, but to say that the number of people living below the poverty risk line has been reduced by more than a few years. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] A thousand. [[...]] President, does that mean I have to finish? Let me have one more sentence. I have tried in this brief presentation of individual elements, i.e. the real trends in the labour market of family policy, the social security system to show some of the elements that the government has drawn up and implemented during this period. We do not deny the problems facing Slovenian society in the labour market, social security, family policy, but in life it is better to do one or two steps ahead of time than to wait for what it will bring tomorrow. I think that we have been proactive in this respect and that we have, in some way, reduced the pressures and concerns where we as a government can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Thank you, Minister Dimovski. We have thus concluded our explanation of the Government's written reply. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall be held. The meeting shall be chaired by a colleague, Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Good-bye, everyone. I give the floor to Mrs Maria Possonec, who will present her position on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Mrs. Maria, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. My opinion on the interpretation that is ahead of us is very brief. I personally do not support interpretation, and I do not think it is necessary, nor does it make sense, but it is intended only for a campaign on the taxpayer's account. Interpellation for special purposes serves to improve the existing situation, and this does not serve this, because even if it had succeeded just before the elections, it would not have any effect. Besides, I don't think it's justified. Mr Rob's government is working effectively, in sync and in the interest of citizens. As an example of this, I would like to mention the work of Mrs Andreja Richter, Minister for Culture, for which cultural life in the village is as important as cultural life in large cities. The school minister, Dr. Slavko Gaber, also takes care of schools in small peripheral areas as well as schools in large centres, although the mayors there are not LDS types. For example, Hodosh and the Domanites. Even the Defence Minister, Dr Anton Grizold, brought the Slovenian army without scandals, without politics, only with professional work to NATO. Dr. Gantar was one of the first e-mails to open in Dobrovnik. And I could count it. The voters saw us in four years, heard and monitored our work. They were told everything, and there's almost nothing left to add. For four years we have shown them that we are the most humane, the most cultural, the most effective, so let everything. Now the scissors and the canvas are in their hands, the cards will be shared by them, and we should have the dignity to allow them, just before the elections, to think in peace, who they will elect as Members in the next term of the National Assembly. This is their democratic right, whether we like it or not, but we must respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, Ministers, Minister and all the others who are listening to today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Allow me to say that today, formally, we do not have a decision to vote in favour or against interpretation, that there will be no misunderstanding. Interpellation means that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members has asked a question and the Government has answered it. And interpretation means this debate here today, which is why we are here today. Interpellation and the Government's responses to the interpolation materially mean the calculation of the work carried out after a four-year period. This period has been successful in some areas, especially when it comes to achieving two key foreign policy objectives, namely the entry of Slovenia into NATO and the European Union. It is two projects that have been supported from the very beginning by almost all parliamentary parties and would now be unjustifiable to be attributed only to the government. Of course, it is important to stress that the government, the current and previous ones have been well-managed and coordinated by these two projects. When we talk about Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I would like to highlight an area that is very important in terms of the financial parts it represents, namely agriculture and rural areas. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. In the previous mandate and part of the current government's mandate, Franci Booth, while the Minister, as a Slovenian negotiator, was decisively instrumental in completing this part of the negotiations. Among other things, the results of the negotiations are that around EUR 250 million from the European rural and agricultural development funds from 2004 to 2006 has been negotiated and has provided, in line with the strict European standards, the agricultural, forestry and food resources sector, the institutions necessary for the distribution of financial resources, thus allowing direct payments to the surface and to the animals, i.e. subsidies, the drawing-up of funds from European funds, compensatory payments in areas with more difficult processing conditions, payments in the field of environmental measures, as well as smooth export-importing activities of food-processing companies and individuals. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are proud of this contribution, both in European negotiations and within the Slovenian Government and Parliament, when it comes to the issue of efforts for the interests of Slovenian farmers, agriculture and rural areas. It also recognises the growing number of independent experts that without such consistent support at least one political party at the time and from Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenian farmers and rurals would have a much worse starting point and a more difficult position than they now have. In this place, I would also like to say that the transport sector, which is essentially a resource, which in fact always continues the work of its predecessors, in addition to the successful continuation of the highway cross project, has consistently insisted on the programme of reconstruction and reconstruction of local roads in cooperation with municipalities and, in particular, other state roads. I would also like to mention that the Justice Department has become very involved when it has provided free legal aid under the legislation. Before touching certain areas in which we feel that the government has acted in the wrong direction or that it has failed to implement the ambitions it has set out in the beginning, let me be very specific. Many people have called me in these days and were expecting people from Slovenia, especially those affected by hailstones or other natural conditions this year, to react exactly the same as in the Soča earthquake with the help of the government. Together we have found that the current earthquake recovery law was somewhat disabled in some articles and that we fixed it very quickly just before the parliamentary holidays. We have expected, and we have also written to the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly that for this extraordinary meeting, the Government will already prepare some necessary amendments to the current law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. The government has not done so, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party have put the law into the procedure following a reduced procedure; we will also collect the 23 signatures needed and expect to consider this law in the National Assembly in the coming days. True, the government came with a regulation, but we firmly believe that the regulation is too small. Too long a process of calculating the aid simply comes too late and people get new grips before they get aid from the previous catch. I would therefore like to mention four areas. The first area is centralization. In this government's mandate, the trend of universal centralisation has continued. We have occasionally witnessed more statements than the government's actions towards decentralisation. But the government has brought the decentralisation of decision-making and financing in the vast majority of areas to a very extreme extent. In our view, it is evident that funding for municipal projects through municipalities is better developed; this also makes better use of those managed centrally from Ljubljana through the state budget. Many times we cannot escape the impression that the congregation’s government, especially the smaller congregations, is considered an urgent evil, but not as development partners, that there is a great lack of confidence in the capacity of the congregations to run their development projects. We are not prepared for any increase in the jurisdiction of the congregations, and in some areas this would be necessary. A number of congregations use even property to apply for various invitations, without any guarantee that even if they do meet the conditions, they will also be able to obtain funds. I could mention an example of calls from cohesion funds. Or is it because the funds are too small or because sometimes there is subjective judgment? We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that there is a need to substantially increase funds for municipalities or municipal projects. In our view, there is certainly more than 25% in terms of the current situation. On the other hand, we see no reason that almost all state institutions from all three branches of government and their headquarters of state and parastatal companies are almost exclusively in Ljubljana. This is also to the detriment of the development of other Slovenian regions, sometimes also the burden of Ljubljana. The immediate consequence of complete centralisation is the preservation and even increase of differences in the development of Slovenian regions, and also the resulting sense of perspectivelessness in many less developed and demographically threatened areas. There's been a lot of talk about statistics today, and let me just use it for a little while here. The differences in GDP per capita by purchasing power are simply too great. For example, the pomur region shows an EU25 index of 53, which is 100. In the meantime, in the central Slovenian region, which exceeds the average of Slovenia, this index is 77. What does that mean? That this index, which points to one of the important expressions of the material state of people, simply says that the material basis of people for their lives in various Slovenian regions is very different. Here in its response to a lot of numbers, the government has justified the same opportunities for development in various Slovenian regions, but unfortunately, let's say the government has failed here. She didn't make it in this area. The abnormally high price of property in the state capital, or, for example, the abnormally low price of property in Goričkem, is an additional indicator of where we have been brought by the current policy in this area. Another area. I would point out the failure of the current government, the lost battle with corruption and clintelism. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It was at the time of this government that corruption and clientism gained such dimensions that a large part of the Slovenian public first perceived this as a major problem that not only threatens development prospects but also threatens the development of democracy and the rule of law of this country. The lead party was likely not able to face this problem seriously either because of the fear that the largest proportion of the anomalies would be forced to be identified in their own species. As the third area where the government has not been successful in our opinion, it is the resolution of border issues with Croatia, with an emphasis on border resolution in Slovenia and at sea. Although Slovenia has more than enough historical, formal and other arguments to take the initiative in resolving these open issues, it has only satisfied itself with unconvincing responses to the deliberate Croatian provocations. Sometimes we get the impression that someone under the table has already arranged something and that's why they can't call things with a clear and frank word. While government representatives do not say, not only Croatian, but also the European public clearly and unequivocally, at the time of the signing of the Oscillary Agreements in 1975, the Slovenian police monitored the entire Bay of Piran, all the way to point 5, which is south of Savudrija. Why does Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union and as a state giving consent to the accession of the new countries, inter alia, our neighbouring country of Croatia does not open this issue to the bodies of the European Union? Why does the government not come to Parliament if it does not itself feel competent enough to make a request to open up a hearing within the framework of the European Union institutions of the statements of Croatian President Mesic, who in a sophisticated way, with the view that the border is already fully established on land, and where the Croatian side imagines it, is also trying to prejudge the border at sea? If we agreed to the Croatian President's thesis on the land border, this would mean that we have lost an important part of the Bay of Piran and also open access to the open sea. It's the fourth area. Slovenia has apparently failed to cope with very worrying demographic trends. Ministers and the Prime Minister have already talked about this today. It seems to us in the Slovenian People's Party that some in the government ranks have already thrown a rifle into the corn with this very big problem. Because, occasionally, we hear proposals on the necessity of greater labour immigration as a response to demographic problems. In this way, at least theoretically, the problem of labour shortages may be solved. This certainly is not the answer to how to stop the extinction of the people. Current trends, if we continued, would indicate that we are Slovenians on our way to extinction. We may not be able to avoid this, but we are confident that we will find ways to deal with these trends. But first we must do everything in our power. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are proud of our contribution to the substantial increase in children's allowances for numerical families. And that's a step in the right direction. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister, who is currently not in the premises of our plenary session, has today mentioned the Government's strong commitment to increasing child allowances. It was the previous mandate, i.e. the 1996-2000 mandate, I recall the solid negotiations, the firm, persistent negotiations between the Slovenian People's Party and the LDS. LDS, at the time, was the Minister for this area, Master Rob, first of all, did not support the increase in child support. But in our perseverance, we convinced them. And then together we decided to increase the child's supplements. Today, the Prime Minister also mentioned and praised the state pension. He himself will remember best when he led the negotiations on pension reform, how many hours needed and convinced, especially Professor Berta Jerebova, that we have incorporated a state pension into this concept. And now we have it. We've got her now. June 2004 receives 16446 citizens. Among some of the necessary spending steps for the Slovenian country's accession to worrying demographic trends, we certainly also see that a certain amount, which is higher, in our opinion about 15,000 tolars, is also earmarked for children who do not attend kindergartens and their protection also takes time and costs. The overall improvement in quality of life in urban centres as well as in rural areas would certainly help to improve demographic trends. Perhaps even in a rural area where more young people choose to be more numerous families. We also estimate that young couples who already have a child or are expecting their first child, but have a completely unresolved housing issue, should be given the opportunity to so-called first apartment. It is a temporary free apartment of minimum standards of size. This is a solution practiced by some countries. In particular, this is a well-known case in Japan. When we talk about the number of families, you are the most affected by the declared free primary education. In this area, there is no doubt that there is a great opportunity in the coming mandate for some of the current solutions to be improved. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not support black and white perception of things. As I mentioned at the outset, there have been many positive developments in this mandate. Parliament, however, is a real place where we can speak openly about the good and bad aspects of government action. However, it is time for us to talk about these issues before the Slovenian public and on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of what has been done so far, to come before the people with plans for the future. And now for the conclusion. I've been talking so far about programs, about solutions, about political decisions. And now there is another part that belongs to this place as the president of the party and as the leader of the parliamentary group. But it's a topic that indirectly touches the interpolation and answers to it. How does the government work, what is the style of leadership, what is the model of functioning, or is there a partnership? How does the government coalition work? What is the inner dynamic, how is it watered? Is it a partnership or a dominance? This cannot be the content of interpolation, but it is a fundamental political culture, or you allow government partners to build and contribute to the best they have, a joint government project. The Slovenian People's Party has been active on the Slovenian political scene for 16 years with its predecessors, but we have more than a century of tradition that we are proud of. That is why this place is fully responsible for the following conclusion: the current government coalition was not our programming and political home, we did not feel at home in it, but with all the energy we had, with knowledge and experience, as a party that was already a government party in the past, as a party with many mayors in Slovenia, we participated in this government coalition. And then it broke. It's broken with the program, with principles, with values. It was said that in some areas we were too consistent. It was a matter of deleted. And it was decided that, for principled reasons, we were no longer members of the coalition treaty. We've been trying in this government, trying to seal it in the middle. Everything we've done good will be rewarded by the electorate in the elections that will soon be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, let's be clear to everyone at the outset, we're talking about what the government should and could do, but it didn't. You should do what she promised; that is what business ethics require. But if someone promises what's impossible, it's unethical at all. It should also do what the legislative branch of authorities, in laws, stop, national programmes adopted in the National Assembly and so on. Well, the ransom of the promises made is very poor and should be ashamed of the government. It is even sadder to see the government's ignorant attitude towards the requirements of the Constitution and the laws. The last case, which is now somehow at the forefront of the public, is equalisation schemes as the most important guarantee of the safety of voluntary health insurance insurers. The Insurance Act already stated in 2000 that detailed arrangements for the implementation of compensatory schemes are regulated in a specific law. This July, at an extraordinary meeting devoted only to this purpose, the National Assembly Health Committee ordered the Government to send a draft law on compensatory schemes into the procedure for adoption in the National Assembly. But Mr Minister is five days later in the Echoes to the question "how will you ensure that the Equalisation Schemes Act will be passed in this mandate?" he replied, "Well, we have not made these promises, and I think that this law is unnecessary myself." So the relationship of the executive branch of power to the legislature: You say what you want, you prescribe what you want, we consider it unnecessary. We didn't make that promise. It's not just a promise, it's what the law says. This is the basis of the rule of law. According to some media information, there is now a draft of this law in some professional circles - of course, it is not yet in the National Assembly - but experts believe that this is an incredible matter, namely, that all supervision and all important decision-making should be made in the hands of the Minister of Health and not the supervisory financial institutions which are legally responsible for insurance and insurance. The same experts say that it is likely to be a diversion, with the aim that the compensatory schemes will not be adopted for a long time. This event reminds us of a few years ago, so to speak, the deliberately established marriage gap that we experienced when we adopted the Banking Act, an extended period of years ago in which food and credit services were able to operate without the insurance of their savings deposits, and thus the savers did so in their own way. And, of course, they happened: Kranin's food-credit service, Sicura, Soča. The savings money's gone, we don't know where, the savers are left empty-handed. As the safety of buyers, savers and borrowers is ensured, the examples of Orion, the Zbiljski grove, are also clear so that I will not be listed. The Consumer Credit Act, which was adopted after Orion's affair this spring, still allows for disqualification, as experts warn. So much for what the government should do, for the safety of its citizens, it has not done. Citizens are still not protected. However, protection of corruption, clientism and the place of the state remains very careful, reading the taxpayer's property. Half the sales of state property are still under way, under the table, when no one knows who and at what cost they are sold. The government is in a bitter hurry to resume its personnel. Most of the heads of state offices, agencies and other public services, out of a total of 68, have already been appointed for the entire next term. For example, the government replaced four members of the State Audit Commission, whose mandate would not expire until the end of this year. She also re-appointed her deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, whose term of office would expire only in mid-January next year. Or the appointment of a deputy to the Court of Auditors, although until now the mandate would have expired only at the beginning of December this year. What's the rush? We cannot agree with such unethical personnel. In particular, if it takes place as well as in health care, where the Minister of Customer Cleansing is the management of Slovenian hospitals in principle: first the discreditation, then the liquidation. Examples of health insurance institutions, hospitals in Jesenica, Oncology Institute, Clinical Center are known. Let him mention only the last case of the Psychiatric Clinic, where at the time of the call the Director was first discredited by the publication of a dream high salary in March last year, although the Minister knew well that the Director had one of the lowest salaries among Slovenian directors among the directors of Slovenian hospitals. It was at the expense of a one-year award, just as it was received by the former director, who is now appointed by Minister Keber or the Board of the Institute, in which most members are appointed by the Ministry. As Minister Keber says, the government is proud of this development. Minister Marble is very bad because we are so stupid that we ask the government why it did not achieve the projected economic growth when it is obvious what a boom Slovenia is experiencing. The Minister of Justice even publicly claims that everything they have planned has been done. Please pay attention to this statement by the Minister of Justice - everything they have planned has been done - and even more, she added. Because the situation was completely different from their promises, they evidently planned something else than they promised. There is something else that the Constitution and the laws require of them. Apparently, as in party times, there is still a secret official letter, a secret program that I believe has been successfully implemented. Obviously, this programme also includes a successful theft of state property, such as taxpayer property and clientistic customer management of all important positions in society: sport, economy, education, finance, health care and so on. However, the fact that they had achieved everything they had planned, as the Minister argued, was the result of three very important findings. First time. The promises made by this political option are unrealistic. That's the first conclusion. There's another secret plan, a program. One election campaign program and another work program. Another time. The requirements of the legislative branch of government are not important, and they are only enforced when the public is really under pressure. Third time. The situation in which Slovenia is located, but not only do I speak of wages, working conditions, pensions, the state of education and the like, in health care, waiting periods, but the situation in which Slovenia is located, I am thinking mainly of the rise in corruption, clientism and places, but to the illegal state of unprotected citizens, is obviously well planned. And this ruling political option is fully responsible for this situation. That's what's important. Finally, once we came to a state where the situation in the country is equal to that of government parties, with the government. For once, the government is responsible for the situation, the one who truly draws the fate of this land. In this interpretation, we are talking about what the government has promised, what it has been obliged to do and could have done, and it has not done. Instead of explaining why she did not do so, the government speaks long and wide about what she has done good for this land. Even in response to the interpolation, Minister Keber made it clear: "I will answer the interpolation with success." It's like getting hit on the walkway, then running away, and the judge would ask you why you did it. You would say, "Look how good I am to my neighbors. In the winter I have thrown away their snow, how good I am to my wife, how good I am at my work." No, Mr. Prosecutor, why did you run away? Why did you run over a pedestrian and run away? Look what I do for the nation, what I do for it, and what I do for it. No, we're wondering why the government didn't do what it had to do, but it didn't. That's the question of interpolation. So the question is, not what good you did for the neighbor, for example, for the selected capital lobby, but why you ran over a small citizen, left him unprotected there, and then escaped from the crime scene and left him to the mercy and mercy of some Sicilian network based on corruption and clienteleism. That's a question we'd like to answer. This is a key issue of this country, a key issue for further development.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will introduce us to the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Dear government officials! Mr President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Interpreters also tried today to make excuses and prove that they had the right to interpellate in August and September before the end of their term of office. There is certainly no doubt about that. They have that right. The question is that there is also a logic to political action in addition to the formal content. And we all know that citizens and citizens also know that interpellation is intended to deal with the government's responsibility against it, and possibly also with certain consensualities, or to adopt a decision or possibly even, if the necessary majority is gathered, to form a new government. We probably all know that neither in early September nor in late August makes any sense, because a good month before the elections, an assessment of the responsibility of the government, especially the possible change of government, takes place in elections. And that is all we wanted to say and stress today: formally no objection, substantively and politically pure nonsense, with the desire and expectation that what has been said for four years at each meeting, on questions sent, on interpretations, on marriage proposals, on the occasion of the annual account that the government has given in its report every year before the budget and so on, to discuss and to wish to conclude this once more. We have a chance today. We in the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats do not run away from such an assessment and such behaviour in any way. We are confident, however, that accurate information and objective assessments will not give such a meeting to citizens and citizens. If, however, you think that the colleagues and colleagues who have put up with the interpretation, that flat-rate assessments of nihilism, that criticism of everything, even though you then put yourself in public, say, "No, no, because there is a lot of good done, we are only talking about what is not good," if this is good for you, we will see. Secondly, you considered that the basis for interpolation was a coalition contract. Nothing wrong. Although, technically, you missed out on this one, too. The coalition treaty was not the promise of government parties to the electorate and the electorate, but was a mutual commitment that was accepted by government parties when they proposed a mandate holder and later formed a government. And the fact that the coalition treaty was concluded and signed a month after the elections was held, is probably a date for this, that I am not talking about another. You know, you are many times, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, when one of the government parties spoke about what binds us or not, what we must or should not do under the coalition treaty, you said about this speaker, "we don't care about the coalition treaty, it's the relationship between you." And you were right. This is the relationship between us government coalition parties. But this should also apply when assessing work. The simplest thing was, according to you, a coalition contract was taken. Whether you spoke the truth or not from a coalition treaty in interpretation is another question. I would like to tell you that I myself have been reviewing the implementation of the coalition treaty. With regard to the material results that have been programmed as a goal, you cannot get better answers than the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers. However, everyone knows that when he or she plans to do something, he or she plans, depending on the circumstances that he/she plans, but many times he/she does not depend on it. But no doubt and it has been proved that positive effects have been achieved under the given circumstances under all material indicators and that Slovenia has progressed. None of us, however, feel that it would not be better to make further progress in ideal circumstances. Certainly, but there is no evidence, and so far you have not given it that these and these concrete actions are the ones that have blamed Slovenia for not having a better impact. You're talking about the legislation we talked about. Indeed, this coalition, at the time of accepting the obligation to form a government, wrote down its definition of up to 202 laws, which were still in the legislative procedure at the time. Let us first ask ourselves how effective we have been in the past mandate if 202 laws remain in the legislative procedure, but let us not. And that's where we wrote which laws we're going to adopt as a coalition, which we're going to change, which we're going to reject. Take a look! The same law is obviously the one we failed with: it is a law on the provinces. We rejected all other things, as we said, whether we accepted in the direction, as we said. With regard to the text of the Coalition Treaty in each area, there are also legal guidelines in each area, not entirely, but many of them. Of the legal guidelines that we have cited there, we have not really put into effect the issue of the electoral system. Here he carries his share of the guilt of the coalition, but, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is nothing less. Here we have identified all the parties in Parliament that Members and Members will vote in their own conviction, but not in the party's suggestions, and there were no two-thirds majority. We promised to change the referendum law; because of you in the opposition we could not change it and partly because of the People's Party, which was still in the coalition. Indeed, we did not accept the property tax — damage, wrong; it would be better if it were. However, we have started with a complete recording activity in order to get to the real foundations, so that the tax can be introduced, not in thought, but with the effects we want. These effects cannot be the burden of those who for decades worked hard and built a house or bought an apartment in the way that the then Demos and Jasbinšek offered with their own law, which was certainly not the best, although it was very convenient for individuals. And that remains our obligation. We have also not been able to fully implement health reforms, even though many of our starting points have been designed in such a way that there is no doubt that we can do so very soon in the future. Therefore, the claims that the coalition contract is in most cases unfulfilled, or in more than half of the things that are unfulfilled, simply do not correspond to the truth and it would be more concrete to say these things. Thirdly, what I would like to say is my recognition on behalf of the parliamentary group, and in the time before the elections, I can also say thanks to the ministers and ministers of the government and to this government for the extensive, concrete, evidenceable material that said what was done in the four years of the ruling of this coalition. I suppose we wouldn't have enough to prepare for the election of such collected data and material if you didn't ask the government to do so. And you have demanded, we have worked hard, and now we have, and it will be much easier for us to tell us in a direct election campaign what has been done in a particular area, than it would have been for us to look for this data ourselves. In this part, your interpretation certainly has benefited us, and only now that I have read as much as 350 pages of the government's material, in fact I see how much good guidance and concrete results have actually been in this government, and I am not ashamed or sorry that I have been in this government coalition, that I have contributed, as one of the Members and leader of the Group of Members, and that the Minister and two Ministers of the United List of Social Democrats have also contributed to this. I am convinced that many successes can also be the result of joint action in the National Assembly, I do not exclude or argue that the opposition did not have a stake in this. It's too bad, and I don't think it's wise for him to run away from this portion. I must say, it is not particularly wise for me to say that from this role and cooperation, because of what has happened, the Slovenian People's Party, which is a coalition, as I have heard today, has considered its participation in the coalition in some way not to be its own, but was uncomfortable in it. I'm not going to comment any more. I have to say, I've been surprised by such a statement. I would like to point out that we are proud, not only that we have reached entry into the European Union and NATO, but not only that we have been able to legally adapt all our legislation, not only that we have been economically successful in these circumstances and that we have made progress in all areas. I am particularly proud, as a representative of the Social Democratic Party in this House, that we have remained in such circumstances with full awareness that we must also be a social state, that we must ensure the broadest possible involvement of all citizens and citizens, that we have successfully developed a social partnership in all areas, that we are aware that the quality of work and life, including the conditions of culture, is an integral part of economic policy, with greater concern for knowledge and the environment. When things are said about what people think or not, let me say from some official surveys of the Slovenian public opinion what they said on the question: Would you choose Slovenia as the country you would like to live in? 65.1% replied that confidently yes and 25.3% probably did. If Slovenia were to be as you describe it to ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I doubt that would be the answer. Second, how they evaluated their material circumstances in which they lived. In recent years, from 1999 to 2003, 15% claim to be satisfied with their material situation, as before, somewhere in between, between bad and good, and 43.6%, while dissatisfaction dropped from 22% to 10%. I'm not saying that these are objective results. They show how people feel about the situation and progress in Slovenia. And it is probably the right thing to do when we think about what we are doing. And last but not least, since it has been mentioned, I think, it is indeed incorrect to mention that in this year people's belief that corruption has reached all times of social life and that we do not control it - that is not true either. Certainly it is imperative that Slovenia finally organise itself to start in an organised manner, like other countries, to solve corruption problems. And we're glad that with your help we've done something about it, we've adopted a law. I hope that we will be in the rules of procedure today and that we will become operational. But people's perception of the problems of corruption has virtually not changed in the last four years, not to say it's favourable, but it's practically not changed. And don't talk about it, or you can talk about it, just don't tell the truth when you explain that people finally realized this year, maybe in the last month or in the last half of the year, that corruption is such a problem that it wasn't at all. They're worried about corruption all the time. All the time. It's understandable they're worried. It is right to do everything we can to make it as small as possible in Slovenia. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are aware that there are still tasks that we have not sufficiently achieved at the time of our stated orientations. That is why we also believe that Slovenia must ensure the future for all citizens and citizens. We are confident that we would be able and ready to continue working in this direction. As we know that this interpretation has been given due to pre-election time, let us say that voters and voters will also be given confidence on the basis of this interpretation, concrete data, results and performances. Or that government team that worked so far, or that government team that shows that it's going to be clear, those customers that created Demos in 1990. If we do not have experience in 1990/1992, we have experience in the last half year of the previous term. This should also be the criteria on which to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented to us by mag. Marco Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the theory of public relations, the use of marketing concepts in the field of social activities and, in particular, the state as an institution is controversial. That's a very nice word. So politics is undoubtedly part of the country. In fact, whether we want to admit it or not, it is one of its fundamental parts, expressed through various institutions and constitutional institutions. What's the issue? Today's parliamentary session is undoubtedly more about selling your ideas and advertising yourself before the elections than the business interpolation institute for its purpose. I'll get back to that. So replacing citizens with the buyers we are witnessing today can only be a pre-election trade. If we are very black-eyed, there can be many more indications that we are doing our best to keep the elections as low as possible, as many citizens and citizens of these endless, multi-monthly debates are full of suitcases. Did we need this? Even officials, officials, and legislators are often forced to decide on matters that we know little about because there is a so-called asymmetry of information. Therefore, they are particularly vulnerable to proper assistance in presenting the problem. I'm stressing "correct". What is being done today in the hall can only be described as right by much good will and by looking through your fingers. We are discussing and discussing interpolation, which is only formally named. It's not content. We are considering the response of a government that has only formally named it. It's not content. So what are we doing? We are caught in a game that has been allowed and cooked by unfinished business institutions and a lack of political culture and pre-election time. That is why we will tell each other and the citizens, especially the viewers in front of TV screens, what we think of each other and what we want the public to think about us, the voters, because this session is intended exclusively for them. But their final decision will be in a good month. Before I take up some of the contents of the so-called interpolation and the so-called response to it, I will remind you, my fellow Members, of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure tabled a day ago, which should be considered seriously and adopted within the next term of office. I am talking about the provision, unfortunately for the time being, of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which should prevent in the future the teaching of others in the style of writing student seminars and legitimacy through driving licences and similar sympathetic wits. We should also prevent the needs and questionable political initiatives. For example, this so-called interpolation, which is all too desirable to interpret as conjugation. Maybe they're right. Of course, each of the following accounts and today these governments are a good thing. In combination with the initial so-called hearings of ministers, they will also receive a complete whole, which will also be based in the long term on the approximate reality of the promised one. With the proposed solution to convene a meeting of the National Assembly 45 days before the day set for the general election to the National Assembly, a report on the government's work during the term of office would be possible to discuss all political factors. Therefore, it would not be necessary to refer to extraordinary meetings or to intervene at the interpolation institute, which is intended for other purposes in its content and consequences. The debate on the Government's work report during the term of office should be held no later than 30 days before the date set for the elections. This means that state institutions would not be directly involved in the electoral campaign. This interpolation is mainly a low political culture and, above all, an incomprehensible and unwise move by ministers to allow all to boast in turn of what they have done so far and what they will achieve, above all, that the entire state apparatus is now running a pre-election campaign of the ruling coalition instead of working for the state and its citizens. Interpellation is not formally disputed. But it was filed incompletely. There was no decision, no signatures for the emergency meeting. There is no proposed new Prime Minister as required by Article 2(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This indicates the seriousness of the interpellation. In addition, interpellation is also incomplete, because there is a large topic missing, the peak of the government's work. It's foreign policy. Of course, we can ask ourselves why the proposalers let her go. Do they think that the foreign policy that another minister has recently led has been so flawless, perfect and in Slovenia's best interests that it is not possible to report the slightest error, even though critics of the government's work have found faults in all other ministries? What about the so-called Vile Declaration and still unresolved matters with Croatia? Otherwise, we have to admit it. Some of the indications in the interpolation are held. Also, showing the idyllic state in Slovenia is not the most realistic. With the new elections, I'm sure it's time for a real state-of-the-art review. However, certain effects of this government will not be seen for a while. Not all will likely be positive, but not all will be negative. I will continue to try to show constructively some of the critical points of our further development, as we see in the Young Slovenia Party. In our view, three areas should be mentioned first. The first area or indicator is the debt of a wider defined country, which looks very solid compared to GDP. A more detailed analysis suggests a dangerous trend. That's right. There are countries with a much higher debt in Europe. It should be stressed, however, that these countries have accumulated it over the decades. And we've earned a third, that's 500 billion, in a good four-year period, indicating the need for certain reforms. Debt alone would not be problematic if we were only responsible for long-term development projects. However, we believe that it is also largely a task for current consumption. We are particularly missing this information in the government's report. In fact, if we want to know the actual pressure in the area of generations that will repay this debt. It will probably not be possible to go to an institution that is formally separated from the country and say and forgive our debts. The next thing to be mentioned is the growth of gross social product and thus the cost structure of GDP, which is not mentioned in the interpretation nor in the report. However, it shows the development of GDP and, above all, a worrying trend. Various speakers on such and different economic growth and impacts on it can be very demagogic. Why? It is clear that Slovenia, as a small open economy, is highly dependent on the economic growth of partner countries, which was also one of the main reasons for joining the EU. The recession in these countries has thus been transferred to us. The fact that we have more economic growth in Slovenia than most of the most developed countries of the European Union is logical, as we still have a lot of under-employed resources. For example, construction of highways, construction of apartments. Of course, it can be a debate whether the government has done this optimally. At least as far as housing is concerned, we are not sure because the implementation of the national housing programme is a brothel. It is also true that the shocks in the oil markets and the recession in the EU have had a significant impact on economic growth. Therefore, it is more interesting, at least in our opinion, to see the cost structure of GDP, which shows a fall in staff resources from 57.4% of GDP in 1995 to 53.3% of GDP in 2002 and an increase in gross business surplus from 19.6% of GDP to 23.6% of GDP in 2002. This shows who is most involved in GDP growth. This is also seen in the increase in social differences. The final impact of tax reform will soon be seen here. I would point out, however, that this is a trend from 1995 to 2002. However, the solution is likely in the law on the participation of workers in profit. Third, there are too many regional differences. The best indicator is that regional differences are not something that is significantly smaller is table two of the report, as the indices have grown slightly across from the European Union. However, if we compare the regions between each other or against the central Slovenian region, we see that the difference has increased. For example, the index of Savinja in 2000 is 67, the central Slovenian 104. In 2002, the central Slovenian region has 109 index and 68 Savinska region. Data on unemployment in the region are also worrying. Even more so is the educational structure of the unemployed, which shows the so-called brain drain to larger centres and thus the intellectual poverty of rural areas. With the local community fellowship funds that we have proposed in the 2001 budget, this trend could be partly halted and evolutionaryly put into place a new concept of scholarships to participate in private and public funds. Some local communities have implemented this concept without State funds, but they are too short for all demanders. In our opinion, the school ministry has succeeded in a number of things. However, it would be good for him to have more budget resources in the future, to solve quite a few problems, or to resolve some things differently. The salty free primary schools, together with the problems of troop division of pupils, overcrowding of students and heavy school purses, are just some of the most pressing problems of today's Slovenian primary schoolchildren and their parents. This year's elementary school awaits the final transition of all primary schools from eight-year-old to nine-year-old programmes. In doing so, schools that introduce a new programme need quality professional assistance and appropriate acceptance and evaluation. The first evaluation of a nine-year-old confirms the advantages of not uniformity, non-unity of teaching and group work. At the same time, the pressure generated by the letter to further education forces us to underestimate our own abilities and cause great tension, fear and anxiety. The burden is not just the problem of students, but teachers are also overburdened, as they can prepare material for three stages of the complexity of knowledge. In our view, there is a need to reduce the curriculum in primary schools as children are subjected to increasing and unnecessary stress. However, there is a need to increase the quality of learning programmes and to ensure that the transition between levels is as rapid as possible. Let me mention this. A number of basic schools still need infrastructure training. The local communities, especially if there are more of these schools, cannot afford this financial supply alone. There is too much rash in high school, given that this is also the most neglected generation. That the pressure of graduation and, in our opinion, we do not speak well enough of the diet of students and apprentices in the most sensitive years of life. There is also a possible solution to the law on the subsidisation of diaphragm. Although we recognize that the funds for this part and for this segment have also increased according to the rules. In our view, further efforts are still needed in the area of higher education. The government has undertaken the so-called reform of higher education after the Bologna process. Here, in our view, are still critical points namely, limiting the regular entry and extending the extraordinary pay-per-view, the absence of scholarship policy, the lack of student rooms and, consequently, the fantastic service of landlords to black, the risk of introducing tuitions, indeed, to the social [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This is just a few facts from the current state of higher education. [[..]] In particular, in these points it is necessary to find reserves to improve the situation. Most of all, and this is happening more and more or more for quite some time, is that after finishing your studies, you don’t get a job. A total of three quarters of graduates moved to the Employment Service after finishing their studies. They do not get a job to rent loans for housing, pay the contributions of ZPIZ and health insurance, pay taxes, pay off debts and save on purpose in order to train children. We recently set up a new, third university. However, the budgetary resources for the functioning of universities remain virtually the same. I therefore stress once again that the school ministry will need to spend much more money in the future. We are aware that the lack of funding facing colleges is great and that the gradual participation of students will be possible in the future. However, for any reform, including higher education, it is necessary to provide certain funds in advance, otherwise the reform cannot be implemented in a qualitative manner. Therefore, the implementation of the reform of higher education for a quick and full financial burden is, in our view, unacceptable. When the state raises the resources to improve the quality of the study by 15% when the state regulates the scholarship policy and the lending policy of students, when there are enough student beds for all students, when the participation of students in the decision-making process in colleges is greater, we will only be prepared to talk about the participation of students. It is therefore particularly important to note that system 3 plus 2 will bring about a reduction in study years. Now, on average, the student took less than seven years to complete his university course. In this way, students will first graduate or graduate, find jobs and generate income from the state, pay taxes and contributions. The key focus and impact of the proposed reform should be – and we think – to achieve the quality of the study or to increase the knowledge of graduates at all stages of the study. Given the far-reaching consequences of the reform of higher education, it would be inappropriate for us to adopt such a law as a matter of urgency. We also believe in the Party of Young Slovenia that Slovenia does not have a sufficiently organised scientific and research activity. The main focus is on the following areas: maintaining and developing a project of young researchers, followed by a planned employment policy and increasing the number of sub-doctor research projects, maintaining the research function of universities, supporting research institutes, access to further development of information systems that service research activities [[Arnes, Cobis, Siceris]] to increase the transparency of all evaluation and selection procedures, both within the Ministry and at the expert system level, to define research frameworks, which should also take into account the potentially negative impact on people and the environment, the autonomy of research institutions and researchers, the equal treatment of research institutions, whether private or public, and the equal treatment and financing of all fields of science. A special chapter is employment. Eurostat has not yet provided data for Slovenia for this June. In May, the unemployment rate in the country was 6.4% and among young people under 25 years of age was 15.4%. Unemployment among men was 5.9% this month and 6.9% among women. The unemployment rate in April this year was also 6.4% in the country, while last May it was 6.5% [[from Eurostat data]] The Minister of Labour said that the government has paid more attention to people with disabilities, with a trend that shows that job seekers and women are increasingly vulnerable. Even in 2003, Slovenia registered fewer than 100,000 registered unemployed persons for the second consecutive year at the end of the year. At the end of December, 95,993 unemployed persons were registered at the institution, which is 3.6% less than in December 2002. A comparison of the different categories of unemployed persons at the end of the year shows that only the number of first-time job seekers has increased. At the end of 2003, 24,460 or 12.2% were higher than at the end of 2002, and consequently young people up to 26 years of age were more than 25,860 or 2% more than in December 2002. If we look at the registered unemployment rate, it tells us that on average 9.7% of active men and 13% of active women were unemployed. According to the Employment Office, the structure of the unemployed has improved in 2003 and the proportion of women and search engines and young people has increased to 26 years. In recent years, the proportions of the younger age categories of the unemployed have increased. In 2003, both the proportions and the number of unemployed, under 26 years of age, grew in eight units. At the end of 2003, there were 25,860 and 2% more than the year before. Among the age classes in which the number of unemployed persons has increased, the unemployed between 25 and 30 years of age, with an increase of 7.8% at the end of 2003. A worse picture is shown by the category of first-time job seekers At the end of December 2003, 24,460 were reported at the institution, 12.2% more than in December 2002. The education structure of the unemployed improved in 2003. Unemployment rates have decreased with lower levels of education and higher levels of education have increased. At the end of December 2003, at individual educational levels, the most unemployed had the following education: university-graduate economist, graduate economist, university-graduate lawyer, graduate legal organizer, university-graduate architecture engineer, university-graduate engineering engineer, English professors, history, Slovenian, German, geography, art education, class instruction. Women's unemployment has increased in recent years. Restructuring in industrial industries, such as textile, leather and footwear, is the most affected mainly by women who represent the majority of employees in these activities. In 1999, more than half of the women were unemployed and in the coming years their share increased. In 2003 it was 52.8%. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] women had a majority share in the unemployed. [[...]] Due to bankruptcy and persistent surplus workers 55.1% among the unemployed after the end of employment 51% and among the first job seekers 50.2%. According to data on the application of pension and invalidity and health insurance carried out on the basis of pre-declared persons, declared needs for workers or trainees, 116,510 persons were employed in 2003. According to 2002, 5.3% more people were employed. Among those employed in 2003, there were 112,848 workers and only 3,682 trainees. Family policy. Members of the Young Slovenia Party have pointed out several times the fatherly attitude of the country towards problems of underbirth and family policy management, although we are aware of the difference. Slovenia still does not have a national programme on family policy, although it should have been adopted before the time. Many times we were able to hear representatives of the government, and not least even the Prime Minister himself answered the question of birth and said that the state is making huge amounts for children's allowances, allowances for large families, subsidies, children's nutrition and other social transfers. However, it is not only the country's subsidies to the most socially disadvantaged families that are important for greater fertility. It is important that the whole country strategy allowing young people to create conditions for themselves to take care of themselves and their families with their revenues. Thus, we have heard that the government does not support the formulation of family policy by means of tax and other reliefs, but through social transfers and subsidies. In the event that both parents are employed and receive relatively large incomes, they are not entitled to a child allowance or any subsidy. In kindergarten, they pay almost the full price, and they are often in a worse position than families with slightly poor financial revenues. In addition, young people need to take care of pension security and start saving for a safe age, solving housing problems. Thus, the biggest financial burden is on the shoulders of young, employed people. The country should not solve the problem of young families by increasing subsidies, but by burdening young people at the beginning of their working life. There's something else about defense. Slovenia has become a member of NATO and the EU this year. In addition, the reform of the country's defence system is under way, so-called professionalisation of the Slovenian military, which requires a lot of funding. In the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party, the purchase of weapons and other defence resources is of great importance. On the other hand, a transformation of the support elements of the system, which mainly includes the civil part of the Ministry, is allowed. It is essential to achieve greater transparency of professionalism and efficiency in this component of the national security system. In the Party of Young Slovenia we did not welcome Slovenia's accession to NATO for a simple reason, because the financial resources that we will have to make for this purpose will be very large in our opinion. The professionalization of the Slovenian army itself, in our opinion, has nothing to do with Nate as such, because we had to do this for demographic reasons in particular. Next thing. In recent times, we have expected that senior representatives of NATO will also say something about their problems at the border. But we didn't hear anything. But I believe we've got some membership card. I'm going to mention a few more things about housing policy. In all these years, the state has failed to draw clear, transparent and active housing policies that would leave behind doubts about the meaningful consumption of public funds. The area of housing policy, due to the high costs associated with them and at the same time to social sensitivity, requires particular care and care for the country, in particular in addressing the problem of socially weaker layers. During the period following the independence of Slovenia, you are dealing with housing shortages, both rentals and those for sale on the market. By the last year, the country and the municipalities had mostly only modestly participated in the construction of apartments, as they felt that the problem would solve the market and the housing savings scheme. This year, savings for the first savers in the national housing savings scheme have expired. What has proved to be what many experts have already pointed out in advance. Savings on loans are also not sufficient to buy an apartment, in fact for smaller repairs. The loans offered by banks under the National Housing Scheme are also much more expensive than the loans offered by commercial banks for residential purchases. Thus, by means of public funds and subsidies, we are now building apartments for the market and not for the disadvantaged social groups most in need of a roof over their heads. At the same time, the state has not done enough to remove bottlenecks in the promotion of new private investors' market housing. In Slovenia there are approximately 450,000 dwellings, which means about 350 dwellings per 1,000 inhabitants. This is strong for the average of Western European countries with 450 to 500 dwellings per 1,000 population. If we would just like to replace old long-term dwellings at 0.6% of the housing fund per year, this would mean that we have to build 4,000 new dwellings per year in Slovenia. However, taking into account the annual increase of 1.7%, which is comparable to Western European countries, we should build as many as 11,000 new dwellings annually, which in some ways includes a national housing programme. In order to achieve the objectives set, it would be necessary to adopt an appropriate national housing programme, which would serve as a basis for the active role of the State and its funds and local communities in the construction of new dwellings. Housing policy, by its very nature, is extremely long-term and does not produce rapid results. Therefore, one of the government's priorities should also be to direct market housing with incentives, subsidies and tax incentives. This is mainly the case with instruments that provide cheaper wall plots. These are municipal land equipment and possible direct subsidies provided that the investor follows the public interest. At the same time, the government should remove bottlenecks in administrative and other procedures and introduce more flexibility and improvements in the functioning of the relevant public services. We also believe that one possible solution would also be the real estate fund law. I've got more than one ready. But I think that's enough. I have focused mainly on this younger population, which will in fact also bear the burden of the coming years. The fact is, a long time ago, there was a housing right. That's not going to happen today. Instead of concluding, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, I will announce a new beginning. Last but not least, the new beginning is specifically expressed through each election to the National Assembly. The elections are also intended for this interpellation. A new start for the Young Slovenia Party means the continuation and upgrading of the programming policy of the past years. We are convinced that politics needs a share of youth. Our first objective was to set up a political party that already, by its name, refers to the purpose of opening a generation's policy that is most clearly alienated from it and thus we have undoubtedly succeeded. Young people, like all citizens, are politically fully competent as voters and as representatives. At the same time, the Youth Party is not defined solely as a party to a special generation interest group. The political values we represent are valued in the modern green policy of social democratic social control and the belief that opportunities are never limited. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to work on a policy that should not be led by contentions and reckonings, but by a vision of mutual cooperation in the welfare of the people of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Have a good day and thank you very much. It's hard to talk about interpolation when this interpolation is actually half. The two Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party, who should be interpelled, were replaced. The Minister of Economy, who is supposed to be intertwined, is heating up a chair in The Hague. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is no longer the right address. For the former minister, who made the main errors, now sits in the sent ones. So it's not the right address. The chief of the gentleman who drove all this cart, Mr Drnovska, is no longer here, but is in another position. However, mistakes in the governing structure and coalition are enough to spend 10, 15 hours just to touch them briefly. I'm not going to talk about other ministers' issues, I'm not going to talk about mistakes in the Ministry of Culture, where mistakes in the sky are lurking. I will turn to just one segment, to one ministry, to the Ministry of the Interior, where there is total dispersion, which of course is felt by citizens in the first place and, of course, by police officers in the field. It began immediately after the arrival of Minister Bohinc. Despite - if we are talking first about staffing and at the Office of the Wage System - the call without hiring government scholarships or scholarships from the Ministry of the Interior, lawyers or economists has been hired by two ministers of the Wage System to a sociologist who was at the Faculty of Social Sciences by the Minister of Education. This is Mrs Silvia Karadžič and Mojca Babič, who were later admitted to a regular working relationship in spite of all the government's prohibitions of employment and strict instructions on the reallocation of the necessary workers within the departments and ministries. These two ladies participated in the preparation of a catastrophic wage law in the public sector. I am not surprised that the law of thorns is in the fifth trade unionists of the public sector, whose reasoned proposals have been under-involved in this law or totally ignored. The secretary of the Office for the Wage System, Mrs Dubai, passed the rules on the financing of education at the Ministry of the Interior after having received a contract for study at work after three months of service. She was admitted to work after the intervention of her husband, who reminded the Minister that his superior was at the time of the Minister's service in the Aggressor JNA. In the still mentioned office, Director Igor Klinar writes the above-mentioned law before its adoption and, as soon as possible, gives a lecture on its effectiveness and usefulness to civil servants and therefore receives a fee from the state budget. All too often, it's supposed to be forgotten that there's a discount down there at the front door. And that's what he does during his regular state service. Even the fees are pretty astronomical. If we return or turn to the cabinet of the minister, after Minister Bohinc arrived there was chaos. The person who has a decision by the Secretary of the Minister with a score of 4,5 shall perform the tasks and shall take good care of the Head of this Cabinet. If I just turn to the minister. Your industrious secretary, Mrs Vida Lopič, who is now excused for maternity leave, has a decision from the counselor. Once again, despite the government ban and the abundance of hardworking and capable secretaries within the Ministry of the Interior, you have again, unjustifiably and again, imported your new secretary, Mrs Tina Gams, with a university education. Look at this absurdity. Back from the FDV. Again, you were her mentor. And she was, as a thank-you to the 2000 national elections, the leader of your personal electoral headquarters. It is true that, given her education, she can be very capable and will take part in a traineeship at the Ministry of the Interior. Then where are you going to put her? You're probably already saving her some outstanding job that you think she deserves. However, the government opinion can be re-examined by the Ministry of the Interior's fellows and scholarships. Just as your personal adviser, Mrs Piar or Mrs Tina Hrastnik, who has also passed the invitation and despite the government's recommendation on non-employment, has been wiped out under her nose. Her career, however, ended according to an article in Ne Del when they called about her received bouquets of flowers and their three consignors. Your action followed, Mr. Secretary, that she immediately stopped walking with you abroad. It is said that this measure also calmed jealousy in his own house. In order to avoid an unloving situation, you have helped her to take her to the office of the former President of the National Assembly, your party colleague European Member, Mr Borut Pahor. However, this time, unlike your recruitment at the Ministry of the Interior with an appropriate invitation to tender, but of course with very reasoned recommendations. In your office, however, the Ministry of the Interior is already in charge of all the sympathetic but unfortunately insufficient professional staff that your secretary of state is forcing, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar. They come, as does she, from the coast, from the departments in which the priority of employment is economic crime. However, they prefer to go to Ljubljana to relax a little in the international department of the Ministry of the Interior. Then they take up subsecretary posts in the cabinet. In this case, it's a mag. Sandija Curina, who would certainly be much more needed where he was, on the Police Administration of Koper, because economic crime is a wound for both Mr Bohinec and the United List of Coasts. Speaking of your secretary, Mr. Secretary, Secretary Ingrid, I apologize. Astrid – the lady writes such editorials and reports that those who have become disdainful, the language in which today's interpretation is written, the response to today's interpolation should read some of its editorials, and then understand how a lady official is weak in her mother tongue. It is no wonder that, as a local official, together with her long-standing mentor, Mr Aurelius Yuri, she was unjustifiably paid a fee for learning the Italian language. That was a scandal in the Primorski News years ago. Her official travel abroad with or without Mrs. Nevenka Črešnar Pergar has ended too often as a private family visit. Like football matches Slovenia-France in Paris or as a regular fashion shopping. The maps, of course, paid for these family members, according to the guarantees of tourist workers, for the tourist company Kompas, led by Mrs Nevenka's husband Črešnar Pergar Mr. Janez Pergar. In another European capital, a number of novels were performed. But what if, when the Court of Auditors takes a look at the Court of Auditors, Mrs Danica Praha, a well-known member of the United Nations from Velenje, who became Head of the Audit and Internal Oversight Service at the time of the arrival of Minister Bohinc? The accounting auditors prefer to focus on the general police administration to cover their own butter at the Ministry of the Interior. If we move on to administrative and internal matters, the rapid withdrawal of Mr Bojan Bulgarian from the Ministry is now understandable. At his work, it started to smell. When writing decisions, they don't count deleted things as Dr. Bohinc presents them to us in the media. Those contested decisions are written by a handful of voters coordinated by the Director of the MNZ Personnel Service, Mr Stanislav Pavlič, and also by the United Nations, who participates in all the toasts in Six, their joyous residence. Mr Pavlič took care of himself, his wife, even a large number of relatives, and undoubtedly the fine and professional lawyers from the cabinet of the minister who write decisions for extremely astronomically good wages or payments at home at the time they should be at work. In their home environment, they are probably more motivated and gathered to write these decisions, which are all too often not to find the addressee, but rather to bring them back to the Ministry of the Interior. Today, two media outlets do not find the exact number of these undeclared decisions. I am sure that the future minister will need a very busy and capable table calculator and quite a few moments of accumulated counting and control of these contested decisions. I hope that accounting will require a list of the writers of these decisions and the amount of these paid fat fees received by the individual consecrators, most likely the sympathizers or members of the United Nations. I don't want anyone to say I'm gonna leave the General Police Department alone. Let's take a look at this so-called excellent cooperation between Dr. Bohince and Dr. Angel, the Director General of Police. Is it just a playful media support and understanding between them? This flickering of their shoulders and the giving of bilateral compliments is not within these eight months, since the Slovenian police, under Dr. Angelzew's tactics, have given birth to nothing tangible. On the contrary. Traffic safety in these months is shockingly poor. Never since we have been in Slovenia alone have we recorded so many dead on our roads. The guidance developed by a doctor of science who claims to be an expert in this field cannot achieve European standards. The situation in Slovenia in this area is at the bottom of the European scales. When Dr. Anjelj says that he will not wear a uniform, because it is backward and that, according to his bad information, they only do so in the East, they certainly cannot agree with this, neither the Italian nor the Austrian Director-General of Police, who, according to his statements in the media, has already provided their own and then Slovenian diplomatic representations. With the policy of intimidation of subordinates and unjustifiable use of status, the Slovenian police will not go far. Those who are critically and innovatively involved in improving, updating the Slovenian police are either flying from their positions or already in the chasm. Perhaps because their good suggestions need to be applied. That is why our new director-general is running out of strength, as every day the new poor person comes along without a driver from his native Prekmurje to Ljubljana with an uncomfortable Renault Laguno and then, of course, take her home. However, for the work we expect from such an expert, he is debilitating as a diabetic and overworked driver. Slovenian cops, with all due respect for them or the police, are not guilty of not being able and unable to concentrate on the successful conduct of the Slovenian police. It can't be an example because it only works here and there to go to some "schnell course" from the English language to Berlitz. As a top manager, it was intended to help select him as a junior resident colleague of Bohinec, Dr Jože Floriančič, dean of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, to whom various accusations should be made, more than the other candidates for the director of police, at least the basis of English or German language, due to the disputed conduct of the college. After providing police personnel, there is virtually zero in both languages. You can't even drink coffee without a translator with other guests. He also hates to appear in front of Slovenian media. So he came up with two of his deputies, who, of course, send them into the fire when there are hot darkness that they do not care about. But he prefers to go home as early as the middle of the day to the Apache family. Not to mention how he staffed up his office. Under his leadership, we have achieved a record in all these years of independent Slovenia. Its functionality and results are still today and certainly not in the future and will not be worth discussing. After the elections, it will be necessary to draw up new, non-political, professional guidance from the internal minister to the general police administration in order to put an end to this calvary on the general police administration. As a flower, I can say that I was last called by a foreign diplomat and was appalled that he could not speak to a competent person from his office who could help him, because his personal secretary couldn't tie the phone because he didn't know the basics of any foreign language, except perhaps Croatian. We can think of the impression that the representative of the European Union, Mr Tomas Kaufman, of the Ministry of the Interior, went back to Europe. That's enough, not only to replace this beloved minister of ours, but even for a number of criminal charges. Besides, there's a whole bunch of loose ends. I haven't even come down to the issue of borders, Croatian occupations, illegals, asylum seekers, economic crime and more. That's it. Unfortunately, there's not enough time. I say again, I'd need 15 hours. Of this, just to end the problem of the Ministry of the Interior and start the next problematic ministry, this is the Ministry of Culture, where it would take about 15 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, just a reminder. Your debate was really on the border, right at the border of political culture. This was not an interpretation of the government's work, and I apologize to the people who have been carelessly mentioned about this speech and, of course, do not have the opportunity today to say anything. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Respected and respected. Interpellation in parliamentary democracy is intended to exercise the political responsibility of the government or individual ministers in relation to Parliament. It is therefore a political assessment of the government's work to show whether the government or individual minister still enjoys the full confidence of Parliament. As a rule, therefore, the debate on interpretation in Parliament ends with a proposal for a vote, which is also made possible by the formation of an alternative government. Today it was said that it should be just a debate to see what it was all about. However, it must be remembered that interpolation is not such an innocent institute that we can just use when someone is loved. It is so strange that the interpellationers did not require the earliest meeting of the national assembly. For if they have taken step A, we should also take step B to assess the work of the government and say no to the government if it is to be convinced of the allegations of interpretation. We'll see what happens next. There was an absurd situation in which the government coalition had to convene a meeting of the State Interpellation Chamber against its own government. That this meeting has been convened in such a way, while it is understandable by the coalition, because it is only so possible for the government to reject the allegations recorded in its account in the interpretation by an reasoned reply. For the Government must have the right to reject unfounded charges in a legal manner. It's here today and it's happening. This interpolation is clearly an abuse of constitutional and commercial provisions for the purposes of the pre-election campaign. While the Interpelants say how normal it is for a government to deposit accounts at the end of its term of office. Therefore, they did not hide their intention to convene an extraordinary session to address their interpolation only a few days before the elections. Of course, it is normal for governments or ruling parties to end up in charge of their conduct. This is exactly what the campaign is intended to do, in which government parties demonstrate the success of their work in the government. But the opposition is the opposite. He tries to prove the relative or total failure of his political opponent. However, as we all know, we do not know the case of doing this at a parliamentary session on the interpretation of the government's work a few days before the elections. This just confirms our suspicion that the applicants are unable to offer alternatives to the development of Slovenia, and therefore they are constantly resorting to the logic of emergency situations. They are also counting on such extreme politicization at a time that is all over the normal world primarily devoted to permissive pleasures - it must be said that we are still in the month of August - inspired by the dissuasion of people from politics. I'm afraid it's a modeling policy that tries to drive people away from politics and thus from voters, because it's counting on lower electoral participation to make the expression more accessible to its supporters, such a different fanatical manifesto. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm disappointed in the content of the interpolation. If someone who has actually been dissolved Parliament from which part of Members will not appear on the candidate lists at all will not run for office again, in this case a person would expect at least the topic to be carefully selected and professionally justified or if it were the needs of the state, for the real needs of the country, but whether it was a vacation, regardless of the pre-election campaign, in which case we do not deal with such problems. In particular, if we are trying to understand what we have been hearing for months, there is an army of government experts working in the shadows preparing an alternative development programme for Slovenia. Although we have heard today that part of this programme is supposed to be published or the entire programme, but this is also discussed below. Instead of dealing with what is extremely important for the country and what is carefully chosen, we have received an uneven and substantively weak text, where some chapters are stretched out on several sides and others are directed at only a few sentences, even though it is a developmental subject such as budget, taxes, banking, etc. For example, while we are all well aware of the fact that Slovenia, after a gross social product, is approaching three quarters of the average of the old members of the European Union by purchasing power per capita, which is undoubtedly a major success for Slovenia, the interpelants mark Slovenia's backlog on the average of the countries of the old European Union. It is as if our country has already surpassed this average of old Europe and is suddenly lagging behind. We are going in the direction of convergence and comparison and sharing of common destiny. The same is true for the obsessive repetition of the claim that the reduction in unemployment was negligible and will result from administrative measures in employment institutions, although their own table shows that the number of unemployed persons decreased by a good 16% from 1999 to last year. This means only four percentage points less than the promise of a coalition agreement. But we do know what the world situation was like at that time. We are not running from the fact that this is still a serious problem. On the contrary. However, it is not nearly as interpolation investors claim. It could still be listed, but it is likely that there will still be an opportunity or another time. The Interpelants also confirmed our expectation that they will extend the subject of interpolation to their old topics of intolerance and exclusion of others, which apparently lie far better than the debates on verifiable facts concerning the development of Slovenia in recent years. This is how we will obviously talk today about deleted ones, although Slovenian policy has devoted a considerable amount of time to this topic, probably too. This is so much more absurd because the Constitutional Court, by its rulings, has clearly paved the way for a solution to the problem. When will it be? I believe he'll be saved sooner or later. Members of the coalition parties were ultimately forced to convene an interpretation meeting on their own in order to limit as much as possible the damage caused by this grave abuse of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But since we are already here and because the opposition wants to perform, we will present the achievements of Slovenia in the coalition in a reasoned manner over the last four years. They weren't small, and they'll be bigger in the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on interpretation. Any simple programme, either created by the state, civil society or entrepreneurs, is ultimately evaluable. I think and in the New Slovenia Group we also think that in four years of operation, we deserve to lead the country or that the government deserves to give its results on the scale, what it has promised, what it has achieved and what it has not achieved. This is important not only for the elections but also for the elections. The election campaign doesn't start one month before the elections. The election campaign starts as soon as you're elected. It's a golden rule. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we do not think that this is a sin if we consider the results of the government today. She has the right to say what she did. We're objectivizing. It's a normal way to work. Otherwise, citizens themselves feel what the government has done or where our economy is, how many businesses there are, how much there is to reduce self-employed people, what happens to waiting species in health care, what it is to looking for a job, how it is with our roads compared to our neighbours. Feelings on your own skin. However, it is also necessary to evaluate. The way we want it today is deeper. Wealth or property behaves according to some kind of zero sum. Where something is taken away, it accumulates elsewhere. Citizens have the opportunity to see yachts, have the opportunity to see rich villas. That's what came up when you took someone. Some who have impoverished families who have lost their jobs. And some on the other hand, people with billions of assets. All this can be a game total nothing. Of course, with the help of the poor functioning of the country and the crime that the state does not hold on to its poultry. Accumulation in the previous system has disappeared in worthless certificates, largely signed by Mr Drnovšek. Some values were lost in Sikura, a SIB bank. But this property exists somewhere. Be in Celovac, the Cayman Islands or somewhere else. Let's see what happened to the transition. Last year we discussed the closure of the property. It has been authorised for the management and supervision of the Property Change Audit Agency. 680 billion damage to social property. Well, after some coordination, emergency and intervention, an amount of 86 billion damage finally came. According to the locals, there's a lot of things to say. Let us take a look at the report or magnetogram of what happened at the meeting where we discussed this issue in the National Assembly. We expected our data to be seized by institutional owners. And they didn't do anything. The yield is about 15 to 20%, with interest of 23 to 25 billion. Where are the other billions? In tycoon pockets. A representative of the agency says, quote, "A little cheat, let's say it's wrong. It's not a crime. The caravan's moving on. With regard to cases of injury, these were about 600, or according to some statement, this magnetogram, it says 500." Agency representative: "The police have this information. The government has set up some kind of inter-resort commission." Where are these effects, where is this commission? Government representatives. What happened? Counselor Anica Popovic said: "After our perception, there was little detection, very little conviction. No one has been sentenced to a prison sentence, even though they go down to billions." The defense attorney filed charges, and they were dismissed. Just like that. I quote, quote, "The documents have disappeared, too. And so on, and so on. We had a lot of cheers, we called, there was no special effect. The D.A. hasn't folded once. Even with our audits." The state's attorney says, "Well, there's only one understatement and neglect." In the end, we can sum it up. All of this, including the work of the Agency, proved to be a means of concealing crimes and causing apparent concern for legality, in fact for this or that, was only a cover for the State. Or as they say, "make-up." And where's the money? Look at the villas, look at the companies, look at the shareholders that were created all of a sudden, also using certificates that some did not skillfully convert in the way that they provided and bought shares in other companies, while providing guarantees with these certificates that were not theirs at all. In this regard, the Committee has adopted two - I think - decisions, five or six, that the Government should decide on the responsibility of the Attorney General in the prosecution of crimes. The government didn't discuss it, it didn't judge, it didn't decide anything. The Committee on the Economy expresses concern about the work of state institutions. This has also been confirmed by fellow Members of the ruling coalition because you could not avoid these crimes. Conclusion. No one was sentenced to prison. A lot of excuses without justification. The Slovenian development company, which played a key role, was eliminated. The DSU is set up instead. The Agency for the Revision of Property Transformation was abolished. Both institutions disappear in order to erase the traces. These crimes have consequences for weak economic growth, for thousands of families who have lost their jobs, an empty budget. Some of them had pockets full. These are some companies. I'm not gonna list them. This story continues. This year's Vrhnika leather industry. A similar story, we could call TAM 2. At TAM, 12 billion tolls disappeared for the purpose of maintaining businesses. Money went mostly to the bank to be rehabilitated. In this case too, the IUV restructuring in 1999 is provided with 1.5 billion tolars and a loan or State guarantee of 300 million. Last year's data, 2003, 2.7 billion losses, is promising even greater this year. This year, the state will throw money back in order to get things done by the elections, and then the story goes on. Banks are being rehabilitated. This is the responsibility of the state because it has failed to resolve what is necessary by its actions. If we have now talked about companies that have been bankrupted and social security-related in this way, many people can also talk about the behaviour of the Liberal Democracy and Coalition in the event of the creation of new businesses. The case of AP Lovrenc in the Drava Field. I've prepared a DVD for this case, a CD. The National Assembly does not have the necessary equipment. For everything he has money, they have refused to me, so there will be no show, but you can look at it on the website of New Slovenia, where you will see what statements were made by Secretary of State of Tauzes and others involved. An entrepreneur decides to invest heavily, recycle tires, waste oil and the like. This would create some 100 jobs in connection with the budget payment. Ministers and other officials, or the Secretary of State and other officials, appear at this initial event and all nod and stifle that this is an extremely good project. That applicant or entrepreneur shall provide the means, apply for the invitation to tender, fulfil all the tendering conditions. The government gives him a temporary permit or an agency because he has not performed an experimental operation and the experimental operation cannot until he has a permit, so the vicious circle begins. Then he gives him temporary permission because if he were to meet this condition of measurement, then he should automatically get a permit. Of course, this did not happen, even though they imposed on him who had to examine or carry out these missions and did so in time. Then, of course, the delay occurred, and eventually the project failed. This project was nothing because there was no agreement. Here they were misdirected, lied, and applied rules that were not in force at all. Others in the local community have also played in this business, and they themselves acknowledge that they have prevented the party from doing its work. As a higher arrogance, however, the Secretary of State states that this is a good project and that the Mayor of the Municipality of Lendava needs to be amended because he is not normal. Dear Minister, 15,000 tons of rubber waste was produced in Slovenia. Where are these tires? One part of them may be on fire in Austria right now because they issued a permit there. Most remain in Slovenia. It's an ecological hazard. One part of the tires was burning in Anhove, so the Anhoveans also know where the tires are. That's the result. Finally, no jobs, no budget, no social security project goes to Austria. This way, of course, is not working, economic policy and on the other hand, state aid - Mr Močovnik, who previously presented himself as a good worker. Most of these state aids to subsidise tourist destinations went to wealthy companies in their budget as grants. To Portorož, to Kranjska gora, to Maribor or to Ptuj. They've checked into places where they're deficient, where they're underdeveloped. Those guys couldn't get into this project. That's how it is. There's a lot of other stories, we just said one thing. Regarding this project, it recycles: this entrepreneur is, of course, suing the country and is well on track to obtain a lawsuit of almost a billion tolars. Because of the irresponsible conduct of government officials or officials. Employment. You have promised, in particular, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs in this coalition contract, the reduction of unemployment, the increase in employment, the equalisation of opportunities and employment for all citizens. Particular attention will be paid to preventing the social exclusion of women, Roma and the long-term unemployed. What happened? The unemployment of the disabled has increased from 17,000 to 21 000, assuming the right data - also those we have received in the last week for direct intervention in the employment agency - hidden records. The waiting period for the long-term unemployed has not decreased. The transition from unemployment to employment has decreased. The decline in the number of self-employed occurred between 2002 and 2003 - from 90 thousand,801 to 78, 000,914 people, amounting to nearly 12,000 self-employed. That's the result of that government. That's what you have in the data of the Republic Employment Service. I quote them. The number of agricultural workers decreased by a quarter in three years, from 8 thousand to 6 thousand 298. You heard right. In the last year, the number of employees in agricultural activities has decreased by 553 persons, in non-agricultural activities by 2425, in self-employed persons there is a reduction of almost 2 000 persons, among independent entrepreneurs there is a reduction of 600 persons. Reduction of the active population by 3,000. Now I would like to present a chart - I apologize for the fact that it is worse to see - unemployment. Increase in inflows, unemployment. Unemployment, the influx since 1999, where 80 thousand, increased to 82 thousand in 2000, to 87 thousand in 2001, to 87 thousand in 2002 and to 94,000 in 2003. Employment from unemployment [[in employment]] 62 thousand, 60 thousand, 52 thousand, 52 thousand and 50 thousand. That's the result. From this we could conclude that unemployment must increase. And where's the trick in this statistical number? Delete from the record or move to another record. As I said before, we got this data from the employment agency. Mr. Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is not here, can take a look. These people are 12 thousand 970 at the end of 1993. And on July 31st this year, there were 13 thousand 528. We have to take that into account, these people. Because these persons are not unemployed, neither are they incompetent to work, nor are they retired, but are still in the employment institution. So if you add these people up, these are periods, you get data: 2001 - 104 thousand 316 unemployed persons, 2003 - 108 thousand 963 and June 2004 - 108 thousand and more. Similar data also refer to unemployment. According to the ALO methodology, that is, survey unemployment: in 2001 - 6.4%, 2002 - 6.4% and in 2003 - 6.6%. So they're consistent. That is why I propose to the diameter and to the Minister of Labour that you correct the number of unemployed in all brochures. And be credible. So you're not talking about reducing unemployment, you're talking about increasing unemployment. At the same time, I would like to remind you of where the Roma employment programme is. It's in your drawer, but you don't do it. The programme of non-profit social enterprises, apprenticeships, apprenticeships and not listing the rest. Social dispersion is therefore also the result. Retirement. Proposal for a coalition [[Quote]] : "The coalition will support the solution to maintain the principle of proportional pension and salary movements." What happened? Please, if you'll give me a graph. With the amendment introduced by the coalition in 2000 and then strengthened in December 2001 and 2002, pensions fall compared to salaries. In the last three years, pensioners have lost about 2.5 pensions. Pensions don't follow salary growth. Who suggested this method of coordination? The coalition partner, DeSUS, the one who should be most concerned about the interests of pensioners; they proposed this coordination. Thus pensions fell from 75% in 2000 to 71% in 2003, disability from 61% to 57%, family from 53% to 49%, and total from 68 to 64.5%. This is the worst reform ever carried out without the consent of pensioners. Who gave you this right to take pensioners? Health care. You promised: "Definition and content of the programme and on this basis definition of changing the type and quantity of rights." Was that done? No, no, no. "Health care homes shall remain as providers of activities at the primary level and on the basis of this arrangement of the relationship between establishments and concessionaires." Was that done? No, no, no. "Exclusion from the system of those health rights which are not necessarily necessary, for example medical treatment." Where is this made? "Change of health insurance premiums, taking into account the risks" – nothing. Complementation of voluntary insurance; four or six emergency centres in existing hospitals — nothing. The operation of the internal network with standards – nothing; this network has been in place since Mr Cukjat was Secretary of State. You haven't finished your public health network. The waiting periods with which Mr Minister is likely to operate – most of these operations have even extended. This will give you a chance to see on another occasion. But you did a book on health reform and a reform that amounted to 300 million minus. You have raised your contribution rate in 2001, and in these three years, the loss has increased from zero to 33 billion tolars. In three years, you took 15 billion from your employer's contributions and increased your loss to 33 billion; previously, the system was harmonised. Implementation of the healthcare management project – EUR 4 million; the system does not work; each institution has its own system. You have not introduced compensatory schemes, virtually equal or greater losses in health institutions, differences in the supply of the population, you have argued with the unions, you have replaced the premises of Trnovo Hospital for rooms in the skyscraper. And school is just an analysis. For a little while. Three quarters of the adult population is not written enough to handle information. This is the analysis you presented in the National Assembly. So poor functional literacy. Too high inflows of unskilled people from schools, poor knowledge transfer, increased violence in schools. That's what all the analysis shows. The apathy of the students increases, the lack of interest. Students only learn for grades. The number of psychosomatic disorders and suicide rates is increasing. Foreign affairs with Croatia. That's all I'm going to touch because he took the key things in his relations with Croatia, Mr Drnovšek. You have indicated the arrangements for relations with Croatia. It's borderline. Arrangement of the Zagreb branch. Relationships are even more acute. There's no limit on the sea. There's more incidents. Discrimination against our citizens when buying real estate. A worse position than the Austrians or the Germans. Schoolyards, black construction - no action. Culture. You have promised to provide funds for certain emergency cultural programmes. Instead of 5.3 billion, or 6 billion, you've spent only 1.063 billion. Just a quarter of these assets. That's all you're after. And you promised the culturers, but in fact you only reduced the possibility of facilitating income tax or corporate tax. Thank you very much. Quickly, given your limited time, a more detailed presentation could not be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u38	Thank you very much. And lastly, this is the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we do not agree with the opposition's position. We agree with the government's position that assesses the work of interpolation investors as an inappropriate attempt to use the interpolation institute for pre-election purposes. We do not agree with the opinion of the Interpellation Applicants that the response prepared by the Government is merely an attempt to report on the work that it is not a response to the interpretation findings. We are deeply convinced that the proposed interpretation against the government represents an abuse of the Constitutional Institute. We would understand that the interpellations' proponents point out government errors over a four-year period. From the content and the title of the interpolation itself, however, it is clear that our coalition contracts are being implemented, in which the coalition parties have committed themselves to implementing common programme objectives and tasks. We agree with the Government's conclusions that our coalition treaty cannot be subject to parliamentary supervision. Parliament's supervision can only be subject to concrete work, not something that is just an internal act of the coalition that has sent coalition partners to work. The National Assembly has never considered a coalition treaty and has accepted that it alone could become a binding act of the National Assembly, which could then be subject to the supervision of the enforcement of its own decision and the government’s compulsory programme, and only a possible subject of interpretation. In the parliamentary group, we believe that Slovenia is a successful country by all key indicators. The performance criteria and performance assessments are not set by Slovenia alone, but by others, assessed by others, like all other countries of the European Union and countries outside that community. With a high level of social protection, public financial stability and essentially a successful foreign policy, Slovenia is thus proving itself. During this period, we have become a member of NATO's alliance with the opposition, as well as the European Union. We also meet the conditions for ERM 2 so that in three years we can take over the euro as our payment currency. There is no way that we can understand that the fundamental success achieved, the reduction of inflation and others, cannot be declared a government success and the success of the coalition. The same applies to the entry into different Euro-Atlantic integrations, in particular the European Community. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are convinced that we have successfully achieved the basic objectives set during the 2000-2004 term. There is no way we can understand that such a government is being declared unsuccessful. This is only part of the pre-election game, which has been going on for a good year. Interpellation, in our view, is an expression of the immeasurable complacency of politics, which is convinced by its objectives and ambitions that it can interpret the government in a way that is not known in European democratic practice. In the DeSUS Group, we are surprised at the so-called quality of the opposition product, which is called the interpretation against the government. We agree with that part of the public that considers such a product to be highly unprofessional. In fact, it tells us about the double management competence of the interpeel proponents. We were confident that the expert councils of the opposition parties would present and document more appropriately a document that would show significant shortcomings in the government's work, while at the same time pointing out the achievements achieved, as recognised by the opposition. In the DeSUS Group, we understand the proposaler's objectives, but we do not think that the National Assembly is a place where the interpellation candidates would test the skills of their experts. Only these should be tested with a better programme during an official campaign to start on 3 September 2004. And at that time, you wanted to set up today's session. A careful reading of the interpolation showed that the largest opposition party was abused by that institution to present its electoral programme. In fact, they do not assess the concrete objectives of the coalition contract in interpolation, but the individual sub-sections of our coalition contract are used to hang their pre-election shop on it. Despite the great concern expressed by the interpellation candidates for the lower social strata, we are surprised by the social insubordination of the DeSUS Group. Rather, the tax and social solutions envisaged by the Slovak model would have a significant impact on older citizens, pensioners, people with low incomes. Also, the demand for the abolition of the minimum wage is at odds with the social state, as they would leave employers with every opportunity to work on their own. In their criticism of heartless liberalism, they simply overlooked that, in fact, it was not the government's proposal, but the interpellation's proponent. Interpellators are concerned that pension expenditure is declining, although the number of pensioners is increasing. In their concern for the pension population, they overlooked that some of their theories in this area were those affected by the high rate of replacement. They were disturbed by the high amounts of family and widow's pensions, and they were also disturbed by a wide range of disability benefits. They considered that the fundamental weakness of the new pension reform was the introduction of new pension rights, such as a widow's pension, an allowance for the recreation and valorisation of pensions, given the movement of average wages. The existing pension reform resulting from the agreement between the affected social partners and the country is the result of very sharp negotiations between the employers' association and also the active role of DeSUS The result of the agreement was a socially reduced, more acceptable reform that has passed on its burden to pensioners and employees over a longer period. And just as the government has introduced in pension reform, it has disrupted those criticisms of this system, which today most criticise government solutions and forget what they have proposed and identified as their shortcomings. Yesterday, when voters are invited, it's different again. The same was true of article 50 of the Constitution, the right to a pension. First, decisively, in the year of the election, when this article was adopted, we agree. The role of double faces. In the DeSUS Group, we understand the problems raised by the interpellation proponents. Slovenia has become a mature normal country, several centuries of Slovenian aspirations have been realized through its own country, and now the issue of opposition is how to proceed. We know. In the country, we know that citizens are relatively satisfied, that the economic situation is stable, that state institutions are functioning and that the relative security of citizens is given. Most of the exams that have been conducted by both our country and the government are satisfactory. Of course, there are also deviations from the legal order and also attempts to abuse power. The opposition can only succeed if it creates the appearance of disorder, failure, discontent, uncertainty, and citizens know what is true. The opposition criticism of government clients in the form of interpretation does not indicate where Slovenia is supposed to go in the future, but creates a sense of unconsistency and confusion of objectives and, in our opinion, turns the compass into the past, towards the already exceeded goals. Instead of responding to the problems of the future, facing globalisation in the post-modern period, they offer us past conflicts, renewing the values left by modern society to the private spheres of citizens. Interpellation against the government or coalition contract does not take into account that Slovenia is only 13 years old as a country. That she's still in her early teens. In her youth, she became a European and world elite, and at the same time she had to suffer her childhood and teenage diseases. Interpreters forget that Slovenia can no longer be compared with the newly created countries in the former SFRJ area, but we can compare ourselves with the countries of Europe and the world that have a centuries-old tradition of democratic regulation. But there are many of these [[including]] they face similar or even more difficult problems than our young country. Interpreters also forget that they have made certain decisions that were not good, professionally tested, tested, and show today the symptoms of bad decisions. We too can ask interpolation promoters a few questions in order to raise a good memory. Who laid the foundation for privatisation? Who has taken a decision on denationalisation, which has brought so many new injustices, has returned Slovenian national wealth to those who have never obtained it through work or earned money from honest work in their history? Who literally sold out the Slovenian Housing Fund, for which we, especially the elderly, invested in giving up our salaries? During whose rule did most Slovenian workers lose their jobs and were forcibly retired? Have you forgotten about the event in industrial labor Maribor and elsewhere? And finally, who recognized the border on land and sea with neighbouring Croatia in the Basic Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia and neighbors gave a lighthouse on the Cape of Savudrija, which was next to Triglav, Blejski, could now be called another, island and other symbols of Slovenia, as we were taught by our country's faithful teachers in our teenage years. And after all, how do you imagine the interpretation against the Minister of Culture? With three flat sentences? And now we want all the mistakes and problems, including those resulting from your decisions when you were in power, to impose exclusively on this government coalition and this government. We do not support interpretation in the DeSUS Group for all of this because we consider it unfounded, misleading, excessively, nor can we support it because it constitutes an abuse of the Constitutional Institute. In fact, the storm surrounding the interpretation of the abuse of constitutional institutions shows how its proponents would respect constitutional or legal order in that country. We would tailor it for a political moment, if necessary. It is precisely because of such ease with regard to legal, constitutional and procedural rules that the DeSUS Group raises deep doubts about the ability of the interpelling candidates to exercise democratic authority. For these reasons, we will not support interpolation in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u40	We have heard the views of all parliamentary groups on interpolation. This is followed by presentations on the position of individual Members and Members. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! This interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is probably also an answer to the way this government has managed and presented its achievements in the last two months. I can honestly say that when I talked to people, they said, "We're tired of planting these flowers." I always trust voters, and if we go too far, then voters just say, "We've had enough of this!" And interpellation is the answer by the electorate and the electorate, not just the government's work, but the overly good-natured speech. In fact, a worker with 70,000 or less monthly wages cannot hear that honey and milk flow in this land. And the distribution in this country is increasing. Interpellation probably has two purposes. I don't mean much about the coalition treaty myself, I won't talk about it, because I blocked myself from it in April 2001: it was probably signed and forced by the strongest party at the time because it was in the element of victory after the elections and probably even thought that it could do anything in this country, including by preventing Members from thinking and working with their heads, which is also Article 82 of the Constitution. We know that there have been attempts in this mandate to prevent coalition Members from signing requests for the establishment of investigative commissions and so on. So much for that. I believe that the bigger question that comes to the voters and voters is where this country goes if the government does not respect the will of the people. In this term we have witnessed three referendums: a referendum on deleted ones, where the government has simply turned to decision. The Minister continued to issue decisions as if nothing had happened. We have witnessed the law on overinvestment in the construction of the telecommunications network. With the excuse that it was not the right time, the government delayed [[Of course, speak well at a more convenient time,]] But he probably won't do it, he has no interest in doing it. But people have been overinvesting their investments years ago that Slovenia, as an information society, is now significantly better developed and can be better compared with other countries in the EU. And opening time. And opening time. It's a nice girdle, you could call it. [[likely to be infested]] between the policy, the Constitutional Court - how to play in a sophisticated way the possibility that the will of people is not realized in practice, that the law that people have voted on and that this national assembly has also voted on. I think this is a more crucial question when it comes to asking why the government is saying something and doing something else. I think that's a fundamental question. And why did this government, in the middle of this government, replace the search for dialogue with a dictatorship? Take it or leave it. In this concept, of course, the Slovenian People's Party also had to break up because adopting a dictatorship is not a democratic principle. It's more and more present. Many times silent, inconspicuous, but very subtle. Even more people feel the problem of centralisation of Slovenia. Not a single move in this mandate has been made by the government to allow municipalities more financial opportunities to realize what the majority of governments or, of course, the government, through sub-laws, insisted that the municipalities must comply. This allowed only those municipalities who survive financially to participate, without further appropriate use by the State budget. That they can also participate in competition by European funds. I believe that this is a very large cancer wound which must be overcome by a new mandate, which must be exceeded by the new government if we are to preserve Slovenia. To keep Slovenia inhabited and, of course, to keep the economy as steady as possible. A fine example of centralisation is the building law. On the infrastructure committee, for example, in the proposal I submitted, to postpone the imposition of compensation for the use of the building land for an unpaved building plot, Minister Kopač pointed out the municipality of Šmartno as an example; which, following ministerial or ministry instructions, adopted such a decree that the so-called test of the decisions was then almost a war between citizens and the municipality. And the congregation had to change the decree very quickly because it was hugely high. But Minister Kopač set this decree as an example, as one of the most exemplary examples of decisions that the young Slovenian municipality can adopt. I don't think in this term it holds the conclusion that there is anything special about corruption in us. In this mandate, we have witnessed Orion's affairs, the Zbilski Gaj, the SIB and so on. And until the responsible persons for the creation of these affairs are behind bars, until then, not the justice minister, excuse me, not the internal minister and the other government representatives in this area, you cannot say that you are successfully persecuting corruption. I could even list a number of other questions. But it's just one of a series of these measures. The Minister of Economy has today brought down a number of achievements that the Republic of Slovenia has achieved in this mandate. Hold that. However, Comrade Drobnic has already mentioned the case of IUV Vrhnnik. I must say that this is a typical example of how the country is a poor master. Or knowingly or as if she doesn't care about state property? In view of the fact that the State, when searching for its strategic partner in March of this year, did little for the American partner Paul Nevada, who then offered a fee of 220 tolls for the state share. Today, the shares of the IUV purchased by the Medvešek-Pušnik stock exchange company are worth about 45 tolars. The state has done nothing, despite an invitation to the Prime Minister, whom I addressed a good week ago to determine the responsibility of the leaders in this firm for the situation. She voted in favour of the discharge of the former administration, perhaps for an internal 'deal', one person was left in detention, at the moment, as a discharge. Or the example of Šmartno in Lithuania in the same context. This facility was estimated at EUR 60 million at the beginning of this year, and this same strategic partner, which had already been rejected by the government, offered 360 million as of July this year. No one in this country will offer such an amount for this plant and a re-enactment of production. No, nothing's done about it. Nothing. Minister Marble says nicely that the bookkeeping value is 600 million and that the country, as a good master, wants to survive as much as possible. No, as little as possible in such a way as possible, and in the final stage it will lead to such thinking only, it may lead to the same case as has already been mentioned today in the case of TAM. This is an unsustainable situation, and the Prime Minister here has a responsibility for the situation and I appeal that he act as quickly as possible in this particular case. As a very similar example of conduct, especially of the will of individual ministers, I have already mentioned Minister Kopač, when dealing with Slovenian mines. In the case of Rudnik Idrija and the amendment and amendment of the law introduced by his colleague Bevk this April, the government gave a positive opinion on the same solution to the problem. In the event of the rescue of the Rudnik Sitarovec Lithium, a negative opinion. Despite the fact that the Faculty of Natural Technology in Ljubljana has produced a pleriminary study in which it is clear [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] to the threat of Lithium, its inhabitants before the resurgence of water, that this real existence exists, that there is an urgent need to act; the Minister is excited, briefly said, and of course treats Slovenian mines to government and opposition. [[...]] For God's sake, I think we're making fools out here, frankly. And I can honestly tell you that such an approach by individual ministries is absolutely unacceptable. The same minister still runs from the responsibility of the government legislative service, which has clearly identified the ILO as responsible for the implementation of the GEOS law. No, it is still a welcome solution, probably because his party was also against this law in this House, which in a symbolic way has in the right moment legitimized the geometric centre of Slovenia as a symbolically state-created meaning for our country. Especially now that we are members of the European Union, such substitutes, as well as respect for the Slovenian language, should be particularly protected. But the caravan is moving on in this case. I would like to point out just one more question that one of the voters wrote to me, namely, in the case of the health ministry, which began this year in the construction of a new paediatric clinic with the procedure of public procurement for the conduct of advisory engineering in the management of the project and the construction of the Clinical Centre facility, a new paediatric clinic. Imos, d.d., was selected. Another company that applied for this call, Loka Invest, d.o.o., complained, first to the Ministry, then also to the State Audit Commission, but the Minister concluded the contract, although on 12 August 2004 the State Audit Commission gave it to the complainant. I think it would be right if something was said to do so, and this could also be a lesson for the next term. I think it would be time and it would be right for the Slovenian authorities to start respecting people's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u42	You weren't appointed. You were? Then you have a replica. Please, only Bevk has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I must protest the implementation of the Parliamentary colleague, Mr Rokavac, that the government coalition is separating the issue of closing parts in Slovenian mines from opposition and coalition treatment. It's a pure fiction. Indeed, I have tabled my proposal for marriage into the procedure already in mid-2002 and completed it in May this year, so that it has been in the procedure for a long time. Even to my law, the government had quite a few comments, and then, of course, we coordinated them in the proceedings, and so the law was passed, and certainly, in the next term, your law can also be adopted; you tabled it just before the end of this mandate, and you are simply running out of time for normal treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor. Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u45	Thank you. Look, Comrade Bevk, I did not report to the government coalition, in this case not, but the obvious flew to the Minister and to the government, ministers, because this was also the government's opinion on the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to close the Sitarjevec Lithium mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u46	Thank you very much, both of you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers who are still here. Look, I'm surprised to see some members of the government coalition that they consider this tabled interpretation and the final debate on those promises made by the government at the beginning of the mandate as an abuse of the interpolation institute and, of course, as something unusual, undemocratic. Look, we're in pre-election time. The government and government parties will promise again, they will promise a lot of things, and if voters do not get a clear answer to what those who promise again have fulfilled in the mandate when they rule, it seems to me that, of course, they will also be able to conclude on this basis how to believe these promises. And that's what this is all about, gentlemen. What you will now promise, people will be able to judge in the light of what you have done in this mandate. See, I see this debate as useful, especially for the future of Slovenia, because voters will be able to make more responsible decisions about who to trust in the voice and, of course, whether they will be ruled again by those who have not fulfilled the promise to a certain extent; the voters will decide to what extent the promises have been fulfilled. I will draw attention to some promises made that are even legal and some are not fulfilled. It is true, the state of unemployment in Slovenia. At the beginning of this mandate in 2000, the government received about 6.4% of the International Labour Methodology survey; the Forecast for this year is 6.8%. This is the only degree of unemployment at which we can compare internationally and which is correct. In short, unemployment has increased according to official statistics in this mandate. It is true, however, that at the beginning of this government's mandate was slightly below the average of the European community. This is true; but it has grown and is substantially, fundamentally, distant from the goal. And the same government's forecast, which said it would reduce the rate of unemployment survey to 5% by 2006, that's in a year and a few months, will be at least 5% once. Sorry, I don't believe this promise because trends or statistics are different. The government advocates always registered unemployment. Registered unemployment is our invention, that's our data, and of course it's falling. I submit that it only falls on the account of deleted records, those in a vacuum and are excluded from society. They are excluded from society because they are not addressed by any measure and they become recipients of some social assistance. Therefore, the number of recipients of social assistance has increased significantly, including as a result of price increases, also due to a large number of beneficiaries, but also because a certain proportion of people have been erased from records because they have not actively sought employment. And it is right that we deal with them separately, but we have to deal with them separately, for them we have to make specific programmes for how to involve these people in employment, how to motivate them to work, how to adapt them to their respective programmes, how to bring them back to the labour market, and not leave them somewhere, I would say, as recipients of some passive forms. That is why we have also written in our programme that we want to redirect as many of these passive aids as possible into active measures, job provision and, of course, not least into active employment policy measures. I'd touch more, poverty rates. The Minister today and also the Prime Minister mentioned the data from 2001. Excuse me. This is data from 2001, there's no new data. However, we have changed the Social Protection Act, two years ago or a year and a half ago, and the effects are that the number of recipients of social assistance has increased dramatically; it has increased from 35,000 to the current 62 000. And I would hardly believe that this reduced the risk of poverty in Slovenia - if we have so many beneficiaries, to passive forms. I don't believe it. And don't give me that information back in '04. And then, of course, make some comparisons. It is worrying that the Ministry of Labour has only introduced an information system in the field of social transfers now, only this year. It is therefore perfectly clear and well-founded that the Government has not taken care to prevent the impreciseness of accumulation, overlap and, of course, abuse in the area of social protection rights. Unfortunately, the government has not been able to take significant steps to shift the various passive forms into incentives for these people to join the labour market. I was very surprised today by the Minister's statement that family policy has nothing to do with demographic policy or with improving and raising birthrates. That's what the minister said here today. That's worrying. Because family policy is one of the important policies to stop negative demographic trends in Slovenia, to raise the quality. Of course, it's a complex policy, it's not just a single policy, it's a policy of a whole bunch of resources, how to get the right solutions to encourage young families to have children, not the burden. Of course, this has to do with housing policy, employment policy, pre-school education, education, and I don't know what else. Unfortunately, however, this government has not embarked on this mandate. Some of the commitments and commitments made to the government remain in national programmes. Some of these were not performed. This is a national development programme for higher education. We have written in this that higher and higher education regional centres will be established in all statistical regions and the development of higher education programmes. From different regions, we've had disagreements with the minister, but not with the faculty. We've reached a consensus that high schools do. Actually, those, for the sake of the economy. In our congregation, Brežica, we have been working for a year and a half to establish a high school of expertise for the needs of our economy. And we fail because there are constant blockades on the part of the higher education world. We had to complete the role six times. But it is not a problem that, and one would expect us to complement the role after that, as in the General Administrative Procedure Act or any other procedural law that governs it. No, no, no. We're constantly being forced into some additions. And now we've been informed that we're going to be able to adapt to some new methodology together. It's a planned braking. Finally, the government is responsible for this. Planned obstruction of the establishment of higher vocational schools in the Slovenian regions, and thus the protection of some unwritten rights of all three, two, and now three universities. It is also very sad that we are faced with significantly less money for direct regional incentives to the congregations last year. And according to last year, there was more of that money. He's getting less and less. And I think that this coherent regional development is actually breaking down here, and I don't know how it's going to go on with this policy. That is why I think this government's direction is completely wrong. I would like to touch on another important information because you want us to be concrete when we are talking about interregional differences. The inter-regional disparities in the unemployment rate have increased dramatically. The government itself recognises that the variation coefficient, which illustrates the inter-regional differences in unemployment, increased from 31.2% to 33.9% in 2003. In short, the differences are increasing. The Slovenian countryside is neglected by this area. And that's not right. Last but not least, we have warned this several times, and it is sad that you have excluded from all parliamentary debates the new legislation of coherent regional development and put such and other content at the forefront of an extraordinary session, which is significantly less important. For a limited period of time, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word of Dr. Marko Pavliha, Minister of Transport, because he wanted a discussion in the middle. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers! Let me first use a few words against my eyes specifically and then against the content of the interpretation. My assessment, which some have called offensive and arrogant, was focused solely on the content of interpolation, on incompetence, on inadequacy, on misleading, and not on specific persons that I have never named with concrete names. And it's arrogant to tell me how arrogant I am. I've been a minister for four months, and I didn't criticize my predecessor once, and I don't intend to do it today. Is that arrogance? Evidence more than Voltaire said the adjective could be the greatest enemy of the loner? As far as the content of the interpolation is concerned, unfortunately and disappointed, I must conclude that it is full of unilateral, misleading claims and also unrealistic. And this is about this, dear Members and Members of the opposition, as if I were to ask you, for example, "Mr. Ambassador, what color is your tie? Answer yes or no." Can you answer that question for me? As far as the quality and quantity of your interpolation is concerned. Look, I have to say, actually, your interpretation of transport is a big compliment to the government's work – you have gathered comments on the thorny three sides. Great! We responded at sixteen, and of course we could use more space, but we couldn't because of the spatial constraints. So if I can actually say from case to case now, which shows my question. For example, your claim is that we have not completed the highway program. Why don't you say that this government inherited the 1995 and 1998 program, which you yourself labeled to be absolutely unrealistic? And then, exactly in February, this government adopted a new national programme based on an economic, fairer, targeted distribution of highway construction. Why don't you say it? Why don't you tell me what this government built at that time? By the end of its term of office, this government will have built 166 kilometers and 700 meters of highway, if I can be very precise. And if we look at the entire construction from the very beginning, which is the beginning of the 1990s to today, the total length of these highways will be 339 kilometers and 400 meters. So 50% of the highway was built by this government. Why don't you say it? And why don't you say that this government has accelerated the construction of highways in the last two years for a third, financially speaking? The second track – once again the same approach, no second track was built. Why don't you say that this government inherited the 1996 national programme, which was implemented by 12%, ladies and gentlemen? Why don't you say it? And why don't you say that it is this government that has achieved that desire for the second track has become a reality; the second track is simply too expensive for our taxpayers to have more than 100 billion, and our government has achieved that this project has been classified among the 28 priority projects of the European Union, allowing us to draw on European funds. You had an opportunity when, of course, you ruled for a few months to speed it up, and that didn't happen. You are talking about routes and costs of routes, why don't you listen to the domestic and international professions who agree that our routes are ideal, all were chosen optimally. It is true that, on the one hand, we can read our legislation that it is possible to be a little too bureaucratic and complicated; to give only one example, from the stage of the initiative of placing the route into space until the adoption of the site plan is 79 phases and 20 consents of donors, but this guarantees that motorways are built in accordance with transport standards, financial capabilities, cultural protection, environmental protection, not to mention further. You're talking about the cost of increasing costs after a mile of highway construction. 3.3 million dollars is information that dates back to 1995. Then, on the basis of all the incentives between 1998 and 2004, this government will write in its national explanatory programme and a thorough cost analysis, which you, in particular, the opposition Members, explicitly commend. There are records of these meetings. Of course, this analysis is a logical reflection of what is happening, so please do not use misleading facts. I could talk for hours and hours, but I don't have time for this government to prepare all the professional bases for the most fair way of tolling, the electronic way in which this government, and you can ask carriers today, has begun to solve the problem of public transport. We have just signed concession contracts today, as this government has adopted a large package of modern maritime and aviation legislation, etc. But it probably doesn't make sense to convince you. It is important for us that citizens and citizens can see that there has been a great deal of work done during this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Word gets from a colleague of Sašo Pece. He's not in the hall. I'll give the floor to the Minister of the Interior who wanted it. He's not here. Davorin Tarchon gets his word. Excuse me, Mrs. Silva Nigga, you have the floor. I'll apologize for the back, in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My name goes hard through your mouth, but it's no big deal, it's important that others notice something and not just me. Today I have set out to say a few words in defense of the government, because the interpretations that have been put in such a way, of course, at this time of course, cannot be supported in any way. Therefore, respectable comrades or remember, comrades, excuse me, ladies and ladies or dear colleagues, I do not know whether you remember any more recently from this I will say precisely, exactly four years ago, what happened here in Šiška at one of the busiest incursions in the capital of Ljubljana on the Celovska road, on the Cerovska road 166, where the Hotel Integrated Sap Viator was once. With the release or the seat of a public company, passenger traffic was located and there is still a centre for foreigners, lumps and clusters of unhappy, sad, deceived people and thousands of refugees and asylum seekers who were "stuck and stuffed" on purpose, I use these plastic expressions, in small rooms and even smaller corridors and hallways. Infections, diseases, fevers, lack of sanitation, disagreements, escapes, conflicts. They were everywhere in Ljubljana, we found them on every lawn, near the bushes, in shops, without money, in a nearby library, unhappy and sad. A lot of kids without childhood, no play, no toys, no joy, no candy, no heat. And what happened? Have you forgotten? As a result of widespread disorder and constant alarming media messages, the potential for widespread infections led the local population of the fourth Šiška community, which by the way counts about 30,000 people, to protest. City councillors and city councillors have taken the initiative to move the Centre for Foreigners to a more suitable location, and in particular such places as these poor people who have been seduced have been robbed, as they have had to pay thousands of dollars to cross different borders and be stuck with us in Ljubljana, Slovenia, offering a suitable temporary shelter and not cages behind bars. There have been roadblocks in Celovska. You know, dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation has been borne by both foreigners, refugees and the local population for more than five years. And then what happened? In the United List of Social Democrats, we have made a commitment to the electorate to resolve this impossible situation. And we saved her. Such a complex problem is solved. The status of refugees is also regulated by marriage, as well as by asylum seekers. A modern refugee centre in Vič was built and the premises of a transitional character were renovated in Šiška on Celovška. Children under the auspices of Slovenian philanthropy spend pleasant days, as well as the hope that Šiškari and Medvoščany, all those who travel daily from Škofja Loka and other places of Gorenjska to Ljubljana and the surrounding area, will soon be realized, will drive through a modern tunnel in Šentvid. So much for traffic, a few words. Those who go to Croatia or through other small crossings, however, I think you are well aware of their condition and that they are built according to the most modern standards. Regarding the family policy you so like to talk about, I will be with just one illustration and with some facts. It's like a mother who just gave birth to a beautiful, healthy baby, happy, beautiful, seeing how this baby doesn't walk. The most common findings regarding family policy refer to nativity. And that's the cruelest lie, because you know there's no one way to get rid of nativity. In this ministry and in the United List of Social Democrats, we have devoted a lot of attention to this area and it has been the most important area where many results have been achieved. In particular, the measures reflected in the legislative solutions were aimed at increasing the level of resources for families with children to address the specific needs of families, families with special needs, single parent families, multi-family families, multi-child families; the equalization of opportunities for both parents: the transfer of decision-making powers from social work centres to the courts by clearly separating the professional work from decision-making; the realization of children's rights and protection; the harmonisation with European legislation; the very important establishment of a single information system, which was not so easy to establish, in view of such complex records, which were inherited in one way; the establishment of a Council for Children as an advisory body of a minister preparing a strategy for the development of the country's policy towards children, by preventing domestic violence; and the very much supporting programmes, particularly non-governmental sector support in particular. There are hundreds of these programs. New legislation in the area of parental protection and family benefits law and the law on marriage and family relations gradually establishes conditions for better coordination of professional and family obligations and for promoting the equal responsibility of both parents, thus providing more favourable conditions for the development of each family, for harmonious co-operation, for improving the quality of life, and thus certainly creating opportunities for a better life. The great news introduced by the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act is certainly maternity leave, paternity leave and child care, and adoption leave. This law, with numerous possibilities for the exercise of rights, allows parents to better coordinate their parental and professional responsibilities. Parental leave, parental benefits. On the other hand, a number of family benefits can be applied as a result of a short period of work due to parenthood. At the same time, it brings news of a more equitable allocation and commitment. The law confers special rights on parents born to twins, newborns, parents who have two children at home, the elderly, or by the age of 8, and those who have a child with special needs. New rights are also granted to parents who adopt a child from one year of age. Most of the news is also about the use of leave, such as transferability of leave and welfare. It is also a new right to a shorter working time until the third year of the child's age. One parent who fosters and protects a child up to the age of 3 years or more severely affected or mentally affected by a child under the age of 18 has the right to work for a shorter working period, which must include at least half a week’s work obligation. Great news is also the family allowance, which includes parental allowance, child support, child allowance, large family allowance, child care allowance, and partial pay for lost income. It is certain, however, that there are some disagreements at this implementation level. In particular, there are different interpretations in the various core environments, and in the short term the system of information will certainly be rectified in an appropriate manner. Last year we passed a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which abolished the income requirement for obtaining the right to compensation for maintenance. In the field of the enforcement of maintenance claims abroad, under the United Nations Convention on the Granting of Maintenance Claims abroad, a great deal of efforts have been made by the State to recover the subsistence allowance from an insured who lives abroad [[There have been a lot of cases like this, and remember your statements from sent-in offices.]] . It is likely that the next phase of regulating this area will order the separation of the maintenance fund from the guarantee fund and thus enable all those children and mothers to better and faster obtain livelihoods without a number of intermediaries. However, it is likely that the national development programme to improve the situation of the child in the Republic of Slovenia, prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will require a wide range of rationalisation and improvement for families, children and adolescents. With regard to the conditions for raising birthrates, however, I would say that without stable, continuous economic development and economic growth, active housing and comprehensive and adequate preventive health care in this area will be difficult to do. We all have to come together here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Now he gets in order because I missed him by mistake before, the word Saša Peca for my discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Your Honors are here! We must admit that the event of the last August month regarding the investment of interpretation, as regards the response by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, after all, as regards the convening of this extraordinary meeting, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, has passed the threshold of good taste. What happened in a normal country was not supposed to happen, so the government is interpreting itself. In doing so, at least in the context of some government parties, it has come so far that only the material bearing the "interpellation" mark, according to our assessment of "missive interpretation", has been renamed "the debate on the work balance of the Government of Slovenia until August 2004", i.e. the balance sheet of the period 2000-2004 or this term of office. It should be stressed, however, that despite the blurring in relation to the title of the act before us today, this balance will only be subject to control by counting the votes of Members belonging to an option. I want to say that any decision may be drawn today, and if it comes from the Liberal Democracy, the United List, the DeSUS or their co-thinkers, this decision will come back as if Slovenia has the best government in the whole world. It can happen that as such a farce or parody began, this will, of course, end this farce. For this reason, in the National Party, during the course of the entire event, we opposed the convening of such an extraordinary meeting, in which we would consider just before the end of the term, i.e. before the start of the electoral campaign, the interpretation, especially the interpretation that does not conclude in its content. In the National Party, we are used to the fact that if we take a particular matter into account, if we put it into the procedure, we can conclude it or offer a conclusion. Unfortunately, there is no conclusion before us today. Even if today were to conclude, this would be the end 20 days before the regular elections after the conclusion of the National Assembly. And any decision taken would not come into force, at least not in this mandate. We have therefore repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian National Party that the reference should be to extraordinary or regular meetings, which do not have a conclusion in their content, is irrelevant. My words are confirmed right now in the debate of Members, Members, Prime Minister, some Ministers, and they will be confirmed in the evening work. On the one hand, the coalition Slovenia, which has tabled the interpretation, namely SDS and Nova Slovenija, is and will today accuse the government of everything. She's going to blame the government for this year's tide as well as last year's drought. On the other hand, the government coalition, which is already Prime Minister Tone Rop's principle, will begin by finding that even this year's Olympic Games were undisturbed because of the existence of Liberal Democracy in Slovenia and similar things. According to our assessment, the performance of Prime Minister Toneto Ropa indicated a much broader problem in our country, a problem that should be more easily defined by the notion of ignorance or lack of understanding and ignorance of matter or of its own country. It is also important to note in public that we have not addressed the request in the National Party, the request to Prime Minister Toneto Ropa not to indicate that the candidates for the intervention are in the opposition, because the two political parties, who are members of the opposition, are therefore not an integral part of the government, have not supported this interpretation, have not signed their signatures and do not agree with such a political pre-election matter. Therefore, the lack of perception of the Parliamentary Chamber or the parliamentary power ratio for the Slovenian National Party is unacceptable. According to our assessment, it suggests even a certain limit on the perception of political space by Mr Tonet Rope, Prime Minister. And when we get to that dimension where we can say with certainty that there is a limited perception of the Prime Minister, then there is a crisis. And this crisis, according to our assessment, will not be resolved by today's interpolation, today's session or whatever you name it, today's balance sheet, but the fact is that the interpolation itself will take place on election day. At that time, people will say whether they are satisfied with the achievements of this government, which they are now able to achieve, or whether they are not satisfied with this government and will choose to do otherwise. The event that is taking place around us today is an exclusive and only pre-eminent event and therefore I also ask viewers or listeners to take the words that have been spoken so far and the words that will be spoken after my performance, to take in the domain or in search of new potential voters. In the past month, when individual farce took place, or when the stage of this farce took place, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been fairly politically controlled, namely, every other day, the individual minister has responded to the press conference visited. In the evening, a representative of the Slovenian Coalition met with a representative of the government, usually in Odessa, where they convinced each other, one of how bad the government was doing, the other of how the government was doing positively. But of course the saddest thing is that not the viewers, in that case of course we were all other viewers, we did not get that real picture and that, with such a work as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition of Slovenia are doing, we are blurring the reality. And that is the problem that just before the elections we will not be able to establish the situation that would still be necessary at the end of the term to know what is done and what is not done, so that citizens can be appraised or rewarded or punished by a particular political option. Through the responses of individual ministers, who usually started with a press conference and then ended up writing indefinitely, it is possible to draw one green thread or the content of the answers, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Liberal Democracy, the Democratic Party of Retired Persons and the ZLD are successful or that they must be rewarded for all their work, which is wrong. We regret that today's meeting has taken place, but we also attended the meeting at the National Party. If you have taken advantage of this option of all other political parties and if I use the term or content of the behaviour of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which puts only two parties or better said two, on the one hand, Prime Minister Toneto Ropa and on the other hand only one political party, Mr Janez Janša, on the other hand, we will also use our time in the National Party. We're gonna take 20 or 40 minutes as much as we own. But unlike all speakers, I hope to tell you what the purpose of the National Party is, first of all, the Prime Minister, individual ministers, representatives of the parliamentary groups. Taking advantage, if not of the other, of this television broadcast and of trying to tell people that the words that will be spoken will be extreme. Not by the National Party, by other political parties. Everyone will try to show the most wrong thing, whether it has the foundations of reality or not, it doesn't matter. The other side will try to demonstrate in any way those successes that do not matter whether they have occurred or have occurred in the heads of individual ministers or anyone else. In the National Party we will try to use this space, which belongs to us, these few minutes, which are shared among the four members of the Slovenian National Party, in contrast to the speakers in front of me and most likely from the speakers who will follow me, much more seriously than the proponents in writing their interpretation, where I have to say that we on the one hand support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusion that the interpretation is unrealistic. But why such a finding did not require excessive thinking. On the other hand, we expect the answers that will come from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be far more serious than the answers you have given to the interpretation. Allow me to touch individual ministers who, through television screens or newspapers, stressed their comments and convinced Slovenia and Slovenia, believe that not politics, in their right. The politicians we have actually been dealing with for the past four years do not believe that anyone can convince us of the success stories they give us in the first place, Minister of Economy, Mr Lahovnik, who talks about public debt and his words are taken away by Prime Minister Tone Rop, of course. Denial of public debt is a bit of a humiliation. Above all, by this time, you humiliate citizens and citizens. Whoever, whether from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or from this National Assembly, will minimize the problem of public debt, it is not worth sitting in a large meeting room or in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Public debt is still a problematic category that you should take seriously. And in your reply, Mr Minister, in the most oblivious way possible, you used the term public debt in the form that you told the Slovenians that Slovenia had reduced it. Please, do you think that everyone in Slovenia is so naive that we believe you that public debt has decreased? No, but since you are adept at adding a relationship to GDP, your words, of course, in that vague sense even hold. But why don't you tell the Slovenes and the Slovenes what is the essence of public debt. Let me draw your attention to this fact - the fact that this is what you do not use in your work - that in 1995 the average citizen or citizen enters the country, regardless of whether he is of age or of age, is in charge of cca. 420 thousand Slovenian tolars. Today, in 2004, the average citizen, regardless of his age, is either old or underage or was born yesterday, owes 910 000 Slovenian tolars. And this is not due for himself, because of his credit, but due to the actions of the executive branch of the government, because of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And how can you then present with some pride in your eyes that there is a public debt in the proportion of GDP - you always stress this at the same time - even though you are overreacting in the lowest way, I stress again, you are talking about the success of the macro economy in the area of public debt. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only this one, but also the one who will come to the government after this year's elections, should come from a realistic assumption that each Slovenian was in charge of much more than he was in charge of the former SFRJ, and this is a fear that I sincerely hope that the interpellationers also wanted to give it, but unfortunately they did not make it clear enough. All the other information you are operating with, Mr Lahovnik, regarding public debt, is modified, as your words around public debt have been adapted and as you are now laughing with Minister Maramor, because you obviously do not care what public debt means. When I'm in the presence of Minister Marble, and I'm not going to jump too much, I'm going to touch him too. Mr. Maramor, the finance minister for whom you described to us all his successful school careers and projects at the time of your appointment, of course, recognises the deficit in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But he approximately uses the same formula as Minister Lakhovnik before him, so he ignores it or his negative influence minimizes it. According to him, in response to the interpolation, with regard to claims that were around an ever-increasing public debt or, excuse me, deficit, the minister exclusively shows the culprits in three categories. First of all, I read from the Minister's response: "Terrorist 11 September attack on the United States of America." So Minister Maramor, Slovenian Minister, notes that the Slovenian deficit is responsible for the terrorist attack on the United States of America. The second category is the Argentine crisis. The Slovenian Minister for Finance notes that the reason for the deficit is, and this deficit we have constantly in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Argentine crisis. And that, even in the third category of his reply, he does not go into domestic situations, Minister Marble notes that the third element causing deficit in our own country is an attack on Iraq. At the same time, the Minister, in all of his knowledge, gives it to listeners, forgets or neglects the role of public finances in the consumer, i.e. the use of one of the determinants. Secondly, the great G is named in the "government" or government, the role of the government, this is the second determinant. And I as an investment. These are obviously pure strangers to you at your operational work, Mr. Marble. You cannot claim that the domestic economy, domestic public finances are affected solely by three factors, including, as I have already said, the Argentine crisis, the attack on Iraq and 11 September. While there is nothing to touch with regard to consumption in our country or to consumption. Of course, you forget to say that they taxed savings on your proposal. On the other hand, you do not talk in general about the country's role in interpolation, about the macroeconomic effects that the country should accept and implement, of course not only accept, in order to achieve certain macroeconomic effects. And the third time, investments. I'm not going to tell you what investments are because I believe you know that. But all the fundamental determinants of the domestic economy, of course, you consider and the culprit for the deficit, the deficit, the public finance, which is not a novelty, but it has appeared since we have the Tone of Robb, I apologize, the Liberal Democracy in Power, every year in worse form. If we take away your excuses, of course, where you're adjusting the deficit structure and always looking for a new culprit. The next emphasis you give, Minister Maramor, or Minister of Finance, or you point to your success story, is, of course, the privatisation of banks and insurance companies. Minister, here you claim that you are still quite successful that you have recently adopted a good plan, in the slogans, "privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank" and, finally, that the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in this mandate by this government was, of course, well carried out. In doing so, let me remind you that in 1994 a constitutional law was passed, a fundamental charter. At the time of the adoption of this Act, a decision was also adopted which referred to the future privatisation of the banking sector, as in 1994 citizens and citizens, and in particular politicians, were aware of the importance of ownership of banks, and in 1994 Mr Gaspari, the then Minister of Finance in this National Assembly, then in the old image, in the old Chamber, ensured that the privatisation of the banking sector would be required by law and is equally important if not more so that they will be citizens and citizens involved in the privatisation of the banking sector. In the meantime, Minister Gaspari became Governor of the National Bank and refused to hear more about the proposal he was advocating in 1994. This time, the government with President Toneth Robb, who was also a minister at the time, does not, of course, want to hear its own decision in this house. And who pulled the shortest? At the request of the Liberal Democracy, you sold the new Ljubljana Bank to foreigners at a price. In particular, for one quarter of the price, as much as the recovery from this title cost, the rehabilitation cost 400 billion Slovenian tolars. And here we are again in the story of public debt, which, among other things, the Minister of Economy has shown to be a success. At that time, a large part of the public debt was created because we saved banks from bonds, and where is now that you're selling banks, citizen participation, what you promised in 1994? Nowhere. In the National Party, of course, we argue that we should not boast of any achievements that are not. But it's very bad that you're showing negative moves as positive. I think it's even very rude. A few more ministers have responded to the proposed interpolation or what you are referring to as a balance of success. Among them, Mr Keber and very interesting is his claim that his results are impressive, but, of course, I will not stop because I think that this was probably a joke on his part, as well as Mr Bohinc, who we all find working together in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the only success that is likely to be attributed to him and will be attributed by history to Mr Bohinc, is what certain structures in the former Yugoslavia and in today's Slovenia needed to correct the NOB's course of action with a 60-year delay. I don't agree with them at all, and of course I will never. In less than 10 years you have managed to evaluate the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. If you are proud of this, I hope, these are not proud Slovenians and Slovenians, this is the balance sheet of your work, Mr Bohinc. In the 10 years you've been able to evaluate the independence of our country. In order not to list the ministers further, I will only touch Mr Kopač, who found after the austerity scheme had expired, that the national savings scheme was a mistake, because not at his ministry and not at the Ministry of Finance were unable to predict that a large amount of money would be released after the austerity scheme and that this would affect the price of real estate. In response to the interpolation, you wrote, Mr Kopač, that only now has it proved that the savings housing scheme could take place or should have taken place differently. You are, of course, neglecting that if the 85,000 citizens involved in such a government initiative do not get everything that was promised to them at the beginning, it does not matter, since there are almost 2 million more who will believe you this time. At the National Party, as Parliamentary Group leader Zmago Jelinčič said, we were against today's agenda because we are aware and think that it is only right that the interpretation itself will take place on election day. Let us leave this decision to citizens and citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to begin by expressing my disappointment, or even more, at the beginning of my dismay at Mr Jelinčič's debate, over the low level of political culture expressed by his contribution, over the inability of political discourse to contribute to the reputation of this House. In his debate there were so many untruths and so many lies that they were not worth serious comment. However, I would like to tell you that all the personnel procedures in the Ministry of the Interior have been carried out lawfully and in accordance with established rules and criteria. I will be pleased to take advantage of this opportunity for the news I have learned today that the Ministry of the Interior has, for the third time, also for 2003, received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors without reservation, and this includes, of course, a confirmation of the regularity of all human resources procedures in this regard. So that any flooding at the lower level of domestic obscenity is not worth commenting on. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make some additional comments on the other report on the areas related to the responsibilities of the ministry I am leading. First, something about the pay system and wage policy in the public sector. Unlike the critics assessed by the opposition in this area, I would assess this, as also stated in the government report, as an important achievement of the government during this period, from at least three perspectives. I believe that in the area of the establishment of a pay system in the public sector and in the area of the establishment of an additional collective pension scheme for more than 150,000 civil servants, this is an important achievement, even the victory of the social partnership – proof that in the current situation in Slovenia we can make important decisions concerning people together with trade union partners. And this has been done both in establishing the system, which means, by adopting the Wage System Act, with the supplementary pension scheme, as well as in setting up wage policy for 2004 and 2005, the wage policy, which is modern, partnered and which is an important factor in public financial stability. Thus, it will not hold what is stated in the interpretation that there is no sub-legislative regulation in this area. It's really different. I can read you the sub-laws that have been adopted in this area, but because you can do it yourself, let me just say that there are at least six of them and that there are three sub-legislative rules that have been drawn up for some time in coordination with the unions and both collective agreements for the public sector and collective agreements. We are in a period of time when we can expect to establish a transparent public sector-controlled wage system in the public sector, which will also address the imbalances that have arisen during the 1990s precisely because of the fact that individual sectors have competed with each other in the absence of a comprehensive legal framework that we now have, as Slovenia has for the first time since it is independent, when all 150 000 and more civil servants and all civil servants are included in the single public sector payment system. I think that this is an important achievement and also a good journey for those who will continue in this area. However, let me say that it is reliable after 2002 when the law was passed, no new imbalance has been established, but a system of overcoming these issues has been set up in a partnership manner. So much for that. I would like to say something else about the other two areas that are under my responsibility. Some justified criticism was also expressed here on account of backlogs in administrative proceedings. I accept these findings to some extent by supplementing that two years ago, aware of the excessive backlogs, we have adopted recovery programmes in all administrative units and have also encouraged such activities in all ministries. An important achievement of these programmes is that the number of administrative units with more than 5% backlogs has decreased significantly in these two years, from 32 to 18. You have this information written down and it's talkative and it's a witness that it's been able to reduce the backlog. A little surprising is the finding, of course not correct, that the accessibility of the administration is reduced for citizens and citizens. Let me provide you with information that after 2000, we have established, in cooperation with municipalities and, of course, administrative units, as many as 130 information offices and offices, local offices, which are important capillaries that lead closer to citizens and citizens who can perform over 40 administrative services that should otherwise be provided by administrative units. Here, of course, I can only thank the cooperation of the mayors of municipalities and, of course, the good will of all those in administrative units and the reasonable and responsible policy of the Ministry that we have managed to expand the network of administrative services. However, it is totally incomprehensible to draw the opposite conclusion that appears in the interpretation. So much for that. If you'll excuse me, it's been said today, despite the fact that the interpolation is not complemented by the issues deleted, some inaccuracies regarding such data. Those who want to see official data regarding deleted are available on the Ministry's home page. Those of you who haven't seen it, let me introduce you to them. 4.147 legal, I repeat, legal decisions were issued on the basis of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision alone and exclusively to those who had previously been authorised to stay in that country and to no one who had previously had such a permit, nor to anyone who had not actually lived in the Republic of Slovenia. I hear a whole bunch of misunderstandings about the heat. Let me say that there is an extremely small number of decisions that have been unengaged. Only in 29 cases, so less than 1% of the returned consignment has the mark that the person at this address is unknown or has travelled or has been relocated. This means that it will not hold that these decisions were issued to people who are no longer here who have left. In three cases, however, it is a sign that the house where the address is registered is broken, in four that the number does not exist, in four that such street does not exist, in nine that the address is defective and so on, in 14 cases that the addressee died. In short, there are few where the addressees in the address they have registered are not or are not staying there. Otherwise, you can see the details in this regard. And compensation. I would add something to what I had to explain repeatedly in public, but there are always new alarming numbers in this regard. There is not a single legal conviction in this regard in Slovenia today. Three court proceedings are pending before a court, before a court of justice, and no one has yet been legally judged. Seven pleas were dropped or disagreed with by the public defence on the ground that they were unfounded. And a few additional settlement proposals that we cannot consider to be a compensation claim. This means that alarming information in this regard has proved to be completely inaccurate. I advise those who deal with the fact that they would not continue to mislead the Slovenian public in this regard to summarize, however, according to experts who are familiar with the issue of the State's compensation claims in this regard, which say that it will be very difficult in court proceedings to prove illegality, that it will be very difficult to prove a causal link and that in the vast majority of cases there are also obsolete deadlines, the five-year absolute limitation period has also expired. That's how the profession in this area has already spoken. So much for that. And if you'll excuse me, two more comments are short. It was said here today that most of the CEOs of the Directorates-General have already been appointed in the tendering procedures. It just doesn't hold. He's holding the opposite. A few procedures are under way right now. Maybe only as many fingers as one hand. But it's a long way from 60 and something like that. That's just not how it works. I will take this opportunity to stress once again that the Slovenian police have been monitoring the whole of the Gulf of Piran since 1991, following a special agreement between the two police and, of course, in accordance with the 1992 Constitutional Charter, which is totally indisputable on this issue. Any other work in this regard would be contrary to the basic charter and I assure you that the Slovenian police are and will act to oversee the entire Bay of Piran. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Jerovšek, you will have your word. Master Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, I thought it was incredibly easy to think and I went alone to examine exactly what we wrote down. Did we really write something like you read? Of course we're not. You said that we wrote ourselves that the national housing scheme was a mistake. That was your claim. I will now read what it says on page 203: Through the co-investment projects of the Housing Fund with municipalities, the necessary conditions are also created to ensure a sufficient number of affordable dwellings intended for savers in the national housing savings scheme. The data relating to the savings scheme after which the savings in the scheme were made by the end of 200382.644 savings contracts, saved almost 65 billion dollars without taking into account the allocated premiums and the revalorisation and repayment of the savings, fully confirms the government concept of the scheme as a central instrument to promote savings. By no means, however, does it claim from the interpretation that the national housing savings scheme is the only model of housing care. This is what it says and explains more extensively how this is not true and how some other housing models are provided by the State. In doing so, I would just like to say that, for the last time in a press conference after the last meeting of the Housing Fund Supervisory Board, the national housing savings scheme will need to be changed, because the existing system where the bank has to pay back the premium if the saver does not take the housing loan, but some other loan and, of course, the bank has no influence, it has a disstimulating effect on the banks. Therefore, the interest in new schemes or for new agreements with the savers has either ceased or decreased. We will have to propose minor amendments to this law to Parliament if we are to keep this scheme alive in the future. And of course we intend to do that. However, so far the scheme has proved to be an excellent instrument to promote housing savings of 82,000 people. And I am sure that very many people will adequately address their housing problem by using credits from the National Housing Savings Scheme. However, in order not to raise the price of dwellings, we have, as you probably know, started building and buying commercial apartments ourselves and offering them to savers under the national housing savings scheme. And right now, by 15 September at the latest, we will be offering 852 apartments, mostly in Ljubljana, as well as in Isola or some other places, at promised low prices. Savers will be able to compete for them under the National Housing Savings Scheme, and young families with multiple children will have the advantage. Let me say that this offer of the Housing Fund has also in the past been an appropriate anchor, a price anchor on the market, which has prevented further price increases on the housing market. This was also the main purpose of this action, which we started already in 2001, in order to adequately prepare ourselves for an emerging scheme in 2004. We've worked hard on this for three years, and I think we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the Members and Members a word again. Davorin Tarchon gets his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say, this story of interpolation seems ironic to me from the very beginning. Interpellation is made due to non-compliance with the coalition contract. But it's being invested by non-committal MPs. The coalition contract after distinction is concluded by a coalition, a coalition party that summarises the programme that the parties have presented and gained confidence in the voters and which also determines how the coalition works. It also has an important technical part. If you were serious about interpolation, you should put interpolation primarily on the implementation of the decisions of the National Assembly and the legislation. Interpellation is an instrument of parliament towards the government. What you've done could be done by us, and we've estimated that we're satisfied with our own government. We know you're not. Interpellation is full of flat-rate assessments, uses partial data and even uses them. Interpellation is evident to the government the adoption of strategies in pre-election time. There is something wrong with the fact that the government has adopted the strategy. The strategy is a document, it can rule, it can be a parliamentary one that directs a particular policy. It's right that she dared to be optimistic. And in the end, one serious body must accept it. There's nothing wrong with that. It is also full of communication when it comes to the facts. Regionalism and centralism have been mentioned several times today. I also think that we have achieved some key results, such as joining the European Union, into NATO. We have entered among the 30 richest countries in the world, which we all know we have done little in this area of equal regional development in Slovenia. And here, gentlemen, you're very clever. The key to regionalisation of Slovenia, we have known this for a long time, is a change of constitution. And the change of constitution, the deletion or transformation of article 143 of the Constitution, you blocked, along with our former coalition partner, who, after 12 years, found out that he was not at home with us, and I think that if we hadn't found out that we would not have found out today, so that we have found, more precisely, that you are not at home with us, and that is why I would say that they are slightly offended. But if we are serious, and this Parliament is serious about regionalisation and coherent regional development, it will have to change the constitution and establish the provinces as a key engine for even regional development. When you talk about gross social product, when you compare us with the most developed members of the European Union, you compare relative indicators. When you compare us to more developed ones, absolutely. However, it is generally known that a country with a lower gross social product is easier to reach a higher relative rate and vice versa. So you're using the data the way it suits you at a certain point. You are reading our irregular relations with Croatia. Of course, I wonder what you're offering us. We are all interested in having relations with our neighbours and Croatia. All of us are in the interest of the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia. But what are you offering us? Is it possible that those boulder methods that we had recently received when someone alone with Balkan methods could stop traffic for hours and get it off the road without, especially foreigners, asking themselves what country we came to? Isn't it the country that has to regulate these relationships, not every individual? And that's some gunmen from, we know which options or sympathizers or whatever we want to name them. And here I would have joined myself, but Minister Bohintz would have asked why he had not acted before. That's the question. Who provoked, and you know it. Furthermore, you see the country's over-representation in the economy. You know, there are a number of countries of the former Eastern bloc that have joined us in entering the European Union. Of course, under the impression of the former system, they said we would change everything. They have won options that are similar to you, and today they find that they are no longer masters of their land, they have sold out the country. Is that what you want from us? This is for you to privatize. No, we argue, yes, privatisation is also necessary, but thoughtful and gradual, with an important role for the country. Of course, this is also what you associate with our clienteleism.If we were really that clienteleistic, then we should have an interest in privatizing this matter as soon as possible. To privatize this national wealth as soon as possible. Or you don't think it's strange that you're reading such contradictory things to us, but we're obviously doing our best. As far as clienteleism is concerned, for the first time, I would say that it is not true what you say, and for the second time in particular that you judge by yourself. In six months, when you came to power, you replaced everything you could possibly have. And that's how you imagine. This isn't customerism for you. I have to say, I'm only going to try a few cases, we could list them hugely, so we don't do that. You also mentioned the Constitutional Judges, and we all know that two former Constitutional Judges were ministers in your government. You mentioned hospitals and hospital directors in cases where you were comfortable. Remember Celje, remember Nova Gorica, for example, when “yours” were placed, they were not “ours”. Remember the police leadership at the end of the day, where we didn't rush through the door with the replacements on our noses, but it's a very sensitive matter. Here two ministers received arrogant statements in response to interpellation and political non-hygiene. You know, it's a matter of judgment. It can also be arrogant for me to bring the WD40 Ripper or Cleaner to the National Assembly. Read the instructions, "sensitivity to heat, inflammatory", maybe this will tell you something. Anyway, it's obvious that this is some perfidious, very perfidious pre-election campaign. It's not a classic election campaign when someone presents their program and says alternative solutions. It is a pre-election campaign that wants to bring politicians into politics, that they are all the same and that no matter who they elect, and that only those who are in favour of critics and loyal soldiers will come to the elections with some political options. For those who are proud of this country and even for the achievements of this country, politics will prevail. Of course, I am asked how they can trust someone who is used only to criticise, but when it comes to power, everything turns everything upside down; it is not for the benefit of the state or the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u60	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. Aloys Sok has a word to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about reality, and of course this reality is painful, so I am not surprised by the performance of my predecessor. I am very pleased with the debate by the Minister of Transport, Dr. Pavliha, who has actually given me a wonderful starting point. He said that the government had completed 50% of the road programme, and he pointed out that all the programs since 1995 on the basis of the construction of motorways had been adopted as unrealistic in the National Assembly. However, Minister, it is not your fault, of course, but the political option that you belong to has ruled since 1995 and the government since then and before that, except for a few months in 2000. This political option is in power all the time! It is not these Members sitting here today who are guilty of unrealistically adopted programmes, but some of them are also here today, some. And you said nicely, you built a little more than 50% of what you set up, or in ten years, half of what you would have to finish in Slovenia this year, in 2004, after the programme was adopted. But it's true that the price of the initial $6 million per kilometer, not 3 as you said, but it was planned for 6, today went up to almost $10 million. And it is also true that by 2035, through the impossible toll system we have, we will be paying for the policy that has been implemented in this area; many will be paying for it through tolls. This is reality, and this is the truth, and this is what we're talking about here today. I know these facts are hard to accept, but that's the reality. However, our voters and voters, citizens and citizens will assess whether this thanks, which we are listening to in all these days or weeks, is a real picture of the current situation, or whether we are really the most developed economic state of accessions, the new EU members. They will assess for themselves whether that 65 or 70,000 tolar net salary, as far as they get it per month, is really such a great success. They will assess for themselves whether it is time to wait for hours before the medical doors to come to order that I do not speak of waiting periods in the courts, the pensioners themselves will assess whether they have lost two and a half pensions during the last term of this ruling great coalition, which are bureaucratic obstacles today, if they want to settle and so on. We can convince each other here today, but don't worry, the citizens will decide. And of course it will come very quickly. But I would like to do so because time is very limited for us members of the opposition, but I would like to touch on the agricultural issues a little bit, because nothing has been said about this today. Not to waste unnecessary time, I will just read what I have prepared about it and how we see this situation in New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we note that Slovenian agriculture is not sufficiently prepared for the conditions of farming in the EU after entry into the EU, although we agree that in fact the negotiating opposition has been relatively well placed. Although we have linked almost all the elements of the common agricultural policy, it has not been done enough in the area of restructuring. In 1993, we adopted a strategy for the development of agriculture, in which we wrote that we will develop family farms in Slovenia, but practice shows that there are one word, and the other, of course, the facts implemented by governments under the leadership of Liberal Democracy. Our farms are on average four times smaller than EU farms. This is, of course, not only a problem of the agricultural ministry or of the current minister, who is his role in the performance a few months ago, but actually the problem of our entire economy, the whole government. For how to increase farms in Pomurje, if a parachutist in Mura, despite the praises that the Hungarian minority representative sang to the government, how to increase, but if they earn 65, 70,000 and need to survive, they need that piece of land that they then process this afternoon to survive at all. Complementary activities on farms, which are expected to become a major opportunity for Slovenian agriculture, are more exceptions than the rule. Indefiniteness and constant change in the rules and financial incompetence and monopolies have done their part in this area. In the role of restructuring in the current government, the Ministry of Agriculture has played a more or less role as a statistician, instead of a guide and a supporter of the family farm. The big problem that follows everything listed and is the cause of the neglected role of agriculture, however, is shown by the lack of knowledge in agriculture and the high average age of Slovenian farmers. This one's over 55 years old. Currently, only 15% of farmers under the age of 35 are in Slovenia. However, the age of 65 is even more than 20%. These are the data in the report on the state of agriculture Many farms are without a successor because young people do not see the future of agriculture and are thus envisaged in the coming years following our assessment of the decline. The poor agricultural situation is due to the fact that the deficit in trade in goods in the field of aviation agriculture is higher in the year. In 2002, it amounted to 331 billion, about 6% more than in 2001, and in 2003 it already amounted to 386 million euros, 5% more than in 2002. After 1997, the price-cost ratios in agriculture began to deteriorate. These relations have deteriorated significantly between 2000 and 2001, and the continuation of this trend is also reflected in data for 2002 and 2003. The price of retpromaterials rose rapidly during this period, with an average increase in retpromaterial prices of 140% at that time. On the other hand, prices of agricultural products decreased rapidly after 1996 due to mutual agreements and the free trade in agricultural products. The fall was varied over the years, most in 1998 and 1999, but of course it continued to continue at this time and the real fall in prices could not compensate even the subsidies that were to be at European Union level in 2007. For example, the price of wheat in 1995 was EUR 173.8 and in 2002 it was only EUR 131. If we include a subsidy of 54 000 SIT and take it that it goes about 6 tonnes per hectare, then we still get a deficit of about 4 euros per tonne. This means that the price of agricultural products is severely lagging behind at the increasing costs of repromaterials and inflation. Although the budget expenditure on agriculture is rising rapidly, so says the Minister, but the data on agricultural budgets shows that, for example, in 1992, we spent 8.4 billion SIT on agriculture, or 3.9% of that budget, which was 217 billion, and in 2003 we spent 57 billion or 4% of the budget, which was 1437 billion in 2003. This data shows that the percentage of the agricultural budget is not significantly more money than in 1992, but the overall difference is 0.1%. We are therefore relatively in the same place somewhere and speaking about what Mr Minister has also said that we are devoting twice as much in 2003 as in 1998, we need to see globally throughout the budget. The problem is that the whole budget has been so enormous all this time, but some of my predecessors have been talking about it. However, it is very surprising that development policy support has been declining since 1998. In 2001, it amounted to 4 billion, in 2002 it amounted to 2.8 billion, so we reduced it by more than 1 billion. Investment support and the restructuring of agriculture and the food industry have declined most. It was only in 2003 that funds for these purposes first increased and again reached the level of 1998 and 1999, when we earmarked more than 4 billion Slovenian Tolars for restructuring. In order to make things worse, nature has also done its part. In 2000, 2001 we were hit by drought, which was catastrophic in 2003, according to meteorologists, one of the most catastrophic for the last 50 years. The damage estimate is 31 billion. The Ministry expects to spend 9.8 billion on this, and to this point it has paid only 4.1 billion to the affected. In his first visit to Prekmurje, a government representative of the government promised two to help with the catastrophic drought in 2003. That's what I'm saying from the magnetogram. Firstly, the government will in the future arrange to help with natural disasters through the establishment of a mutual insurance company to help with natural disasters. Of course, nothing has been done about this mutual insurance company. And a second time. Prime Minister Rop also promised Prekmurci more investment in the construction of irrigation systems. This, of course, did not happen in any way either. Although you have passed a system law that is supposed to somehow regulate earthquakes in Posoča, storms such as the last storm in Slovenian Konjice, where damage is estimated at almost 3 billion Slovenian tolls, as well as damage in agriculture. But we can all see that this law is not being implemented or that it is too complicated and cannot work as such. Agriculture contributes less than 3% to the gross social product, but for rural areas where more than half of the population lives, it is of paramount importance. I'm not talking about the importance of maintaining a cultural landscape. We've talked about this a lot. In Slovenia, there are about 75% of agricultural areas that fall according to European criteria into more difficult processing areas. It also tells its own story and dictates its attitude towards agriculture. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the decline in the number of Slovenian farms for Slovenian rural areas and the preservation of the cultural landscape. In 1960, for example, we had 900 thousand hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia. Today, only 500 thousand more, which means that 400 thousand hectares have grown at that time. According to data, 8 farms will be shut down daily in Slovenia, which means 2 000 500 to 3 000 a year. Since agriculture is carrying out a very important communal activity, the question is, who will manage the countryside and what price will it be if there are no more farmers. Will we pay dear civil servants for these services to maintain what farmers are doing today? Taking into account the significant additional costs incurred by the requirements of adapting European Union legislation to the number of newly established red tape in the field of agriculture, I can conclude that Slovenian agriculture is in an increasingly difficult situation despite subsidies. It will be even more difficult because of the new form of taxation, i.e. taxation of subsidies which will enter into force with 1.1.2005. We anticipate in Novi Slovenija that there will be an increase in the decline in the Slovenian agricultural field due to the overcoming of the progressive income scale. Let me finish. It is essential that we also regulate regional development policy differently for rural development in addition to agriculture. This does not give any results at this time. Let me mention just one point; when you say that development differences do not increase. They are increasing greatly, and it is even more painful for young people to leave the countryside, and they do not get jobs there, they leave, and we are speedingly building homes for old people in the country during the time of this government, where we will obviously provide people who will be abandoned and left alone. I was talking about roads, so I wouldn't anymore, although it's a very important question for the even, economic development of Slovenia. Let me just say two more things. In his reply, Minister Kopač cited the new laws adopted by the Ministry. They've really been accepted. I think it's too much. He's one of those, like, who he bragged about, the law on the protection of house buyers. But you know, Mr. Secretary, marriage itself means nothing. In the Zbilski Gaj affair, things are still where they were. There is still the fact that you issued a building permit before the municipal contributions were paid. It's still true that it's black in there. However, if the Supreme Judge in the Republic of Slovenia is building in black, why not actually do it there. It is still true that those who have paid, with the exception of some individuals, possibly members of the LDS, have not reached their homes and, of course, it is still true that the operators did not receive part of their work paid. And the question is, how many of them are going to go bankrupt. Only the building law, because my colleague Rokavec has already talked about it. I think that the property tax law through this building law in Slovenia has already been enforced, at least as regards real estate. On the basis of this law, which was proposed by the Ministry and adopted by the ruling coalition, the new congregations have enormously burdened the property, especially the unwalled building land. I can tell you that in our congregation, some people have to pay for more than 100,000, and this for unwalled building land that they have never proposed and can not sell, because there is actually no interest in buying these properties with us. If we had them in Ljubljana, then maybe more. Let me just say one more thing for the end. I have mentioned this several times before that Mr Gaber may also apply for the floor. Once again, I would like to draw attention to what we can read in the media, that it is actually going on during his ministry for the extraordinary politicisation of education, that no principal can be appointed without his consent. Just yesterday in Pomurska Vestalnik, I read again about the problems of appointing a principal at Kapel primary school. The teaching assembly and the parents want one person and the minister wants another. Of course, I cannot view this as politicalisation and the Minister's involvement in solving this problem. Let me finish and then I'll finish. I would like to thank the TV Slovenia, which today broadcasts this extraordinary meeting on interpretation. I would also like to thank you for yesterday's report on the presentation of the New Slovenia electoral programme. They've given us 20 seconds of it, without saying a word. While the meeting was held, the ruling coalitions on Ptuj were shown both in the Reflections and in the First Diary, with a word and a picture. Thank you so much for such a balanced political media space.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u62	Thank you, colleague Sok. The Minister of Justice wanted a word. Will you discuss it now? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. I am responding to the indications of interpretation for the field of justice. And I'm just gonna start by law school, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u64	It can be louder, Madam Secretary, because it's not heard from back there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u65	Yes [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] that, according to my assessment, the interpolation is not justified and that the government has fulfilled all the obligations it has set, and even more. [[...]] I will begin in the manner recommended by Mr Pece, not from my ministerial head, but from your heads. In the normative area, it was you who, on the basis of the government's professional proposals, adopted a number of laws in the field of justice. Let me remind you of the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Notariat, the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Public Prosecutions, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the amendment of these laws and the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code, the Law of Labour and Social Courts. In short, if you look at the coalition treaty, much more has been done than has been laid down, all with the aim of giving justice the right tool in hand, in order to accomplish its task as much as possible. You've done another task with the government, and that's in the field of human resources. You have recruited judges, allowing the justice of 70 new judges during this term of office. The rest was carried out by the Government in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office, where it has its powers. So much for that. I think you'll agree that the tasks here are complete. The further task was to provide budgetary resources for the functioning and to enable that urgent informationisation and other modern working methods. Everything possible has been done in this area as well. Information is fully completed, in the prosecution, in the criminal courts. If you also remember lately, an e-book, a cadastral, access to judgments, a register of companies is electronic. It would be too much to say, I think you're familiar with it. With regard to logistics, those conditions for work that are urgently needed in order to be done, I must say that at the Ministry of Justice we have carefully assessed this, found that many new spaces have been acquired, updated, that they were not only electronic devices, but also equipment and other updates. For example, with one figure, 7,400 square metres of new space was made available to the judiciary in this mandate. I think this is what we can express our satisfaction that the government has listened to the needs of the judiciary. The Labour and Social Courts Act, which you have also adopted, has modernised the work in this area and has allowed for faster action. At this point, I must express my view that the transfer of concrete cases from our judicial work does not in any way create a real picture in our citizens. For example, if we exclude one case, such as Mr Janša yesterday at the Target, and he said that one work dispute had not been concluded for six years, it would seem as if the courts did not in fact judge that it was just one case and that it was so bad. Yeah, some of them take too long, so we've got backlogs. Some, however, are resolved very quickly, they are not discussed, because satisfied citizens do not go to the phone and express their satisfaction over the success of the process, but always those who are not satisfied with the decision come forward. I can tell you that in 2003 the courts issued 106,000 and several other judgments. The courts are working, the decisions are falling. In order for the public to be aware of this, of course, it can also learn from statistics obtained every six months by the Ministry of Justice to monitor the effectiveness of the work in this area and determine what further steps can be taken to reduce the backlog. The criteria for the scope of work, the so-called standards, are also, the meetings were with the chairpersons and your legislation has given me more control, more opportunities to influence the regularity, legality and timeliness of resolution. All of this has been done even more, which cannot be said in a short time. However, the objective that has been set has not been achieved - the judicial backlog has not been resolved. And I must say, the judicial backlogs can only be abolished by the judiciary; they can't be ruled, they can't be done by the minister, they can't be done by the Members, they can't be done by the citizens. All those I listed, including other judicial institutions, lawyers, notaries, enforcers, can help to make the judiciary function better so that the backlogs can be removed faster, and they must be removed by the judiciary alone. It is not possible to impose such a responsibility on the Government to be responsible for judicial backlogs. This is not the government's responsibility and should be seen in the way I said it. Of course, in layman's terms, it is thought that other institutions are also involved in the long term of the trials. And just today, yesterday, and it's always the thesis that the prosecution is to blame for the backlogs. Let's see what the opposition champion said yesterday, which is the institution most responsible for the backlog: the prosecution. Now let's see where the DA works. The D.A. only works in criminal matters. Civil area, enforcement, economic disputes, labour disputes, administrative disputes, these are all areas where the prosecutor is not even present. And such a claim is indeed misleading and ignorance of the situation, which is unjustifiable. See, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, every year the State Prosecutor's Office sends an annual report stating how much was done, how much was not done, and where things are. And it is clear from these reports that the State Prosecutor's Office is without hindrance, that it is running and that it is not an institution that would constitute a barrier in this system. And if the state prosecutor's office were not modernly organised and would not be working alternative methods, settlement, delayed prosecution, criminal prosecution, today would have 3,000 more cases of judicial backlog than we have. I would like you to read this to yourselves, because if you are saying something that is not in line with what you wrote, but you have not protested, then it means two: either you are telling the truth or you are not doing your job well, because you are not reading the data that you should have. This is the grace that I pronounce in the name of the justice, for I have not yet experienced that the judgment of you is as disrespectful as you are to the judgment. Ownership – every year has been property data since 1999, since I was alone as chairman of the prosecution, and this year it has been given to the government on 251 pages. If we read this, we'd know exactly how many things were going on today. There were 489 of them, many more of them, because the accused and the actions were more, they were partly judged, partly not; they remained in the field of the agency. However, the Agency was the one who, in addition to criminal justice, ensured that this country received the money that had been misallocated on privatisation. The damage mentioned today is absolutely not true, not true. Why don't you read these reports to the end, and you'll see it's true. And there's something else I need to say. No one was incarcerated today for possession. As long as Orion's and Zbilsky's grove are safe and sound, we haven't done anything. In our country, it's not the government that's closing. In our country, only a court can pass a prison sentence. As long as this government is in power, it will. If you may be in power, you will introduce something else, just to tell you that the holy rule of each legal state is that the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are strictly separate and respect each other. In this sense, I would like it to be like this in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Stanislav Brenčič gets the floor for his debate. Please. Can you turn off the microphone? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Interpellation on government work [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u68	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u69	At least as far as the term of the entire term of this term of reference of the National Assembly is concerned, I am also indirectly concerned as a member of the government coalition until recently - this is said to be a government coalition under the control of the majority party of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. [[...]] As a result of this, I have no special burdens, for in my work I have always been guided by the meaning of my own life, to work honestly and truly for the benefit of others, for the sake of all of us and for the vision of the country of Slovenia, with a special feeling for a small man. Many good government projects took place during the period of the 7-year co-existence of the Slovenian People's Party through laws, through the accession of the state budget, and through individual government measures, and have also made good use of our active role in this. Also, on the basis of our perseverance and activity, something has been prevented for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia negatively set up, unilateral projects or intentions by each government partner. However, there are things that have happened within the government, and the Slovenian People's Party regrettably, despite the commitment arising from our political programme, it has not been possible to influence or enforce its arguments, such as in the War Cemetery Act, the Income Act, including in the Labour Relations Act, and there are a number of similar cases. My efforts and efforts have been more intensive in the areas of labour law, social affairs, family policy, disability and health care and the economic sector. I am pleased and pleased that many efforts have been successful, only to mention the area of family policy, if statistics tell us that there is no change in the demographic picture and that other measures that have not yet been set up in this government on the scale of family policy will be necessary to improve this situation, and that the family will be placed at the heart of the overall social and public situation. I can say that we have been quite successful in the field of disability as a client and personally, and I am sure that many persons with disabilities are satisfied with this mandate. However, the successful efforts have also been made especially when the Prime Minister's hearing and therefore the ruling Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as well as the individual department of the conduct of a genuine partnership dialogue and the authenticity of the proper exchange of arguments, were heard. Regrettably, in the second part of this mandate, under the Prime Minister's Master of Robb, it has been less and less and more and too uncritical of the over-popular way of presenting the government's approaches and individual government resources in solving such and different social problems and in implementing for the benefit of the state of Slovenia as a whole the necessary measures to create greater prosperity and a more clear and optimistic sense of all generations, which, if nothing else, must offer people at least some new hope and more internal peace, which is a condition for reducing negative developments in society that are not small. We cannot help but overlook the fact that in our people it is simply growing year after year more and more internal tensions, which have such and different endings. Such an approach or way of managing the government was not, at least for me, encouraging and unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party as a result of its political programme. In my view, it is precisely in the fact that such government management is responsible for some poorly imposed or even non-implemented emergency measures and projects. In that sense, it is certainly justified for the Government to make a statement of poor work in the field of health care, specifically for the non-implementation of the National Health Programme adopted in the National Assembly by 2004 and thus associated accession to the health care reform, the so-called 'white book'. When the Prime Minister introduced himself as an exclusive in at least two budgetary memorandums, also as the starting point of his mandate at a coalition meeting in Brdo, this project served as a great project of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for at least two elections, but of this project, which is necessary, twice necessary, remained apart from the rhetorical words of Minister Dr. Kebra and general confusion in the financial field too. The situation in the healthcare system is, among other things, much more serious to the public-financial sense than it appears from the accession of the government, which I can peacefully claim is not genuine. As in the health reform, the Government of the Masters of the Republic of Slovenia has also passed the exam. As a weakness or an obvious to the government, and even more to the ruling party of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because the Prime Minister is also its President, which we have not been able to influence as partners, there is also an unsupervised deepening of the abnormal gap between the rich and the poor, or if you want to disrupt the value system and thereby a drastic deterioration of the moral concept of our society. For example, it should indicate what individual management looks like in large economic operators, where even the country has a majority share. There are many such cases. A simple manager manages as the first person in the company through his company and his income is also 30 times the working salary, and as the director of his company has a relatively small salary and a country, healthcare, pension insurance, pays a relatively small contribution. But his receipt is 30 wages to his employee. The creation of a system of connected persons, through which more or less times of public life are controlled in one chain, is increasingly important. In particular within the public sector and related to it through the Presidents of the administrations and supervisory boards of all relevant institutions. This approach, which is largely dominated by government, has a negative impact on the release of people's initiatives, on the release of potentials that are in people and, last but not least, poor control and liberate corruption. In this regard, it is also my view to seek all the more than a positive approach from the government in housing policy, where we record a negligible fund of rental apartments and consequently highly-designated rentals that practically prevent the resolution of the housing problem to young people. This, in my opinion, is an important factor in the measure to improve the demographic picture of our country. I would just like to draw attention to one more fact or nothing of the government's incentive, which I have pointed out several times in the structure of the spending of the state budget. This is where spending for the public sector is growing too much year after year, in this regard also for the public administration. And the number of net contributors in the state budget is constantly decreasing. This is just the real sector. This makes no sense how much of the State budget, only if we take the year 2003 or the financial year 2004, is spent on a whole range of contractual services provided to a large extent by citizens or public servants or employees in the public sector through their DOs. Most of this should be done at work, so they are employed in the public sector and paid through the state budget wage system. As a result, wage burdens are increasing, net wages, especially in the intensive sectors, are becoming extremely low and employers' competitiveness is at great risk. Not to say where this will lead from the point of view of ensuring social transfers both in social security, pension and health insurance. In the absence of this trend, there will certainly be drastic measures that will have to be carried out by any government as soon as possible. Voters and voters, mainly for the conclusion, respected colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government, can say that it is the electors and voters who will assess in a good month how they trust us all, given our work. With this, too, the work of the existing government, and I am sure that they will not be fooled by such a playful smile and will bring a change to the country under the Alps or say that it is as it is, everything is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you, colleague Brenčič. France Tsukati is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. First, if you allow, a note, a replica of Minister Cerarjev saying that judicial backlogs are a problem of the judiciary, only judges can remove the backlogs. This is where politics doesn't interfere with the judiciary. I must say, the Minister of Health is a little more honest. Doctors also treat the patient independently, no one interferes with their work, in the diagnosis, in the setting up of therapy, in the performance of surgery, but the minister is so honest that he doesn't say, "Yes, waiting days are a matter of doctors, we can't do anything here, because waiting periods as waiting periods are a matter of organization of work, are a matter of policy, are the matter of the one responsible for public services. That's the government. And I'm sorry, Madam Minister, your position reminds me of one who is capable of taking any high-end city, but is not capable of taking his own, on his shoulders the minimum responsibility associated with this service. Otherwise, go back to the Minister of Health, as long as my time permits. As I said, in the introduction, the Minister of Health responded to our interpretation by saying, "The answer to these criticisms is to present information on the health status of citizens of Slovenia and to develop health care in this mandate." Very nice. And he himself says publicly that the results are impressive. And where are those parade horses that the minister refers to? I'll go after his answer, just fly by alone. A waiting period first. Indeed, Minister Keber, waiting periods for the operation of the grey cloud have decreased by 8% in one year, for open-heart operations by 50% and for CT by 22%. I have the latest results, the July 2004 analysis, where there is also a comparison with 2003. However, waiting periods for magnetic resonance increased in one year by 26%, for mammography in one year by 32%, for hernia surgery in Slovenia by 23%, for gallstone surgery by 56%, for coronation by 33%, for spinal surgery and other orthopaedic surgery by 94%, waiting periods were extended in one year in Slovenia. Gentlemen, this is the data. If we stop talking only about gray clouds and things like that, then the picture is slightly different. And another issue is how waiting periods are registered: like unemployed people, it's by mutilated data collection. If you go to a dentist today, see a dentist and say, "I'd like to make a bridge, please, I'd like to sign up." Your doctor will tell you, "Yes, but we only take new orders after the new year." By the new year, you're not in the record, there's no waiting period. The second parade horse referred to by the minister is a new payment in hospitals in case of joint cases. This is one of the few matters that the Minister has taken into account in the National Health Programme, which he said in 2000, I quote: "The hospital funding system will change in the direction of payments in cases." In fact, this is one of the very rare requirements of the national programme, which the Minister has taken into account and worked in this direction. In the short table published on the Internet, there are seven other requirements under the national programme, which the Minister has not noticed. About the rate of hospitalization. Of course, the minister is acting like the number of admissions to the hospital has dropped. It lists only cases from 1992 to 2002. I have statistics since 1985, where it is quite clear that between 1985 and 2000, the rate of hospitalisation is constant, 300,000 to 315 000 cases per year, and 10 to 15,000 cases per year. Sometimes up, sometimes down. It continues to act on its success in the case of the average lying age, which has decreased in recent years. The statistics of the average lying age from 1985 to today speak of a constant linear decline, from 1985, as clearly recorded, at the time it was 10.7 days, today is 6 days. It's a linear fall, and there were a lot of ministers in between, and a lot of, I don't know, anything. It is a reduction of waiting periods based on modern technologies that allow many things to be diagnosed and treated in the short term. One more thing I would like to mention, in this thorough record, including the life expectancy, is very nice, but this life span has been growing for 20 years, again linearly throughout all periods, even in the age of communism has been growing, just as it is today. I don't know, you can't say it's that success, so to speak, impressive results. These aren't impressive results. And, of course, the known behavior that the alcohol law has resulted in, it is said, the alcohol restriction law has also dropped the number of deaths in traffic accidents accompanied by alcohol. The number of alcohol-related deaths has been declining steadily since 2001; it has been declining since then, but it has been stagnant since 2001. However, the law was adopted in 2003, so it is a matter of some kind of talk, which, excuse me, I cannot say otherwise, is unbelievably, somewhat misleading. Certainly, someone who is also a doctor should not boast of such information and not interpret it in that way. Another interesting praise here, with which the minister boasts, was that the budget allocated to the Ministry of Health raised 134% from 2000 to 2004 from 7.3 billion to 17.1 billion. Whether the efficiency of the ministry has also grown in these years with a factor of 2.34, you can decide for yourself. However, the expensive state and the bountiful administration are not an honor to this government, or I do not know, they are obvious. There are many other things, but time does not allow me because my colleagues warn me. However, in the government's response, there is so much misleading information, gentlemen, that it would be - I don't know, I would be ashamed to defend such answers in your place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u72	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, who has already applied for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u73	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Perhaps I have a good point in the previous performance by Mr Tsukati, who says that the right debate is such that we need to explain why the pedestrian died at the pedestrian crossing and that we are guilty of it, but we cannot say if we have reduced the number of pedestrians who died in traffic. I think that this is a typical process that we hear today: if anything has happened to improve, it is certainly not for the government to do so. But if anything is wrong with this society — and this government has never hidden that, even if it wants to work well, it will remain in this society today and for the future, much will be done. And we will continue to work and change things to make them better. But let me use the case used by Member Sugar symbolically, "response to the deceased on the road," to say that it is true, even on the roads, to say that it is true, even on the roads we have fewer dead in this mandate. We have said in our reply that we have not boasted about any thing and said that it is the government that is responsible, that many entities are responsible, in the end, for many things in health, including citizens themselves. And that is what we have written very clearly in our part of the answer. If we have a 10-year-old unchanged, Mr Tsukati, the number of deaths or at least since 2001, as you claim, the unchanged number of deaths due to alcohol, 11% fewer deaths last year, of course, this can be a coincidence. But it could be a trend. Let me talk about other trends. In this country, it is not possible to increase the life expectancy worldwide. We are one year closer to the average in the European Union. Can we explain this by what you read to this government and the ministry, that health care is a mess, that no one knows what he's doing? We're improving the health system. People live longer and healthier. Not counting other data that we don't attribute to ourselves. Maybe they happened on their own. Maybe they don't need governments at all, because events are going well without it. The number of deaths from heart disease has decreased by 30% in the last ten years, one third of them in this mandate. The same applies to strokes. Same goes for suicide. For the first time in history, the number of deaths from lung cancer among men and these things could still be listed. I'm not saying we're responsible for this. However, I argue that the citizens of this country and the citizens, as far as health is concerned, the rest of my ministerial colleagues have said other things, live better and longer. It is very interesting that what is obvious to every citizen, what we have done in the field of waiting periods, is so markedly minimized or defamed that you are uncreditable. In 2000, at the beginning of the mandate, there were tens of thousands of operations per year in the country, where the largest waiting years, heart and blood vessels, orthopaedic operations, were at the beginning of the mandate. After all, there is a large, full Congressional market of people per year. This year there will be 20,000, two Congressional markets of people will suffer less. We do not claim that they are not yet waiting, we do not claim to be satisfied with this, but twice as many people achieve this as they did four years ago. We're proud of that, if you're not, of course we're sorry. You say that we are needlessly boasting about the increase in investment or the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Health, and we have also said many times in this House that this money is about increasing investment in health. Three times we have increased investment funds; in the last year, eight billion are investments; in this mandate, we have completed 18 investments. Let me remind you that we are finishing this year by mentioning the most important Cancer Institute, that we have completed two psychiatric clinic buildings, and the psychiatric department of Maribor Hospital, gynecologically in Murski Sobota, in New Town and so on. We also invested in equipment at this time. You're saying the system isn't effective. In this House, at the time of the previous interpolation, we have proven, and also, of course, that with the effects that we have introduced at this time, from the shortening of waiting periods, from the allocation of funds, from the central coordination of purchases, from the strict regulation of the prices of medicinal products at the annual level, we save at least ten billion. It's a modest assessment. We're spending less money than we spent on the same purchases four years ago. And if, because I too have a duty to spend some time or the right time with my colleagues who will come forward, I end up with reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform is under way. The reform takes place in efficiency, with greater accessibility, with quality, does not take place where we have and know the reasons, the greatest opposition, this is in solidarity, what I think is the difference between you and us: how we view future financing of the health system, how we view solidarity and how rights from compulsory health insurance should be paid. You say we encourage you, we politicize you when we assess your four-year moaning, that there is too little privacy between health care providers, that we do not support voluntary insurance, that your immediate reactions when one of the private insurance companies is lost, and your carelessness when that same insurance company has the biggest profits in the country. We believe that you are clearly telling voters what you will do: encroach on the public system, reduce or make Spartan rights and leave the rest of the rights to be paid by citizens themselves. Let the proof be the program I read from the main opposition party on the Internet. This opposition party claims that if it wins, it will target 8.2% of the social product for health care. Let me say, today we have 9.1% of the social product. So it means that the citizens are promised a reduction of more than 10%, with all the rights, all the improvements and so on. I don't know if it's your ignorance, but I don't think it's possible. Because you also report through everything else what citizens must fear, that also because of how you predict redistribution in taxes to the poor and in favour of the rich, I do not think it is a coincidence that it is not a mistake for ignorant lawmakers, but it is a far-reaching change that you do not want to name with the right name, but rather a more market, more privacy and less rights in the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u74	Thank you, Dr. Dushan Keber. I would like to take the floor and invite President Frantz Ferri Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After reading the material called interpolation and listening to this debate for a few hours now, it is increasingly clear to me that the actual candidates for the interpolation did not take it seriously when they wrote it and when they defend it. This debate reminds me more and more of the bad pre-election meeting you brought us into the situation that is taking place in the Assembly premises. I think that the college was doing very well yesterday when it halved the time required to discuss 30 hours and several minutes, almost 31 hours, at 16 hours and 38 minutes, and I am very afraid that this time is lost and could be used more usefully for any other subject, to deal with any law or anything else that would be more useful and necessary for citizens and citizens of this country. If this debate has at least a minor impact on citizens and citizens, the elections will be easier to decide on, for whom to vote, then that will be good, at least some result. However, I fear that this debate will turn them away from going to the elections at all, and that we are doing a poor service not only to the national assembly and its legitimacy and meaning, but in fact to the state and to citizens and citizens. See, interpellation has provisions in the Constitution and also in the Rules of Procedure that define its objective and also the rules on how it takes place and how it is dealt with in the National Assembly. The main objective is to propose a replacement of the government or conclusions on how to improve the government's work. In view of the way this interpolation has been prepared, flat-rate, uncompromised, unprofessionally, how this debate is taking place here today and, above all, the fact that the treatment of these interpolations takes place a month and a few days before the elections shows that the purpose of this interpolation is not that, because it does not make sense what the main objective is, the main purpose of the interpolation. This is also evidenced by the fact that the interpolators do not propose a law enforcement decision. I don't know if they're going to propose it after this debate. Secondly, it is obvious that this interpellation serves as an electoral campaign, as cheap an election campaign as possible, TV and media encounters in the Assembly premises, which costs nothing, of course, the space and time of the media must be paid to the parties. However, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that there are also written laws, rules of the parties and rules of the media that carry out pre-election campaign activities. And there is also a legal restriction that it is not allowed to be used for the electoral campaign of the state authorities, their premises and their installations, and in particular the institutions of the state authorities. The National Assembly is also one of these bodies. And obviously this is about the abuse of this institution for pre-election activity, a pre-election campaign. If this practice continued, we would go into very dangerous waters, which are not the case, as I know the European situation and in recent days I have been particularly intensely interested in whether there is something going on that interpellation one month before or a month before the elections. I have not noticed the case of this happening anywhere in Europe, nor in the United States. I therefore think it would be useful to examine the proposal put forward by my colleague Diaca, and also some other proposals have recently been made that in the new call of the National Assembly, I hope that there will be so much understanding and responsibility to define, either in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or in some other acts, that the Government will prepare a report for a four-year term, although it is preparing regular reports and also other reports sent to Parliament, usually together with the draft budget, but there is no time to deal with this report thoroughly, and that such a discussion will, say, end the mandate there before parliamentary holidays. That might make sense. And now, just one more specific question, because although I intended to talk about some of the economic issues and unfounded, unreasonable, unprofessional statements, these obvious ministers have argued that there is no need to lose words further, even if there is any further argument to be found, let's say from the practice of the European Union that we have become a member of. But there's only one question I'd like to mention, and there's one thing I'd like to talk about in particular. The question of an unwarranted statement on the budget deficit. The Minister of Finance responded very exactally. With numbers, he proved that this deficit is not problematic, that it is not too high compared to other countries. However, I would like to draw attention to something that you have implicitly or explicitly advocated in the obvious government and coalition. In fact, when you say that the promise or forecast has not been fulfilled, that we will have a full budget deficit or at least a balanced budget. To defend such a thesis, colleagues and colleagues, I'm deeply certain that I don't know whether you're doing this knowingly or out of ignorance, is harmful. If the government and the coalition were to implement such a policy, but this would be confirmed by the National Assembly, this would in fact deny economic development and social development. To prove this, let me just say what is going on in the European Union around the so-called Stability and Growth Pact. He spoke to his colleague, Dr. Bayuk, about the famous eco-fin, which deals with this very issue within the European Union. The countries that proposed the criteria and rules years ago, including the Maastricht criteria for the budgetary deficit, for example, the most powerful economies in this European Union, Germany, France, are among other countries, increasingly in violation of these rules. Not only do they violate them, although these rules are sanctioned not only by acts of the European Union, but sanctions can also be enforced through the European Court of Justice. We see that all the talk about these sanctions is ineffective to the European Commission, as well as to the European Parliament, and that it finally went to what had to happen sooner or later, to discuss the revision of the Stability Pact, which will virtually mean a loosening of the criteria or too low ceilings for the budgetary deficit, which is significantly higher in these countries than in our case. And a few words on the topic of regional policy, where I have to say that it is necessary, not because of the objectivity and correctness of the readings, anyone here, the government, ministers, ministers, but because of ourselves, to find out where the reasons are, that the situation is as it is, and that it is not satisfactory. I also agree that it is not satisfactory. And those of you who have been in this National Assembly for a long time, I am the third term, 12 years, probably had not been a year to speak critically about regional policy as one of the weaker parts of Slovenian development and economic policy, whether I was in coalition or opposition. But let's look at the reasons. And here we have to set up a mirror, not play ping-pong or throw up guilt on each other. Why? For the first time, it should be noted that in no mandate so far in Slovenia alone has been so designed for more coherent regional development than has been done in this mandate. Evidence of this is a substantial increase in funds. I am not saying that there are enough in the budget - and that if we add more funds to the European Union, there have never been so many resources, not only in absolute terms, but in relative terms, compared to the volume of the budget and gross domestic product. All these years we have had far too little resources for this purpose compared to other countries to which we can and must compare ourselves. Secondly, a special area has been established and there is a minister covering this area. Thirdly, a number of programming documents, programmes, projects at national, regional and local level without programmes have been prepared, and this has also been one of the reasons why we have failed to make good use of domestic resources and, in particular, that we have failed to make use of or obtain more resources from the European Union. This will be even more important in the future. Furthermore, organisation has been set up to develop and make better use of EU funds and use of domestic resources. I am not saying that this organisation is ideal, we have talked about it many times, we have been critical, but without this organisation it is simply not possible and the Union requires it. If we are objective, the results are not realistic to be expected in a year or two or overnight, but it is necessary to acknowledge that if we look at the data or look around around our country, especially in less developed areas, such as my Pomurje, then there is visible progress every day. New business zones, industrial zones, new establishments, new jobs and so on are emerging. Of course, more needs to be done. However, I must now tell my colleagues and colleagues, mainly from the opposition and your interpellationers. First of all, I am surprised by the criticisms made by colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party, the party that covered the area of transport with its ministers, directly in charge of more coherent regional development, directly for regional policy in the former Ministry of Economic Relations and Development, which is very important for more coherent regional development, not to mention agriculture, rural development and so on, and could also mention. I don't know if it's a short memory that it's forgotten who covered and led these departments, whether it's a ruse. And still. I am particularly surprised by the surprising criticism of centralism from the opposition's colleagues, from all the opposition parties, we have heard this several times today. I also agree that we have too much centralism in Slovenia. But let us ask ourselves the reasons and, above all, ask yourself how much you have contributed to the fact that this centralism is as big, administrative and, of course, as a result, economic as it is. A few days ago, even one of the ambassadors and diplomats were cautious in their statement, from one of the neighbouring friendly countries, saying that you are an over-centralised country, and the big mistake is that you have no regional organisation. And, colleagues and colleagues, you must admit that in all these years, even in this mandate, you have taken the most stand for it, or I can even say that you have blocked regionalisation in order to achieve regional organisation, you have blocked the change of constitution at this point and secretly or with a fig in your pocket to prevent or even prevent the establishment of provinces. Although some of you have said here and there that you are for the provinces, but then there have been a lot of reasons and even concrete behaviour here in this House that the provinces have not come to pass that we do not yet have them. And in my opinion, not for political reasons, for some legal reasons, but mainly for development reasons, we need regional organisation. It is true that the Union has never formally laid this down formally as a condition for the use and acquisition of funds, but in the informal talks they have openly stated that this is one of Slovenia's faults or, rather, we should be aware that if we want to effectively prepare good bigger projects, if we want to carry out larger projects, such as infrastructure, environmental projects, tourism projects, etc., if we want to have effective cooperation with neighbouring countries and regions, even outside neighbouring countries, then our small municipalities are not capable of doing so. To a certain extent yes, but effective cooperation does not. We're unikam. Let's take a look at the neighboring countries. There is no country that would not otherwise have organised such or other regional organisations. Of the thefts, the lands, the provinces, and I don't know what they're called, the counties, but between the municipalities and the central state they have an intermediate rate. Not to have more bureaucracy, but to ensure more efficient governance of the country and, above all, more efficient development, including in relation to the European Union. Let me just remember at the end of this and I will end it, although we do not like to talk often or even mockingly about the past, as if everything had been wrong in the past and that everything is ideal today. Colleagues and colleagues! Remember that we have had polycentric development, which is evidenced by this, in those years when the policy of polycentric development was implemented, we have ensured a reduction of differences in Slovenia, including the reduction of unemployment differences or in employment. And that at that time many successful companies were created outside the traditional centres, and that this certainly, in addition to economic and social development, also contributed to the smoother landing in Slovenia and to the independence of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u76	Thank you very much. No, no, no, no. Wait. [[...]] No, I won't admit the replica. You'll get your turn, and you'll be [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[...]] Good. Comrade Tuck, replica, short. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Allow me, however, to correct the statement made by Minister Keber regarding the fact that they want to maintain 9.2% of the gross social income for health care, which we reduce to 8.2% in our programme. In fact, on page 109, the minister wrote in his reply that these 2.14% of the gross social income for health care included direct payments or payments from the pocket. In our programme, we do not include direct payments from the pocket, but only taxes and additional health insurance, because we believe that if patients pay taxes and additional insurance, they do not need to build the healthcare system on additional payments from their pocket. That's why our number is smaller because it doesn't include direct payments from the pocket. That's the only difference and I'm asking you to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u79	I have to explain. The Member merely confirmed that he intended to reduce the total budget for health because I was wondering who would then pay about 1% of the money he was paying out of his pocket today. Let me add that, at the same time, this party predicts that it will also forgive the poorest people until payment, by the way, that is what we have requested, but we have never promised it at an unaltered rate of contribution. In short, this party promises honey and milk, reducing health money by 8%, everything will be in the public system, everything will be better than today, in particular everything will be better than it is under this authority, but it will certainly be 10 or 15% of the money for health care will be less. Let me also mention that I will also replicate that none of what a fellow Member has said about waiting periods, which have been extended in some cases, is true. It may have notifications from its fellow Members from the Clinical Centre, but this is not based on state statistics.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word You do not have the right to a replica, you were not appointed, but you will be in your turn soon. [[...]] But you will be on your turn soon, and you will be able to explain everything, Comrade Podobnik. Please. But he didn't name you personally. And we know what we've considered for four years as a replica. I wouldn't want to resign this time at the last session. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. One minute and 55 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u81	All we're experiencing is proof that the interpellation, whether we want it or not, is unfortunately here. The Slovenian national party did not want it, not in this form nor in this content nor here today. The Slovenian national party metaphorically implemented it for 4 years. And alerted us to the things and events that we hear today. And here's the sum. Both colleagues, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti and Mr Sašo Pece have embarked on one segment, another political definition. And I'll only say the following at this time. The Slovenian national party did not run into either the hearing, nor the content it offered, and not the respect it would deserve. But the truth is next, whatever the case. The foreign policy, especially in relation to neighbouring Croatia, was not only bad, but in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party humiliating to the Slovenian people. That's a fact, and that's true. The Ministry of the Interior, particularly on the issue of deleted, was not only negligent to the referendum will of the Slovenian people, but also, according to the Slovenian National Party, unconstitutional and illegal. Thirdly, corruption, clientism and suspected places were confirmed by the prosecution’s investigation — an irrefutable fact. Fourthly, the rights of workers have been proven to be disregarded. The legal location of ten self-appointed new entrepreneurs or managers is also legally and publicly proven. Unfortunately, no one listens, no one respects – and this has brought us where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u82	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. My colleague Dusan Vukko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today we are considering an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by SDS and Nova Slovenije. It's fine and fine if we talk about interpolation in the way our constitutional order foresees. Interpellation is intended to exercise the government's political responsibility vis-à-vis Parliament, in the event that Parliament considers that it does not carry out its work in accordance with the law. What are we actually dealing with today? What SDS and Nova Slovenija have invested is, in my opinion, a disability interpolation. What is understandable is that their intention was not to vote on the non-trust of the government as envisaged by the Constitution, but to forgive this institution, more than apparently misused for pre-election purposes. So today it is not an interpretation of the work of the government, but it is the last so-called Ardenian offensive of SDS and New Slovenia, which attempts to show voters and voters just before the elections how this government, this coalition is unsuccessful, destructive for Slovenia, while the SDS, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party are all-powerful and resilient. So it is not an interpolation, but an assessment of the opposition, whether this coalition and this government have fulfilled their agenda, their vision, their predictions. This assessment is an entirely legitimate right of the opposition, as is the right of the position to reject these assessments. There is therefore no dispute on this issue. What matters is what is true — whether it is what the evaluators say — and whether it is true what the evaluators say is true. Unfortunately, instead of the reasoned criticism of the government's work, we have heard a lot of false truths, half-truths, misleading claims and flat-rate evaluations that are not taking a serious professional opinion. Increasingly, today's interpolation appears to have been born to meet the needs of the opposition after a free appearance in front of television cameras, which is not so wrong in fact. No one denies that this coalition has not given itself a difficult task before its term of office, but without a vision there is no development and no goals, and there are no results without work. I agree that this coalition has not accomplished everything, this is life itself, but, I am very sure, it has done a great deal of work. What is most important to me is that this government has achieved good results in those areas that have a direct impact on the well-being and quality of life of all citizens and citizens. We have already heard today, we have a good, stable economic growth, we have a much lower inflation than we had years ago, we have a low rate of unemployment; it is smaller than in the European Union. The standard of living of Slovenes and Slovenes has increased, whether we recognize it or not. We have extended the range of beneficiaries for social assistance and have increased, more people and young people are going to school, we are in Europe, we are at the border with Austria and Italy no longer need to pay customs, etc. They also know this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, but this is not important to them at the moment. It is more important for them to build their story on this than, for example, that we did not achieve the economic growth announced two years ago on the basis of entirely different assumptions, without saying that the situation in the world and in Europe has changed significantly. I'm sorry, I think it's "la carte." In this sense, in this tone, we can only wait for the obvious that the government has not done everything to avoid the irritation of oil in world markets, which dictates a rise in gas prices in Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, let me finally ask you, if you will allow me one question, I will ask it myself several times. "Have you managed in your past life to realize everything you have set out, planned, predicted, and thus promised yourself?" If your answer is absolutely yes, I apologize, you lie to yourself and, as in this case, "God help you".
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u84	Thank you. A colleague, Janez Spožnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u85	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin my performance, which will not be, I hope, too long, with a brief replica of the esteemed Ferius Horvath, president of the National Assembly. I remembered his statement in the sense that he was surprised that the members of the Slovenian People's Party saw as a bad result of the government's work in the field of coherent regional development, when they were still responsible for coherent regional development with some of their departments. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. Ministers of Transport, Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Justice in accordance with the applicable Government and other powers have not been responsible for coordinating in this field of work. She tried, ma'am. Kovacova, she's worked hard. Unfortunately, she didn't make it to the parliament of her marriage. It was her political defeat that failed. But I would like to be corrected that Dr Senjur, who is under the previous mandate, this mandate - this is not the subject of this interpretation - has successfully pursued the concept of regional development and also the law. However, if we are talking about responsibility and merit, it is necessary to say so, and I will say it again today. Mag. But when he negotiated in the European Union in two functions, two mandates, which amounted to some money from the European rural development funds, he brought to Slovenia, which was a concrete contribution to coherent regional development. And one more thing. There is too much distrust of the municipality in the current Slovenian government. Dear Prime Minister and ministers, trust the congregations more, you won't miss. Whoever accepts municipalities, municipal mayors, municipal councils for partners, this is a good politician, he is a good official. Shares with them the responsibility for the future of the country and the nation. I'd like to touch three of these in my performance. Just one sentence. With one sentence, and I am glad that he was touched by a respected colleague of Brenčič. The government responded very extensively when it gave its development report, saying nothing about Slovenian national affairs. Maybe it would be good if you wrote three sentences. Slovenian national reconciliation remains one of the fundamental ethical principles and also the awareness of Slovenian politics. And I am sure that Slovenian politicians will be fully obliged to do so. The second area is related to foreign policy. If I am not mistaken, there was not much of it in the interpretation, but the government has also dealt with this issue very schematicly, very carefully. In two areas, however, I have reservations: regional cooperation, here I would expect the government to write down that one of the strategic foreign policy directions of the Slovenian State is to take part in the European Union rules in such a euro region in which the whole of Slovenia, the whole Slovenian territory, will be. And to support the establishment of such a euro area in Slovenia. I missed that. And on page 352, when the government is talking about Slovenians around the world, the office for Slovenians in place and around the world, here the government should self-critically admit that even because the government has not supported it has not adopted legislation for Slovenians outside Slovenia. It's an obligation to do so. And I'm sorry it wasn't like that. The law was rejected in the National Assembly. There were two attempts, I signed them both. Unfortunately, both governments had a negative view. It's a shame we didn't adopt this law. And that's why, and now I'm going to go to the third area. This is family policy as well as public policy. If I am pleased at this debate in the national assembly at the time of interpretation, I am also pleased because we are finally talking openly and directly about some trends that are worrying about demographic trends. Policy is generally seen as a rule that those who bring bad news are not well received among people. People want good news and good news, people want optimism, beautiful words. But this is one of those areas where we step into the sphere of responsibility. Responsible politicians must recognise that demographic trends in Slovenia are worrying. These trends cannot be reversed either by the opposition or by one party in the opposition, not only by the government, but, of course, a very important national consensus must be formed here. When I read this part of the government’s response in particular, it is necessary to perform in the same way as my colleague Brenčič. Much has been done in this area, including in this mandate and in the previous ones. But let's ask ourselves, how is it that, despite this, demographic trends continue to be worrying? This is also a political issue. When I was paying attention to a small segment of civil policy, I would say here that, as a political gesture that I would attach to it, I would accept the direction of the government, which would say, the present or any other, with the mechanisms we have, we would support the return of Slovenians living in the world, including other or third generations, to Slovenia with their young families. This should be the first step of public policy. This is what I missed in the text of the government coalition, and this will be a project that we will support all the parties in Parliament. And the law on Slovenians around the world also had a field of repatriation. I'm afraid we didn't accept it. This is a major political commitment to the next term. I predict that we will most likely adopt this law in the first year of our coming term of office. This is a political commitment to a new reference. And now I would have touched on family politics. Some colleagues have already discussed this in more detail. Dr. Dimovski talked about it, too. Here, in fact, I would come up with a principle called how to add some new measures with the measures in force, some new solutions. Family policy is a sensitive matter. It should allow young families and young people and couples to decide on different forms. No forced action, but a great choice. The first issue, the first child, with the mechanisms that we have at our disposal, let us encourage the earliest possible decision-making for the first child. Let us motivate students to complete their studies as soon as possible, not to extend their study time through student work instruments and thus delay the decision to give birth to the first child. Here are important measures for the financial security of young families and then it is a key decision for another child. The competitiveness of parents in the labour market is important here. How? We've got some, but maybe a few more. The amount of the employer's contributions to the employee's pension and disability insurance should depend on the number of children maintained by the individual and be progressive here. Let us further encourage employers to employ parents. Especially the mother. Even after the parental leave. Let us encourage employers to hire parents with reduced working hours. Something's already been done. Maybe there's still a chance. With regard to the promotion of another child, the issue of residence is also very important. It's about housing policy. Non-profit rent for young families must depend on the number of children. We suggest that the status of the young family be extended at the time of the birth of each next child. Which means that the family would be considered a young family until the beginning of the youngest child's education, not just until the beginning of the oldest schooling. And then incentives in different forms for the third, fourth, and more. We've done a lot of things here. It's a relief for more numerous families. It's a children's allowance. Affiliate benefits. Progressive scales. Subsidisation of purchases. And vacations, and so on. I am sure that in this area the country can do even more with the mechanisms it has. Better care and help mothers in distress is important. There's something that Mr. Secretary has already said about this. I would like to mention another sensitive area called equality of all children. Whether they're going to kindergarten or they're taking care of each other at home. The existing child allowance scheme, which adds 20% of the value to the amount of the child allowance for children not in public education, is simply too small compared with the assistance of the State and also the child protection municipalities for parents who have children in public education. It is therefore necessary to ensure that subsidised amounts are comparable for children in public education and for children not included in them, at least to some extent. In Slovenia there are about 90,000 non-school children, one of whose parents has already taken maternity leave or leave for child care. Of these, about 65,000 go to kindergarten, and 25 thousand take care mostly of their home, their parents, their private babysitters, and so on. We suggest that we find a way to add a larger supplement to those children who are protected at home. One possible solution is to account for this as an additive to the child supplement. Now they get about 1,000 to 2,000 tolars a month. That's a substantial understatement. I have listed some concrete proposals on a very important segment of the government report, which is family and also protection policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u86	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Dr. Dimitrij Rupel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u87	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, ministers, ministers! Allow me to begin by thanking Parliament. I would like to commend the Slovenian Parliament. In Slovenia Parliament is chosen and rarely the scene of pluralism. In the Slovenian Parliament, pluralism does not mean the same or the same, but it does mean diversity. There are people, groups and parties who are different here. We had the same pluralism of policies once before, when parliamentary democracy was still banned, it was then called pluralism of self-government interests. I commend the Slovenian Parliament, I want to say that true pluralism in Slovenia is less. That's what I was paying attention to when I was reading the government's response to the interpretation. In the chapter they wrote at the Ministry of Culture, which talks about the media, there is actually a talk about pluralism of one and the same. Media pluralism doesn't mean media is more than media. It means they're different. And the government is not responsible for the same thing anymore, but for more different ones. There is no pluralism if the same analysts and commentators publish the same polls in several media. Why don't we have competitive public research? In short, pluralism is still a rare asset to us, and I wanted to draw attention to this Parliament and to the criticism of the government. This, of course, could be repeated for many areas, this is true, for example, for government human resources policy. In fact, it is not a good human resources policy that gives priority to people from the same party, but to those who care about the proper representation of all parties, and in particular to professionalism. We all know that expertise cannot succeed if it is politically or politically controlled. RTV journalists, if you read the law on the wage system in the public sector, are public servants, which means that they can be politically controlled, which of course is not good. I could also refer to productivity in terms of achievements in the economy, culture and diplomacy, where there is no competition where there is no equal opportunity for all, there is no progress. This is the main problem of Slovenia today, according to my judgment. I find it interesting that the government does not talk about pluralism in itself, because in 2000 the government was still made up of pluralism. Today, there are virtually only two parties in it, who otherwise represent themselves as lions, and they are not. The LDS today is certainly not a liberal party, it can prove this in a seminar paper every student of mine, not just a student of Minister Marble. The LDS and the United List carried out internal cleansing at the time of the reign and during that time, in order to make them even more equal to each other and each other. Of course, the government no longer has SLS, which was to some extent the marriage of pluralism in this government. As I said at the press conference on 17 August, the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs answer questions that no one has asked about foreign policy. This raises new questions, such as the importance of answers that do not answer questions. Of course, I do not expect an answer to this question; the government's answer in the current composition is probably not capable. When it comes to being truthful, it should be answered that such conduct is characteristic of a policy that does not need questions at all, a policy that is not prepared to answer questions, a policy that speaks rather than listen to itself, which is not ready for dialogue and who knows all the answers in advance. Such policies are especially remembered by those we have experienced on our skin, from the 1970s and 1980s, when we have not yet had parliamentary democracy and we have not yet had a multilateral system. With regard to foreign policy at a time that is the subject of interpretation, I must, of course, congratulate the government. During the period 2000-2004, Slovenian foreign policy focused on major projects and there were no significant errors in this area. I didn't say there was no problem with that. If I simplify it a little bit, I would say that Slovenian foreign policy was successful despite many obstacles that existed in the government itself and in the ruling LDS party. Fortunately for us and unfortunately for those who produced obstacles, Slovenian foreign policy was set before Anton Rop took over the government, and it was also impossible to spoil it, thanks to the former foreign minister, even though there were many attempts. After all, they have been in the Slovenian government – this was the government in the government – for a year and a half trying to suspend the foreign minister, stop the current foreign policy and prevent the success of the biggest foreign policy projects. When I talk about the government in the government, I repeat the syntagma that I used when one of the government offices, and with him the prosecutor, who was then a secret member of the government in the government and today an official member of the government, persecuted me for the initiative to set up a diplomatic academy in Slovenia. In fact, there were different governments between 2000 and 2004, and let me refresh your memory. At first, there was an elected government run by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, which also included SLS alongside LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Then there was the first Robbery government, which could also be called the Drnovsk government without Drnovsk, Čokova and Bavčar. In this other government, the government of the government, which consisted of a circle of Rob's trustees, was formed by elected members of the LDS, i.e. a government without an external minister, without an SLS, and without the United List and DeSUS. Since then – and this was the third government – this third government has recently created this new, true government of Rob, where some old and tried party personnel have emerged and from which they have expelled all disturbing or disobedient elements. The government is no longer in the government, but the government has taken over the government. Maybe it's really embarrassing to listen, and I've been through a lot before I got this diagnosis. Slovenia's foreign policy was therefore fine, even though it was fine despite the government's obstacles and pressures. Recently, however, the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made some unpleasant mistakes, which will be a burden for the future government and for all those who will deal with Slovenian foreign policy in the future. I hope that this government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not make too many mistakes before the elections, especially with regard to human resources policy and relations with Croatia. Let me tell you something about these relationships. The Slovenian-Croatian misunderstandings originate from Yugoslavia or are generally related to the breakdown of the SFRJ. The cause of these misunderstandings cannot be resolved; Yugoslavia cannot be awakened to life; this is an extremely important conclusion. Some do not pay attention to this conclusion, but others may want to awaken the SFRJ. The awakening of Yugoslavia and the disregard for the origin of Slovenian-Croatian complications, which is true of the breakup of Yugoslavia, have led to many of the wrong answers and will be expected. That is why I have recently proposed that, following the example of the Slovenian-Italian and Slovenian-Austrian Commission of Historians and Lawyers, we establish a Slovenian-Croatian historical legal commission to review, in peace and with the help of appropriate analytical tools, the period between 1918 and 1991, when Slovenians and Croats lived in such or different Yugoslavia. The border issues are, of course, delicate because they are linked to the territory of the country, to the settlements and to their inhabitants. The territorial issue and issues of national sovereignty are the main national issues and cannot therefore be dealt with quickly and improvised. Both countries have written in their constitutional and constitutional instruments that the borders of the countries will be the same as those of the Republic under the SFRY. It follows from these documents that the border does not need and cannot be placed or amended, but that it is necessary to formalise, regulate and maintain regimes on them, along with them, etc. One of the main questions - there is a lot of talk today - but not the only question, one of the main issues but not the only question is the maritime border that has not been raised so far. There was no limit to that SFRJ. To solve it, we have to give cause to the roots of this absence. This limit cannot be established according to established rules, according to history or even unilaterally, but it needs to be renegotiated. Remember, the Drnovšek - Račan agreement was an attempt at such an agreement. See, Croatia has repeatedly declared its intention to determine the maritime boundary unilaterally, referring to international instruments, conventions and laws. It has done the same with regard to the exclusively economic or protected ecological and fishing zone. However, decisions generally require the cooperation of other parties, the opposite, the affected parties. If Croatia wants to become a member of the European Union, it cannot set its own maritime borders with Italy and Slovenia. The fact is that the maritime border between the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, Italy has never been established. All we know from the constitutional documents is that it has to be as far as the SFRY was, and we know once again that it cannot be the same, because its breakdown has changed some of the essential facts. Let's see. First time. In the SFRY, of course, all the republics that bordered the Adriatic Sea say their organisations and residents, citizens, all and the same maritime rights, which are otherwise characteristic of maritime states. Another time. All the practical dimensions of these rights are matters of agreement and international agreements that can be reached in different ways. The Drnovšek - Račan Agreement, remember, many of you - this has happened in this term, from which we are saying good-bye - we have waited for the agreement in July 2001 and this was the minimum for Slovenia. Worse Slovenia will probably never accept, let's say, a better one. If we were to renegotiate, we should achieve something better and even Slovenia would have the moral right to say that the offer has expired, that we are no longer satisfied with it. I do not know how such statements or such thinking would be accepted on the other hand. We're here at the point of confrontation. The question is whether to solve problems through confrontation or to try to overcome them with partnership or alliance. This is a question for the Foreign Minister, for this government, these days. Whether we're going to confront each other or we're going to try to overcome it in some way that is common among modern nations. In history, Slovenians and Croats cooperated and helped each other. So we were allies, not enemies or opponents. This must be properly documented by the Commission, which I spoke about earlier and which would be worth setting up. We don't have that kind of documentation yet. If she finds out that we were traditional allies, anyone who wants to achieve anything else will be contrary to tradition. The one who wants to achieve this will be contrary to history. It might be worth exploring in more detail how the definition of the republican borders in Yugoslavia was. This history could have searched the family about that famous border, about Kardel and Bakarič, who were supposed to set the border on Dragonja. It is necessary to record the acquisitions of World War II. The so-called acquisitions of World War II, after which Yugoslavia or Slovenia returned a large part of Slovenian ethnic territory, although many Slovenians remained outside of it. The user of these acquisitions should be investigated. We will see again that this was neither Slovenia nor Croatia, but Yugoslavia. For example, Yugoslavia did not receive either Slovenian Trieste or Slovenian Gorica, but it received Croatian Rijeka and Croatian Zadar. However, this was not a problem in the common country. The success of Croatia was also Slovenia's success and vice versa. At the time of Yugoslavia, Croats had a border with Italy and Austria. Although this border was managed by Slovenians on behalf of the Yugoslav authorities. However, what was Slovenian was also Croatian. And vice versa. Slovenians and Croats will be united again in the European Union in a few years. Therefore, these problems will become less burdensome after some major emotional stress after the breakup of the SFRJ. The political basis of most of the debates on the state border was, and it must also remain, in my opinion that Croatia wants to have a maritime border with Italy, so say, which in some ways impedes Slovenia and Slovenia wants to maintain territorial contact with international waters, which in some way impedes Croatia. Dear Member, Members, the problem of the breakdown of the SFRY cannot be solved. This government has not been able to save him, and the future government is unlikely to save him, nor should it try to save him. But this decay, or historical fact, must be dealt with. In doing so, Slovenians and Croats can be stuck in a situation without profit, or we can both get something. The question is whether we will deal with problems together with Slovenians and Croats or with each other and with each other. The profit position, "win-win situation", as it is said, means that Slovenia does something for Croatia and Croatia does something for Slovenia. In other words, Slovenia cannot and cannot solve the problem of the breakdown of the SFRJ at the expense of Croatia, and Croatia cannot do so at the expense of Slovenia. I imagine that once the historical and legal commission has finished its work, this is the Commission that I propose to draw up a list of all issues, problems and also financial assessment of its weight, each country would contribute a corresponding agreed share of the burdens or costs. In doing so, we should not forget that Slovenia does not have major foreign policy problems. Since there are major foreign policy problems with the EU, NATO has already solved them, while Croatia has such major problems. She still has problems that Slovenia has already solved. These problems can be solved by Croatia alone with the help of Slovenia, with the help of someone else, without understanding Slovenia or anyone else, and I will not continue. When it joined the EU, Slovenia had to adopt European standards in many areas, which was not easy for it. She had to give up on a number of customs and principles that some skeptics have been defending, that it was a matter of national interest. Today, Slovenia does not act directly on behalf of its national interest with regard to border issues with Croatia, but on behalf of European interests, and this is also the point where they meet and reconcile with each other the Slovenian and Croatian national interests. Croatia will have to go through the same school that Slovenia graduated from. I suggested, unfortunately, that Slovenia offer a strategic partnership to Croatia without adequate support. Maybe it's time for that, or he'll be in the polls. Following the example of some other countries, such as Scandinavian or Central European countries. I have recently called relations between Slovenia and Croatia an unbreakable friendship, which means two. I have also seen that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has somehow rejected such a way of defining such relations, which I regret this unrelenting friendship means two things to be perfectly clear. So that we could not give up friendship lightly, but friendship would not hinder us from being consistent, principled in our interests. I think it is high time for a new round of fair, relaxed, productive relations between Slovenia and Croatia in the future. I think that if the government has more time, it should work in this direction and that it should be aware that this is what was well placed in the previous mandate. I am not a major critic of the foreign policy of the former government. Why, I suppose, there is no secret, but I felt that I had to draw attention to some things that the government is not aware of at this moment, which is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u88	Thank you, Dr. Rupel. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ivo Wygl, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This point that Dr. Rupel gave me has somehow embarrassed me, because he would also be embarrassed if I had to criticize my work for the last three and a half years or four. And I would be equally embarrassed to criticize this same work, because I have been involved in this work and many of these projects, which we consider to be successful years of Slovenian foreign policy, I consider to be a successful part of my professional career as a Slovenian diplomat. Since I don't like controversy because of the controversy, I have to say that Dr. Rupl and I agree on a whole series of things unconditionally, because sometimes we discuss and agree on some things. Maybe some things are formulated differently, maybe we're working differently. I am not inclined to do this and a few quotes from my definitions of relations with Croatia - and I apologize because I too will remain most in relations with Croatia, although I think there are other things of foreign policy that should be discussed. Most of these quotes of mine speak of the need to talk to the neighbouring country. Talk calmly, patiently, and build good relationships. And for that reason, I do not speak and think it goes wrong if we speak in a warm, hot way, if we break once with our left hand, what we built with our right hand, if we once radically threaten neighbors, and the second we try to prepare it to actually be in the same boat, and that we have the same interests and that we need to solve open problems in an understanding. I think that I have overcome this, including this debate by Dr. Ruple, by bridging those questions or answering questions that have been or have not been asked. Today, new questions have been raised and all the questions raised by Mr Podobnik, which have been posed by the mag, are mainly raised. Petty Officer, they are referring exactly to relations with Croatia. I took note of these questions and also noted how I am going to answer them. We are in the balance sheet that is being addressed by interpolation and which is not, in fact, has not critically touched the field of external matters; in this balance sheet we have, as Dr Rupel said, a major open problem, these are irregular relations with one of our neighbours. During that time, we settled our relations with our other neighbour, Austria, and there were a lot of open issues that we agreed on. However, we have not regulated our relations with Croatia, and in fact I agree with this, we have not created any new problem in our relations with Croatia at this time, nor since we have created a single country. We are dealing with the problems that have arisen since the collapse of the common country, after the breakup of Yugoslavia. And, of course, we will not revive Yugoslavia in order to resolve these issues. They need to be negotiated, and all these issues have their well - known names. They're called sea borders, they're called a final agreement on land borders. They are referred to as the issues that we are addressing in the context of successful negotiations, the issue of the Ljubljana Bank, the issue that is known, is the issue of the Trinity Summit. And more or less, we have dealt with these issues, which are constantly emerging as those that burden our relations and which lead to temptation, to verbally radicalise relations and to speak patiently and with a view to the future rather than as good neighbours with a common European perspective and common interests. I think that at this point, when it comes to the issue of boundaries at all and borders at sea, we must not fall into the temptation to hit the gong and descend into the spiral of verbal tightening. The latest was launched by Croatian President Mesic in his statement that the border on land is final and that we only need to agree on a maritime border. The Croatian side, I think, raised entirely unnecessary controversy by reference to the Badinter Commission, whose opinion is, of course, totally incontrovertible and in the context in which we are today discussing the border at sea and why it has not been implemented and carried out to the place a very good negotiated agreement Drnovšek-Račan. The Badinter Commission's opinion doesn't play any role. I agree that the Drnovšek-Račan agreement was the government's achievement during this period and, of course, I would like the foreign ministry to have more role in this agreement, but the agreement bears the name of the two signatories who negotiated this agreement with their co-workers. I also think that in this area we will find it difficult to find any alternative to this agreement quickly. This agreement is a document that at some point the governments of Slovenia and Croatia have been able to objectively assess the perspective of their relations, take into account each other's interests and also take into account the argument that both sides have put on the table. It may not have been a coincidence that the agreement expressed excruciating dissatisfaction on both sides. This is the nature of a difficult compromise and compromise has been difficult and painful for both our and the Croatian sides. Unfortunately, I do not think that the agreement and its preparation has been sufficiently prepared from the point of view of this general public and parliamentary parties, and so on, which should have adopted and endorsed such a delicate and difficult agreement. However, this matter is now at the point where we need to focus on solving other issues. After all, we have managed to agree with Croatia on more than 40 agreements dealing with certain bilateral issues, and I think there are still many such issues where we can draw closer to positions where we can negotiate and prove that we want to be good neighbours. I also think that we have been taught by this summer storm in the Gulf of Piran and the fragility of what I have said to the Olympic peace, that it is essential that both sides stick to the agreement on preventing incidents, that incidents not only prevent but also that an incident-related way of solving or enforcing resolution is also actively preventing and taking responsibility for this. And it also seems very important to me that in this game we also have all the time responsible factors of both countries; here I am thinking mainly of the police who communicate with each other and prevent real incidents and possible incidents in the Gulf of Piran. It does not seem to me that today is a time, nor does anyone want us to open this issue more deeply and wider in some historical and international dimensions. It is certain that the border issue is the source of a number of problems both at the personal level, for example, of the people living in the area and who are experiencing the practical consequences of an unfinished border. Here, of course, I also think of fishermen and Slovenian fishermen, who are in fact very few, and for them the problem is great, and we should come from the fact that it is also a rescue, precisely because it is a small number of people. Whether we can always suggest to Croatia or even threaten it with what you, Dr. Rupel, did in Portorož when you spoke about one of the 25 keys we have for their entry into the European Union is, of course, a profound question to me. I think that the threat is a bad consultant and that if we talk about Croatian entry into the European Union and negotiations, then we can say that negotiations are the moment and the opportunity to resolve in some positive spirit a bilateral open question and that we are the Europe with which Croatia talks. However, I do not think that a good school is a threat because, on the other hand, it does not increase the willingness to compromise. Mr Podobnik, I would like to answer another question that you have asked about regional cooperation. I think - and here I have also consulted with colleagues from the government - that it is difficult to support the idea that only Slovenia, as a single region, is a suitable partner for regional cooperation. Slovenia would be a suitable partner and probably even more flexible partner and would have easier access to the various structural funds in the European Union if we had regions and one region connected in its own space, another in its own space, perhaps the third in its own space. It is also a question of whether Ljubljana should be a centre after this or a region; I think this is always a matter of agreement between partners, who need to find their own interest in this and we need to agree on that. This is not a dogma or something that would in itself bring an advantage. That's what I'd like to say about the Slovenian law around the world. I have already pointed out in my presentation here that I think it is a shame that this law has not been passed and that it is necessary and that it will necessarily be one of the first projects after the elections. I assure you that the personal and the party I belong to, that we will be happy to cooperate in shaping the law with which we will achieve what you have been talking about - some integration and reintegration of Slovenians around the world and also the protection of Slovenian ethnic minorities, which I also think is one of the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Rupel's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u91	With regard to the problem of the euro area. The idea of Slovenia being divided into different parts connecting to parts of other countries is extremely unfair, so I would never suggest that we wait for these divisions and that we bind it to the regional development of Slovenia. I think that the idea of Slovenia as a whole, which is supposed to be part of European integration, because the second option is to divide Slovenia into an Italian, Austrian, Hungarian, Croatian zone and this poses a great threat and a great challenge for the future integrity of Slovenia. For this reason, of course, I think it would be good to discuss the euro area with Slovenia as a whole, I would say, as an integral part of it, but provided, of course, that Slovenia is the centre of this euro area and that it is the centre of this euro area in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u92	The word is from a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's. In doing so, I apologize to him for skipping him for changing the order of the speakers, but I can see that he raises his hand to his colleague Janš. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u93	Not a replica, on behalf of the motioners, I would like to answer to the Foreign Minister. Mr Wigel, since you took over this resort, the Slovenian government cannot boast of any foreign policy initiative. At that time, you rejected two who were given by the opposition and civil society; one referred to this historical commission proposed by Dr. Rupel, the other on a proposal which went towards finding a solution to the initiatives given by others. Although this case is not new, it has been updated in recent months. Mr Illy again, about a month ago, offered a euro area in which Trieste would be the center. There would be Furlania-Julian landscape and Slovenia to the Rapal border. There was no response from the Slovenian government. This proposal to establish a euro area where Slovenia as a whole is present, and perhaps then the country of Istria, the Austrian Koroška, is a counter-initiative that advocates our Slovenian interest in this area, where we have entered and where those who have the initiative always gain the advantage. On the part of the Slovenian government, it is easy as if there were no such ideas. This isn't about some things that are going to happen overnight, but it's about some direction of development. We are in a place where the euro regions will be a slow fact. And I really want to know what your position is: Are you in favour of going to some region of Slovenia as a whole, or are others cutting Slovenia into different regions? There was no definition, no initiative, just a more nonchalant rejection, just like that historic commission. You haven't identified yourself today. You're in some kind of interview. I wonder if that's a good idea or not, and if not - why, because no one here loses on this matter. I was also, I must say, very uncomfortablely surprised by your interpretation of the position or by the statement we repeated several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that Slovenia has one of the 25 keys that opens the door to Croatia in the EU and to NATO. I want to know why you're defending these keys, why you're not ready to use the arguments that we got in our hands after joining the EU and NATO. It is clear that we will use these keys in a European way; it is said that we will require Croatia to meet the same criteria for joining the EU and NATO as we had to. That's the European key. And interpreting this view as if we're threatening someone is ridiculous. Then Brussels threatens us when he says we must meet these criteria. They're essentially negotiating points. In this way, it is said, without initiative, by rejecting proposals that are constructive and with some fearful marriage, if, and we must not even mention that we have any better negotiating positions now that we are in the EU and NATO, we will not come anywhere. Croatia takes advantage of everything it can to protect its national interests and we will take advantage of everything, of course in a European way, and you, as if you are afraid of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u94	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u95	Very short. I assure you that I have no sensitivity or apriorism to the proposals made by the opposition, so I do not think that this is in any of the cases you are talking about. But when it comes to committee, I've given my opinion. In fact, diplomacy has a syntagma: When you can't solve a problem, form a commission and then waste your time. I helped bring some of these committees into the world, and we actually didn't benefit more from it than buying time. To compare the Commission with Croatia with the commissions that we had with Austria and Italy, I think it is completely superfluous because, in fact, Croatia and I do not have any problems in history that would, I don't know, burden our relations. Relations with Austria and Italy, with which we had historical commissions, concerned situations either after the first or after the second world war - during, before and after these wars; very specific and partly very painful issues to be discussed in such commissions. I do not think that we have such problems in our relations with Croatia. I pleaded myself before the idea of this committee fell, for example, I proposed a more intensive dialogue of cultural elites, political elites, civil society and so on. There may be some similarity of the idea of bringing a debate between the two countries to a broader level, but the historical commissions - I'm sorry, I don't see any basis for the historical commission between Slovenia and Croatia. As far as the euro area is concerned, I have also expressed my opinion, and I repeat it today. I do not think there is any advantage for regional integration if Slovenia is one region. It is only here that this national assembly must first determine whether or not it wants the regionalisation of Slovenia. If he wants it, he will have partners, as regional partners, in neighbouring countries, which will not connect with all three but will probably connect with one region. As for the 25 keys, this is what I am talking about - I am also talking about negotiating with Croatia and agreeing on some open issues, but I am not threatening them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u96	Thank you. My friend Janš as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u97	Okay, now we've heard the clear answer. This committee is not a good solution for you. Then what do you suggest? Before you spoke for about 15 minutes about the state of relations with Croatia, but there was no proposal for what should be done now, not a single initiative proposal in the sense of taking a step. To talk about how things are - we all know that. What's your suggestion? How would you resolve these problems if you disagree with what we have proposed? As far as the euro area is concerned - the same. What is your response to Mr Illy's initiative, which proposes a Euroregion with a centre in Trieste, Furlania-Julia Krajina and Slovenia to the Rapal border? What's your counterproposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u99	My answer to Mr Iliy was that we are in the process of negotiating what the regionalisation of Slovenia will be, and that is why we are not talking about where the seats of some regions will be. And that there are still a lot of systemic things that need to be studied, from financial to all organisational and so on, before a particular euro area can function. But of course we were positive to the very idea of regional integration. The second thing is, if you ask me about the initiatives of this ministry and you haven't noticed them, you might notice that we have made a lot of initiatives in terms of economic diplomacy, that I am going, say, to Kosovo tomorrow in support of the Slovenian economy, that we have also done so when it comes to the problems of some of our companies earlier, and that we are working on a project for the Presidency of the Conference on European Security and Cooperation. This is a balance sheet for two months, you know, Mr Rupel, you've been doing a balance sheet for four years, and you have a problem of your own success to expose and boast about Drnovska's success.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u100	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to take a very brief view on behalf of the New Slovenia Group on this issue, which has just been debated here. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, we will never, ever - agree that Slovenia will disintegrate or divide in the name of regionalisation and in the name of Europe through the very borders that are part of our sad history, but they must never again become part of our reality! Rapal border - history! Mr. Illy - thank you very much, "molto grazie"! Slovenians will never agree that Slovenia will be dismembered on behalf of economic progress, Slovenia must be united and remain as a unit! And linking this issue with the issue of regionalisation of Slovenia is, according to our assessment, the wrong approach. However, I would like to explain now briefly when I was finished, when time was running out, so you set it up, why I argued that the Prime Minister and the government are deceiving the Slovenian public when it comes to borrowing. And now I'm going to try to explain that. It is a fact and you can review your own document that you have sent, and on page 29, that the debt that the President is talking about and the government talking about is the debt of the wider sector of the country. The government boasts that the debt fell from 27.9% in 2002 to 27.7% gross domestic product. That's right, that's right. However, since 2000, it has steadily increased, not only in the SIT, which is not particularly appropriate if you measure it in euros, from €4,981 million in 2000 to €6,697, almost 7,000 million, says 7 billion in 2003. Of course, this is not expected to change in the future, but it is still an assessment and I do not want to talk too much about evaluations. What, then, is this debt, where the government and the Prime Minister responds in their many public performances to stabilise this debt to 27.7%? Is that all? It's a debt to a wider country. What is a wider country? Yeah, it's a budget, plus debts to municipalities, health insurance, and ZPIZ. Well, that's true. But is that all? Of course, it is not all because we have one special feature again in Slovenia, and this speciality is that we have another additional category. And this additional category is called the debt of other users. Who are these other users? Yeah, other users, for example, Dars, say a long highway that's not included in this 27.7%. It also includes the debt of the Slovenian exporting company, railway agencies and Slovenian compensation companies. In Novi Slovenija – and this is not a novelty in this National Assembly – we have already made many public appearances and said this is part of the debt. Making such a difference is misleading, and this deception is not cat tears, you know, because from 27.7%, if you add this debt, you get 38.7% of the gross domestic product. And that's not really all. Why do I say it's not all? Since the Court of Auditors has already stated in this National Assembly in its reports that the government, that the Ministry of Finance, does not record enough of these things to ensure that this is all. So, at least 38.7%, not 27, as Mr. Prime Minister claims. So we're getting close to that magic 40%. Why is that magical? Because 40% - not that I made it up, this was the assessment that came to this national assembly with the draft budget for 2002. Those who read this and read it again, you will see that Dr. Janez Drnovšek and the current Prime Minister were signed as finance minister, where he argued and warned the National Assembly that Slovenia should not exceed 40% of the debt because this would jeopardise debt servicing in accordance with the Maastricht criteria. But you know why - because the Slovenian budget has too many fixed parts that we cannot change. Dr. Dark in the last article in the last issue of the Saturday Annex is talking about 90%, and I think that's what's going to hold. So 40% is a very dangerous number for us, for Slovenia. Are we close yet? Yes, of course we are – 38.7% and something else. What else? Do you know what else has to be added to this? This needs to be added to the guarantees - and the fact that only the Ministry of Finance is talking about these additional users that we have in a box, that they are just evaluations. Interesting! You know, finance ministries just watch out for things like this and don't just give a title - that's an assessment. And they agree with the Court of Auditors that they do not know today and that they still need to ensure this. So at least 38.7%, and there are guarantees to be added. How much? Yeah, that's it again, that's it. Our government reports sometimes, sometimes yes, sometimes no, but never says, we do not distinguish those parts of the guarantees that are already part of our debt. There, in these global guarantee numbers, which represent an additional 7.6% of the gross domestic product, we are already well over 40, but we also have debts such as Tama, AM-BUSA. Does anyone even believe that this is not part of our debt? Who are we kidding? On behalf of the success story for those three seconds after TV, we introduce ourselves, because it's not that bad, because look how far we are from 60%. Now there's something about 60% of the Maastricht criteria. Sooner or later, the time will come when someone in Europe will understand that it is pointless that debts for motorways are not part of the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia. We can play here, the ministry can say, Mr President of the Prime Minister claims, but the fact is that by taxpayers - those who will have to pay for it, no matter which box is hidden, sooner or later is part of our debt. And there will also be clear accounts with the European Union sooner or later. That is why we insist that the government deceives, knowingly deceiving when it says that we will keep public debt at 27% when it knows well, because all the information I have just said is in a report that the government sent to this National Assembly last July. The leadership of the National Assembly did not give an EPA number, but I found it and I prepared it. So these are data from the Slovenian government. But in public presentations we still insist: 27% and we have almost stabilised. We're not stabilizing anything! The fact is, if you're looking at the whole thing, it's increased every year, from 35.1% to 38.7 and we're counting, and it's not all the Court of Auditors says so, and the Ministry of Finance admits by saying yes, because these are just estimates. So, deceiving and doting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u102	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I would like to explain that we have two methodologies, how we calculate the debt and then we show it. One is the so-called public debt and this is the one that was also designated as the one to be followed at the conclusion of the coalition contract. And the methodology was then established and it was said that between 35 % and 40 % of the gross domestic product would stabilise. And it's 38.5% and not 38.7%, as has been said. This debt contains everything, including Darsa's debt and state-owned companies. The second debt is based on the methodology of the European Union, Eurostat, which is the so-called "General Government", is a state debt, a wider state, and is calculated in Slovenia under the review of Eurostat. We had Eurostat committees with us and Eurostat went through each of these potential institutions, businesses, agencies, etc. in the country and determined with us according to the methodology whose institutions, their debts enter into this "General government". And this is 27.7% of gross domestic product following Eurostat’s methodology and approval. And it can't be any different! So we have an audit here to determine how this is calculated. The next thing that matters is this one. It is true that this coalition, in order to keep the debt, the public debt, which is between 35% and 40%, because of the fact that it would not be the cost of financing interest, the cost of interest, is said to have been servicing this debt, too high and what I had shown before, when I had my presentation, the cost of servicing the debt has been reduced since 2000, when they were 2,05% of gross domestic product, to 1.8% of gross domestic product by 2003. In short, debt servicing costs, which stabilised at 38.5%, fell and I also said why they fell - because we were managing debt in a way that was more expensive to replace debt with less debt, we stabilised debt, etc. In short, from this point of view, of course, there can be no doubt here that what is in the longer part of the wider country is in there as it should be. Italy, Austria and other countries also have their own motorway companies outside this wider debt country and this is perfectly normal, but of course it must meet certain conditions and the key condition is that it acquires on the market funds to service its debts; and Dars acquires on the toll market that service these debts. From this point of view, of course, there can be no doubt that the numbers we gave are the right numbers: that 27.7% of the revised data is 38.5% in line with the methodology that was used in 2000 in the same way. From this point of view, I do not see any possibility of changing this methodology now and including guarantees that are of course not long - they are potential debt, I agree - but guarantees according to the methodology which is the national methodology for determining public debt, which is 38.5% - of course guarantees do not belong in this part. However, I agree with you that the guarantees are potential debts and guarantees, so we also show them at their level.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Bayuk's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Of course, we're not in Eurostat here. Here's the National Assembly. And the National Assembly, under the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Slovenia, has the only right to grant such permission for borrowing and also for the adoption of the budget. What Mr. Secretary thinks good or worse is a secondary character. Of course, I take your opinion for granted and respect. But this National Assembly is supposed to get these reports all the time. I doubt, however, whether Eurostat was aware of the fact that the Court of Auditors has already said and expressed its opinion that it cannot confirm this debt that we have in this third category of these other users, because the Minister of Finance does not have sufficient and such records to do so. Of course, it can be arranged and I hope you do it too. And don't think, Mr. Secretary, that you have to do all this. Much of what we are talking about today is the fruit of years of constant concealment and pushing our heads into the sand. And let me add this: I also doubt that there is really everything in these numbers. For I miss other public institutions, such as those set up by the congregations. Whether all public institutions set up by the Ljubljana municipality are involved or not - I think not. Are all the hospitals - at least for some I know, I remember well in this National Assembly when I asked the Minister of Health once, if he can tell me what the task of the Clinical Center is. Mr Minister told me that he didn't have this information and I accepted it, of course, because the fact is he can't have everything in his pocket or in his head and I expected the answer he promised - that I would know, I didn't get it. If you sent it, maybe. But the clinical center isn't in this list. That is why I always insist and in Nova Slovenija we advocate that it will only occur once in Slovenia until one moment when we can all understand it. Why wouldn't we? Right here at the Ljubljana Bank, instead of showing us how much temperature there is, it could show how much public debt changes every second, so that everyone knows what's happening to us and what's waiting for us in the future. Why not? Whose country is this, if it's not ours? And our responsibility! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u106	Thank you. First the Minister, Dr. Marble, then the Minister, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u107	Excuse me, I would just like to add that in this 27.7%, which is in line with Eurostat's methodology, which is used as the Maastricht border - the Maastricht criteria, you know that 60% of this limit. This covers everything that must be in line with this methodology. In the other public sector up to this public debt, these other users of public funds or companies or other public-owned institutions are. So what we have from the point of view of the Maastricht criteria is, of course, everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u108	Dr. Keber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u109	Dear Mr. Bajuk! You received a response: the clinical centre is not in charge. The only institution in charge of this Parliament and government decision is the Oncology Institute for completing its construction. Public institutions cannot be indebted without the government's consent in the field of health.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u110	There's a colleague of mine who's got the word. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have quite a few problems with interpretation, although twice today it has already been said what the Slovak meaning of this word is, but it has not been said that in Rule 250 of the Rules of Procedure in paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure it is also necessary to make a clear and reasoned question which is the subject of interpretation. Interpellation investors themselves on the 44th page of the cluster write that this is an assessment and in this assessment there is a whole series of claims to which they expected - because of these claims - the answers and the answers they received, but sometimes the answers reached even over the predetermined interpretative claims. Just for example, the seven lines that were devoted to culture in interpretation end with "itd. "and everything that is written in the government's response almost refers to that 'itd. ".. It was also said that interpellation was not a novel. I will not go to the language level of this text, but I would like to point out that I have already reflected in the public the quality of the arguments made in the interpretation. I will only stop at one, because, as an MP from an area where social poverty and unemployment are higher than the average, this is a particular issue. Before doing so, however, let me say that the statistics on the rate of surveyed unemployment in Slovenia for the second quarter of 2004 are such that they have an impact of optimism. 6.1% of unemployment is for women 6.4% and 5.7% respectively. In the interpretation of both the government and the United List of Social Democrats, it does not mean that we think that we are living in India, but we are pleased if any negative information becomes positive. However, it has already been said that as long as there is unemployment in the country, we will have something to plan and improve in the area of social policy. Now to the claim I want to prove false. The conclusion concludes that because the number of recipients of social assistance has increased to 60,000, it is clear from this data that poverty is increasing in Slovenia, as stated on page 14. This is proved by the interpolation constituents by the increasing number of recipients of monetary social assistance. Indeed, this argument has already been challenged in one of the Slovenian media, but let me remind you that in 2001, when the Act on Social Protection, its additions and amendments were adopted, this Act also received the support of opposition Members, and in this law measures were adopted that entered into force in 2001, 2002 and 2003, and resulted in an increase in the number of recipients of social assistance due to censorship. With this, I hope, their social security has increased and this cannot possibly be an information that could be disclosed to this government. I would also like to point out that, of course, it is possible to discuss how money social assistance has been spent and, however, it would suggest that the objective of aid is favourable, which means that 82 out of 26% of gross domestic product is directed at the first two income classes. This means that it is targeted selectively towards those most needing assistance. It would probably be less administration, it would probably be easier to just universally assign, but social policy measures are measured not only by objectives but also by efficiency and can be proven here. However, the issue of political debate is whether the interpellations and the government see who must be the holder of social policy and active employment policy measures. If the government has decided that these are social work centres, and the interpellations think that more incentives for the development of local and regional private intermediaries in the labour market should be created, it is a matter of a political decision and of a different view of things, and it might be possible to find more such things in this context that suggest a different political definition. The fact that passive unemployment prevention measures are now slow to win active employment measures has been said. In 1998, there was a ratio of 1 to 3, now there is a ratio of 1 to 1.5. That means we know where we want to go. And, of course, it would be cynical - and I think it is cynical - if in interpretation it is also able to read such an argument that if the state, if the government adopts a strategy to prevent a negative phenomenon, it is a reflection of its inability. No, I'm sorry, this is just proof that the government is aware of the problem and that it also has an idea of how to solve this problem in the future. However, the political decision is whether we want 26.6 - or how much of these percentages, which are intended for gross domestic product for social transfers - to be kept at that level or whether we want to reduce or increase this percentage. This percentage is known to be 27% in Europe. The effectiveness of the funds has already been announced. And there's only one thing I'd like to talk to you about. Interpellation was filed or drawn up at the end of July. I would expect because investors expect fresh data to see that in July the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs presented a programme to monitor the allocation of these social transfers. This project has 9 sets and has been running since 2000 and is therefore a longer-term project, which will save significant funds just before the end when it comes to its full life. And there's only one thing that should be said. I am not going to go into whether or not the interpellational candidates distinguish between family policy and demographic policy and what is the task of one and another. But I certainly have to respond to that transcript in the interpellation that I'm talking about. [[I think it's written on page 25.]] that the family, in a traditional sense, as a partner and parental union of men and women, also loses meaning because of strong pressure after equalising the status with the same-sex partners. I'm sorry, but this claim is an eccentric lie, because all we said in the general debate on the adoption of the same-sex partnership bill is that it is not a matter of equalising the marriage and the same-sex partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u112	Thank you. My friend Janš as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u113	Well, look, first of all, let me say that we have the opposition on the one hand, it is said, about 20 and some other Members, on the other hand, almost 60 members of the government's parties who have received support and assistance, or vice versa, also 17 ministers of the government, and together they have decided because they have a majority in college, 70 minutes more time. There are more of you, and you've given yourself more time to just mate equally here, as you say. So much for equality. As far as this information, which has been given in these last performances, I must say that there is a major problem with some. The data on poverty are from 2001. We have now heard that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs launched a programme in July that will only record the various aids received by individuals and thus save a lot of money. So now you're throwing him away. Why was this programme not made at the beginning of the mandate because it was promised "every living thing"? I am very grateful for these sincere words that a lot of money is being spent here, in the Ministry of Labour and the family, because this program is not working yet. But here we talk a lot about indices, we talk about percentages, we talk about percentages, we talk about relative absolutes and, of course, a lot of people don't find this here. We, too, must say, sometimes have trouble repeating the same definition three times, but always a little different. I got here an hour ago a letter from one of our fellow citizens from Chestnut, signed, not to say his last name, his name is Ivan. He says: "I am monitoring this discussion on indices and shares, I live in Ashkrcheva, Scotland. The parish of the municipality of Šostjanj is more in Ljubljana and nothing in its municipality and is virtually unattainable for fellow citizens and I have decided to contact you or your group of Members. We have an apartment, non-profit, in a newly built block, the block is about eight years old, the apartment is supposed to be superstandard, and it looks like it's supposed to be super-standard, and it looks like it's from the Middle Ages, because all the walls are repenting and the obstruction of the waste. That's when I got it through the invitation. Since the apartments are being severely irritated from month to month, and the wages are not going anywhere, please tell me how the congregation can or can help me to facilitate the payment of the apartment with some subsidies. My wife works in Gorenje for four hours, and I work at the Termoelectric power plant in Šostanj. We have two children, one daughter is nine years old, and she's compulsory, and the other daughter is one year old. Since they both have their own needs and our wallet is very thin, we have come to such a disadvantage that we cannot regularly pay for our apartment and are therefore in a deep stalemate. Since the wage differentials in both companies are very large, I will probably send some bills to the director of Gorenje and some to the director of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, and let them pay them to have food at the end of the month. I can't afford a car anyway, and I'd really need one if it's old. So let them – think of the director – live with my salary if you can. I'd probably have at least one of those if I was a member of the LDS, but I'm not gonna embarrass myself. I thank you very much for the answer and wish you success in interpolation." We're not talking about unemployed people here, we're talking about a family with two children, they're both busy, they're only four hours old, and they're having trouble paying rent in non-profit apartments, which has increased. So how do these people understand these indices and percentages and relative shares and the constant assertion that we are already the best. And I'm asking the Prime Minister and the well-respected ministerial council a very simple question: "When will Ivan from Šostjanje and his family feel that Slovenia is among the developed countries?"
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u114	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Leopold Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u115	Thank you very much. It is difficult to deal with something that is completely normal in democracy and in Parliament if it is not entirely normal. It is difficult to talk about the interpretation of all ministers, because interpretation is about the whole government, of course, if the proponents do not intend to talk about interpretation, but they do have the intention of what we have just heard – to play on people's emotions, which is very simple; such letters can be read by each of us, and we get them, and there are many such problems. But this is not the issue of today's debate. With the indices, compared to the comparisons came the interpolation candidate and the government on 359 pages responds again with the indices and with what was written in the interpolation. Of course, only after good ten hours did we hear some questions and some controversy that went in the direction of 'what is written in the answer is not true'. Then we heard the Minister of Finance say that this is true and that these are comparisons, which under some criteria, as agreed in the European Union, are working, and this is the only way to compare our placement in the European Union. So it is clear to us that this interpellation has another purpose, which is not wrong, but it is such that it is said what the opposition thinks and that the government can say what it has actually done and answer these questions. I've got one more question to ask me. Before entering the European Union, there was much work to be done, we all said that we are all working, all parties, all political options, for the same purpose, for the same; and we convinced people and convinced the European Union that what is written in these answers is true. We all said that except for Jelinčič's party that got out of it. Now, suddenly, a good part of the parties and parliament, because the elections are approaching, is saying that this is not the case. Well, someone was a little bit faking this story. Who? Did we pretend to be citizens? Were we faking the European Union? I don't think so. I think that is why this is not a debate today, because the answers prepared by the ministries prepared by the government are very precise and all things are very evident. Everything that's written in these materials on 359 pages can be verified. One attempt by Dr. Bayuk earlier has been tried and it has been proven that, as it says, it is the methodology used by the European Union, and if we want to compare ourselves with other countries, it is so. Slovenia has also found that this European Union is a perfectly normal European country, with all the weaknesses and all the good things it has, completely comparable. And the trends we're looking at here and the ones that the ministries, ministers and government representatives are talking about are trends that are upwards, which is in some ways normal, because the starting point is probably a little lower, but still trends are upwards. Slovenia is one of the normal European countries, which probably also has corruption, and this has also been an assessment within the European Union that we are a moderately corrupt country, and so on, has a good side and has a bad side. And no one says we only have one or the other. The interpretation proposed is to say that this country is not functioning normally, that it is acting poorly, and that this government is acting poorly. What we've heard today and what we can read, it's just another word. And because of this interpolation, which has no intention of being an interpolation, it is not possible to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u116	Thank you. My colleague Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, representatives of the government. At the time of his term of office in 1998, the former President of the Supreme Court promised that backlogs would be resolved within four or five years, and the Minister of Justice promised, at the time of his term of office in 2000, that he would deliver backlogs within four years. His promise was also his programme and thus the government's programme. And what can we learn from the expiry of this government's mandate? Despite some of the movements that have been made in recent years, we can still argue that our country does not provide justice within a reasonable time. The judiciary is an institution that, according to opinion polls, is least trusted by citizens. People are dissatisfied and feel that our country is not legal and that we must be very concerned as legislators. We have also written in interpellation, among others, that judicial backlogs significantly reduce the constitutional right to real justice. The right to judicial protection within a reasonable period of time in Slovenia has the nature of fundamental human rights and represents a constitutional category. But it's not enough to just write it down. By its very nature, it is one of the most important criteria for determining the degree of fulfilment of the constitutional commitment in Slovenia as a legal country. It is not just resounding criminal matters, but always those everyday cases where citizens and citizens cannot reach their own rights and for them the most important right. And if they reach it, they can't execute it or they can't subscribe to the land book. Trials with us also last from five to eight years and beyond. The German judge, Mr Doukoff, who worked with us as a pre-accession consultant, has thus assessed our regime of judicial backlogs. I quote: "By your regulations, there is a case that has not been resolved in 18 months of suspension. However, such a case is not a judicial backlog, such a case is a disaster." [[End of quote.]] The German judge was sharp, but direct. His advice on control was met with bitter criticism in the judiciary. Among other things, he said the following. I quote: "Slovak judges, like many judges in Europe, are primarily engaged in protecting their privileges and payments, irrespective of the fact that Slovenian judges not only make a very good profit compared to other Slovenian workers, but also in European comparison." [[End of quote.]] There are hundreds of thousands of pending cases, but the situation in the courts is very different. Things are only getting better with difficulty, but I think the problem of back-up will be even bigger. Europe has already warned us about them and legal certainty, which is not provided with backlogs. Now that we are in the European Union, we can expect many foreigners to appear before our courts in different roles, so we will be even more exposed in this regard. We do not have the mechanisms designed to show which judges do not meet the necessary standards, how much an individual judge within the judiciary does, what is the quality, how much quantity and cost-effectiveness of his work. A special chapter is a non-acoustic land book, especially the problem of real estate buyers, which has proved to be very good in the case of the Zbilski Gaj affair, since buyers do not have a record to rely on, so many times they do not know what they are buying and under what conditions and burdens. Since the land book has been neglected all the time, there has been a transfer from manual to electronic processing too slowly, and many still have to wait one or more years for the book, which creates uncertainty as the current situation in the land book does not mean the actual situation. The problem is also on the floor property, because it's a few hundred thousand units that haven't all been logged in yet. Financial non-discipline, which, as a cancer wound, engenders daily business, in particular entrepreneurs and craftsmen, also has its roots in the longevity of the proceedings before the courts. Recoverys are often not carried out on a judicial basis, which creates disorder and a polygon for various non-businesses in the country. In any case, the deadlines should be reduced; judicial procedures should run faster because this is the only way to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the country. We must not forget the approximately 170,000 pending cases of offenders coming to court since 1.5.2005. The justice system is one of the fundamental stones important for the functioning of modern society, which requires opposite correction for the optimal functioning of the entire social system. It is precisely because of large judicial backlogs in the resolution of cases that we all come into a position too often, as if we do not have a judicial system at all. The legislative branch of power may and must also ask how effective the judiciary is in its work. It must be acknowledged that the National Assembly has been working to improve the situation. In 2001, he proposed to the Government and the Supreme Court the establishment of a joint expert commission to examine and analyse the reasons for the delay and to make proposals for their abolition or reduction. The analysis and proposals were prepared in April 2002, but nothing actually happened. The backlog has increased, the countries on the verge of legal certainty and the citizens are very dissatisfied. It is like no one in the court wanted to take their part of the responsibility or face the possibility that something might really be wrong, everyone refers to another, judges to the executive and legislative authorities, and they refer to the judiciary. The government and Parliament have heard about the material and other problems of the judiciary, and the judiciary has felt threatened and still feels threatened by taking autonomy through legal proceedings, threatening its independence and independence. The Presidents of the Courts, along with the Judicial Council, could also take much more effective care of the speed of the work of the courts and the responsible conduct of the judges. Various calls, such as the Commission of the National Petitions Chamber, these Members' questions, the request for a debate on this subject, the Ombudsman's report, the Court's advice and the legislation adopted and other efforts have only resulted in a change in the situation, but all too slowly and too little energy. The fact remains that more than 10 years of scissors and canvas in her hands had one political option, so the liability for judicial backlogs on your shoulders will fall. The Government notes that in the coming years it is necessary to modernise the judiciary in order to ensure the long-term effective functioning of the rule of law in the field of judicial protection of rights, which means that it is aware that in the long term the cases are not regulated as they should be and that the promises have not been fulfilled. However, we need to know that the dignity of the judiciary is all too serious a matter to be thwarted by unimaginable organisational changes, as has been the case in the last ten years. Even more serious is the fact that it remains in the minds of people that Slovenia is not a legal country, that equality before the law is not that the legal mills are grinding too slowly and that the old saying "right is put off is a right denied" all too often. We should also imagine what the human voice says, that the judiciary will act on an up-to-date and effective basis. Only after the end of ownership will most of the social property land in the hands of some 100 very wealthy individuals or, in other words, after the sand will be rich but not out of work, and most Slovenians will remain empty hands and will be offered only a few small pieces of a large cake that has been shared. And usually the voice of men is not far from the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u118	Thank you. A colleague of Valentin Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, President. I am also obliged to give some answers to the public because, for some time now, in the media and in the media, there have been some untruths here today that concern our Group. DeSUS proposed a change in the formula for the coordination of pensions, which has made the situation worse. That's not true, mag. Little thing, it's not true. DeSUS has never brought this proposal into the procedure. But here's the thing. During the previous term of office, DeSUS helped to adopt such a formula that, over a certain period of time, pensions were overturned, which in the long term was unlikely to be sustainable, since those who create new value cannot pay contributions, both employers and workers. And the change was kind of necessary. In December 2000, Desus was invited to a coalition to sign an agreement in which it became necessary to amend Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We then weighed very heavily whether to enter this coalition or not. We have also been at the point of not going, but we have found in the world that it is better to be around and influence the minor evil or minor deterioration of these conditions than not to be around and have no chance. That's the truth, and we went along. The mandate for these changes was given to the pensioners of Slovenia. Who? The ones they voted for. Therefore, DeSUS was invited to the coalition under such a condition and, with its four members to 54 others in the coalition, it was not possible to achieve the deletion of this intention from the coalition contract. I think you're that real, too. And after this consideration being present or not, we decided to go along and negotiate a minor deterioration rather than not to be present and achieve nothing at all. That's the real truth. I think we had a solid negotiation. The Minister for Labour and Family and Social Affairs is not here at the moment, and the then Minister for Finance, Tone Rop, with whom we have spent a lot of time together and have been a battle for a better formula than was proposed at the beginning. But now, for four years, you've been launching an untruth into the public that we've made this proposal. That's not true. After the negotiations, however, because once it is all over, we have decided that what has been negotiated as a partner, as it were, as it were, as a coalition partner, we are voting on it. That's the truth, and we don't keep it a secret. And we voted that. Somewhere, of course, the limit is given. And now it is those who write letters to readers who, in the wake of the 1999 pension reform, wanted to write down a much worse situation and to write down explanations of how excessive rights were given and written. But now they're writing letters to readers, and that's only for DeSUS, because they're just trying to hurt us and kick us out of the polls. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not political hygiene. The same ones who were in the public service at the time, but today they sit behind you and serve you. This does not seem fair to us and fair and, of course, others by order write, one, one, one, one, one, the Diary, the Evening, and it spins again. It is also true that Peterlet’s government has reduced the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance. And then there was a deficit in the pension fund. Every action has an effect. It is true that the government of Dr. Bajuk identified this deficit in 2000 for SIT 12.4 billion. All of this is documented and well-known. It was preparing remedial measures, as it also needed to be recovered and survived so that pensions could be paid to some extent. Would you really want to increase your pensions, as you would like to do to your constituents today, or would you like to announce to the entire Slovenian public when the deficit is 12.4 billion, but would we give more?Oh, my God! Please! I suppose if the election wasn't close then, you would have frozen your pensions, like your colleague Schroeder did in rich Germany, too, but the elections were too close. Of course, you can today, because you do not have this responsibility for balancing the budget on both sides, speak and promise otherwise what you would do. Thus, we cannot agree with and firmly reject such matters. Who else would it be possible to take so that they could give it to others? Do you raise taxes, raise contributions, raise gross wage burdens, raise VAT, as you think, as I hear, in your program? I don't think you're gonna be able to afford it during this period. I'll be done. I reject such accusations and such untrue tendencyal claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u120	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u121	Mr. Pohorec, I'm glad you came with these words a day. Let me tell you a coalition agreement: "The coalition will support the solution to preserve the principle of proportional pension and salary movements." See page 34 of the report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and you will receive information that this is not being achieved and that you have caused evil. Is that evil that Robb intended to do greater than what you have achieved — the fact that evil has occurred. Is this evil enough to reduce the age pension from 75.3 to 71.1 in three years? Is it big or is it little evil? There is now a surplus in the budget office for pension and disability insurance because the principle of binding containers applies: if you take the pensioner out of his pocket, there is a shortage and there is a surplus in the pension. Mr. Kebrič, your Member, proposed this, explained it, and was also in the parliamentary group, that is, in the hallway where he urged us that the change in the coordination of pensions, 150th and 151st, was very good. [[See also then in the debate that is in the magnetogram]] . So you've done evil. And the pensioners will find out if it was a small or proportionate evil. But the fact is, you took the right and you took this right to the pensioners' pension, and that's the party that defended the pensioners the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u122	Thank you. A colleague of Kangler's has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to go on with my pensions, even though that's my point of view. And although I am not a signatory to this interpolation, my view is that DeSUS should be a little more resilient in this coalition, in which the Slovenian People's Party has until recently also been a party, but because of the uncompromising behaviour of some individuals, particularly some of the types of the United List, I am not at all sorry that I am no longer present in such a society as this Slovenian government. Before starting the debate I have prepared, I would like to add briefly to the position of the Slovenian People's Party that if Euroregions are to be created, Slovenia must be in Slovenia as a whole. This is our firm position and from this point of view the Slovenian People's Party will not deviate. Slovenian policy must not allow some to be divided into Gradec within the euro area, some to Trieste. Slovenia must remain as a whole within the future euro area. The responsibility to ensure this lies with all of us, who, in any way, are active in politics and, above all, with the foreign minister and the government. Today, there have been many words spoken both by the opposition and by some government members in "pro and contra", some of my previous speakers have been able to narrow down the optimal statistics on unemployment recently in the Republic of Slovenia. A colleague from Maribor also said that this optimum data should be 6.1%, but do not ignore that if I make a comparison, Ljubljana has 300 thousand inhabitants and Maribor has 150 000, and when we index unemployment, we can find with this comparison that due to public works that have increased significantly in the northeastern part of Slovenia itself, this unemployment has fallen to 18% in the city of Maribor or the surrounding area. And this is not a reduction in unemployment for me if someone increases efficiency and increased resources for public works. This is about mitigating the social crisis. And when we speak to the Oreb, I would invite a lot of people to take a walk in the Maribor market and see what they are selling readings or who is buying and how they are buying, and also to see what they look like shopping in the Maribor trades or what they look like shopping in some other shops, after a little richer areas of Slovenia. Given that I have little time, I would like to focus on two problems that I, as a government Member, and as a recent member of the post, have warned this government, some difficulties, I have to be honest, I have heartache when I read some statistics and every day in my office I receive people who feel these problems. The biggest problem in this given Slovenian political space is one of the largest centralisations possible. I have already stressed, proved, and nothing has changed in this House with concrete data and statistics on various segments. Nothing at all. And we are witnessing such centralisation and globalisation of Slovenian capital, public finances and human resources in central Slovenia that there is no measure and no pair. Look at the example, I will tell you honestly, thank God that the end of this term is that the cards will be mixed up a little bit at the elections and that some who come from such government parties, the strongest parties, even if they are slightly away from central Slovenia, or a slightly different government, will come to what they want. Journalist Otmar Klipšteter wrote in one of the articles fragments of 2.8 billion fat to Mariborians. What's this all about? See, in the middle of the game you do not change a judge, an article in the Maribor Evening, in the picture is my secular colleague from the municipality of Maribor Dr. Igor Tičar, Dean of the Faculty, member of the Liberal Democracy and also a member of the City Council of Maribor. The Ministry of Defence, together with the Ministry of Education, has tendered for 2.8 billion tolars of various calls. The University of Maribor, with all the projects that were 17 years old, applied for all these tenders. Of these calls, one project was revised positively and one project was revised by half. The University of Maribor received 45 million tolars from 2.8 billion. Do you know why? Because centralisation and globalisation are so present in central Slovenia that experts from universities, doctors of science, even as members of the LDS do not come to what they are entitled to. At the same time, Otmar Klipšteter mentioned in his article Professor Denis Jonlagič, and I think he is a member of the United States List or LDS, who can compete with his projects for the U.S. government. For the U.S. government, it is good, and for the Ljubljana government, but the Slovenian government is not good and it does not reach these funds. Out of 2.8 billion tolars, the University of Maribor receives only 45 million tolars. Is this a right or is this an injustice to all those who want the quality of life in any way equivalent to that of all who are any distance from the center? The same is true of some of the invitations issued by individual professors, for example, Professor Ploj of the University of Maribor applied to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the Ministry of Education and Sport for one research assignment twice or three times a year for the circus. And what was going on? Ma'am, who worked at the Ministry of Agriculture to revise the task of her husband working at a biotech university, which is simultaneously a competition for this university. The result of the revision of this task is likely to be known to you. They can't get to these five million. And that happens every day. In this Chamber, many people laugh at the last session, when we elected the Prešeren Fund, I think it is 15 members, 13 members from Ljubljana, 1 from Maribor, 1 from Murska Sobota. What happened later? What they are discussing and what they are deciding, it is perfectly easy for you to understand. And then there are these things, where they're dividing 2.8 billion to get one of the universities just 45 million, not to talk about a coastal university that's at the beginning of the launch, or did it even get some kind of tolar. The same Ministry of Defence had an invitation to purchase fire extinguishers and some flammable substances in tunnels. The Maribor company signed up for the tender, which is 140 million more expensive than the other with the same quality. Believe me, there was a mistake in the procedure. And who was chosen? Because the German licensed company did not seal its quality-providing document, they were excluded from the tender. Who cares about 140 million. The fact is that centralisation is also present in all segments. I myself received a letter from the local community of Malečnik-Ruparce on account of some of the events at the Ministry of Agriculture and the decisions of the Minister for Agriculture himself. As you are aware, the municipality acquired a location, a change in the location of the spatial plan for the Vihra landfill in Maleknik. Mag. Franci Booth, then minister, gave a negative opinion. First time. Another time. The current Minister of Agriculture has once again issued a negative opinion. During the night, probably due to political or other pressures, this negative opinion turned into a positive opinion and gave consent to an area where the agricultural area is the best land, where we have a number of years of fruity, wine road, where the Phare programme is where the country where Brussels and many others invested in those farmers, in those farmers' tourism, in that wine road. And this government, which has for 10 years promoted the development of agriculture, the development of tourism, the development of rural tourism, now gives such consent and takes such a measure that 31 buildings or more than 80 people are needed in the 300m zone if this project is to be implemented. And this is where the Minister of Agriculture has to take responsibility. As one of his fellow Members has already pointed out to him how much agricultural land has changed, the best surfaces have turned into a walled area, this is a disaster. Given that we have also talked a little about the development of small economies and tourism today, it is important to make it clear that we had a ministry for small economies and tourism and would not like to highlight where and how this ministry worked. However, it will also be a challenge for any policy that will go to this year's elections to reflect on whether some Slovenian politicians are able to move across Slovenia, which are currently in the middle of Ljubljana, in premises, non-ownership premises and pay a high rent. The government pays high rent for these premises. Finally, to leave some time for my fellow Members to do the work of Minister Kopač. You all know that if we look at some of the events back, Minister Kopač has made several statements about Hydro Holding as well as some of the energy activities he has carried out, as far as Drava power plants are concerned. It has caused quite a lot of damage, damage such that all together at one point it has concentrated and decided to sell, decided on investments, and all that capital is generated from those Drava power plants. However, if I recall some other things, I think it was right because the Minister is present, that he also clearly and loudly says that we have recently recorded the students in the Slovenian countryside, whether after the elections the Minister will also send a bill to those people who have been sent to register with him to pay for the burden of water or something like that. Finally, these people took care of their water resources, invested themselves, and made sure that we had healthy drinking water. I agree that they are registered, I do not mind, but I am deeply afraid that after the elections, whoever comes to this ministry will be happy with strong rankings from that list through the computer program of Slovenian citizens who have any of these water resources. And once again, I would like to point out that it is imperative that Slovenian policy understands the fact that Slovenia has recently started to develop unevenly and that there will be a need to ensure more coherent regional development. If we take care of this, such things as I have listed today will not happen, as there will be a level playing field for the University of Maribor to apply for certain calls, tasks and personnel, as there will be a level playing field for regional development. This is the responsibility of Slovenian politics. This government, which has to assume this responsibility and has not done this task to ensure and reduce underdevelopment across regions, must ensure more coherent regional development. And certainly the future will be slightly different than I can speak today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u125	Before the honourable Members take responsibility, if you allow me, I would like to say a few words about the disposal of hazardous waste in Maribor. I think it's called Vihra or something. See, the procedure for changing the destination of agricultural land is prescribed by the applicable legislation and I must say that one of the tasks I have set myself as Minister is that I will deal very rigorously and rigorously with these matters because in the past, in fact, there have been several comments, including dissatisfaction and so on. In particular, in this case, I must say that the procedures are managed by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture gives its consent, giving its opinion in particular in cases where agricultural land is concerned, especially agricultural land of the first category. The municipality of Maribor has given its role to the Ministry of the Environment, and of course the material has also come to the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since they did not fit in their role, this opinion was negative, as you rightly said. And it is common for an expert who runs this to tell you what irregularities need to be addressed so that a positive consensus can be obtained. And it's usually when it comes to this kind of procedure – and I have to say that we're very rigorous here, even in this case we were, and it wasn't overnight, far from that. [[I can serve this to you on a date as it was.]] but it was in accordance with the ongoing procedure. And the municipality of Maribor had to submit a revised, complementary spatial plan for this area. As far as I can remember, it was 9.6 acres. [[Back-up advertising.]] Well, without head, I don't know, because that's a lot, but you have to forgive me. Well, in this case, replacement land had to be provided and trained. In cases where a specific municipality uses certain areas of destination which are important for the municipality, this shall be permitted in cases where they provide other land of the first category to train them. And in amending and supplementing the material [[It's all in our paperwork at the Ministry, you can see it or I'll send it to you.]] This was also done. Thus, the expert responsible on this basis, within the framework of his powers, gave his consent to such a replacement. When the expert agreed to this, I signed it myself. In short, in this case it was a properly managed procedure which, due to the second use of the land of the first category, required the municipality of Maribor to train other land and to poison it or to bring it into the first category of agricultural land. This is a normal procedure that the law allows, and in this case, I assure you, it has been so. So, as far as I can remember, everything is properly run. But in order to convince you, I can also deliver this documentation to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u126	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Magic. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm just confirming my colleague Pogačnik's words. But I'd like to brag about it. This year we adopted amendments to 182 municipal plans and thus provided a huge stock of building land in many Slovene municipalities. For illustration only, speaking of the work of this government in this mandate: in 2000, when the Bajuk government was in power, the government confirmed the changes in the three municipal spatial plans. Since there was a great dissatisfaction with the congregations not to move, I tried to speed up the shaft and in 2001, 2002 and 2003 we adopted on average the amendments every year 55 municipal spatial plans, this year until 20 July 182. The one Mr. Kangler was talking about was one of them. In order to know what acceleration has taken place in Slovenian municipalities in the mandate of this government, because of the work of this government, this has not happened on its own. When you asked me about these wells. I have already said twice at the press conference, and I will say again before Parliament, while in the LDS government, charging water reports for own use in such wells will certainly not be. However, it seems important to me once again that the records of water resources are important for the protection of water resources. All those who have now had the opportunity in a very easy way to declare existing water rights, which has never been legalised, but now they have, could have done so. It was very simple to legalise, but of course it was not necessary to report all water resources already authorised, either from the Austro-Hungarian Kingdom of Yugoslavia or from the SFRY. Some have asked for water permits, and a large majority have done so in black. Everyone has now had the opportunity to legalize this very easily. This is important because in Slovenia 200 000 people are connected to water, which is not from public water pipelines. 10% of the Slovenian population does not have water from public water pipelines, but from some of them I would say village water pipelines or wells or even here and there they cover this from watercourses, something that is not groundwater. If the State wants to take measures in the water protection area, of course this right must be regulated. The fact that someone has a water right only allows someone near a water source to contaminate this water source with manure or with some other waste materials to give the State the opportunity to act, so of course it is necessary to regulate these water rights. Let me tell you, this instant, some over 32,000 special water rights have been reported. I am confident that this momentum, which has so far been in the water collection and also in the threat of water resources to others, will once and for all end and that we have done or will make order in the use of water. Once again, this does not mean, of course, that anyone will have to pay for their own use. However, if he takes water from the groundwater to water some large complexes or even to sell this water, there is, of course, another story.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u128	Thank you. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Zdenka Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, fellow Ministers! In my performance, I will try to respond to some of the statements made today in this Chamber, so not just the final opinion. Of course, we are all aware that consistent regional development is a real problem in Slovenia, so people feel it, and so do we. However, I would like to stress, not looking back at the period when I am actually responsible for this policy in the last year and a half, but also back, for the period of ten years to which the interpolation relates, and I have simply pointed out the international comparison. Today we have repeatedly referred to international comparisons, and it is also right to look at this. You will recall our latest report on regional development, which has clearly placed this problem and the size of this problem in European reality. And this European reality tells us that despite all of our internal problems we are facing, Slovenia is second only to the lowest degree of internal diversity in the regions, immediately for Sweden. This simply says that coherent regional development is not only a problem in Slovenia, but that it is facing all European governments. This means, at the same time, taking into account all the transition processes facing Slovenia over the past fourteen years, but it must be said that this problem has been solved by the majority of governments operating during this period by relatively more successful than other governments in Europe; this is simply a fact. If we are just comparing other transition countries, we see that the rates there have increased several times. But we also now speak for us within the almost unacceptable 1:2 ratio, which is really our internal problem, but let us try to look at it in an objective light. Now I would like to look at the period when I am responsible for this policy myself. It is true that when I took up my mandate last year – as you know – I have somehow focused on the seven key issues that I will try to do in this relatively short term in terms of ensuring coherent regional development. On the one hand, it was about the preparation of a targeted single programming document, whereby we know that Slovenia will, for the first time in the period 2004-2006, draw up European structural funds. With this single programme document to be negotiated, we have ensured that 60% of all development of funds will already go to regions A and B with the document itself. These are the ones that are the least developed. The fact is that the first calls, even though we have been under great pressure, that less developed regions will not be able to absorb these funds, we have now found after the first calls that, as a colleague today, Minister of Economy, 84% of the funds have gone to regions A and B in the area of the promotion of tourist destinations. There are only 16 of them in regions C and D. The same is true in business zones. We know that it is the construction of business zones that represents one of the key instruments to effectively accelerate tomorrow's investments, which, of course, regions A and B are most thirsty. This will be our most effective response to the problems of unemployment. Here, too, 83% of the funds went to regions A and B after the first call. Similarly, cohesion fund projects, where in fact most major projects will take place in regions A and B. Similarly, we can claim, despite all the different figures, that it also happens with domestic development incentives. We are just finishing the 2003 regional development report. The first numbers that we have, where we actually went home, both direct and direct, developmental incentives, of course, speak contrary to what is being tried to show here. In Pomurje there went 61 000 675 tolars per capita and to the central Slovenian region, where all institutions, universities, etc., were included, 35,000 tolars per capita. Therefore, we cannot say that most of the money flows into more developed regions, but the trend is the opposite. It is true that we cannot expect that the type of investments currently under way, and most of them are taking place in less developed regions, will already have effects today. Let's just say if I look at Zasavje. In Zasavje, investments are currently under way in 12 industrial trade zones. Two major zones have been confirmed, one to be built in Hrastnik, the other in the Rippers. 26 investments are already under way in small and medium-sized enterprises, which will open 319 jobs in the coming years. We went even further in Pomura. We have come to a test in one of the regions which is, of course, the least developed, the so-called pilot approach, how to fully establish development in a particular region. It was created with the great cooperation of all the departments and institutions in the region, the 2004 Pomurje Implementation Plan, which is ranked in eight priority actions, will provide twenty billion investments and 1321 jobs in the Pomur region in the coming years. This is about investments in tourism, investments in agri-food, investments in small and medium-sized enterprises and so on. In this Pomurje we know that Pomurje is also facing one of the lowest or worst health pictures. That is why we have responded in such a way that an integral part and one of the key projects of this implementation plan is the Health Wall project, which will start dealing with this problem at different levels, once again, with the participation of a whole number of ministries. It would be very difficult to say, of course, that in this short period we have solved all the problems. Many problems need to be solved from below. We sincerely wished that part of these problems, how to organise a local development partner, would be properly recorded and reorganised in the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. We know that the government has submitted this law to Parliament. So it was a matter of political will, perhaps less political failure, because I had not considered myself a politician so far and maybe that was my problem. But we hope that this law will see the green light of the world as soon as possible in the new mandate, especially when I can assure you once again that the international study prepared by the international organisation of the OECD, which has just arrived at my club, could no longer confirm the need for solutions in Slovenia, which we have also written into this law. I must say that they are not saying much about how it is necessary to establish the landscapes, but, above all, how we need to establish these development partnerships between the public and private sectors, which, of course, is introduced by our law. Of course, there is a fact, and we do not hide it, that there is more to be done in the area of unemployment and elsewhere. However, if we now invest effectively in business zones and build an active promotion or actively promote investment, which, of course, is also at the regional level, not just at the national level, then we believe that the picture will change. Now there's something else about the invitations themselves. It is true, I myself, many times, that I will say, unrelenting when I see that good projects are falling out because of administrative problems or administrative shortcomings contained in the project documentation. But I warn you, Europe is 150% strict here. Even if we had let such projects go through, we would not have received funds from Europe for such funds. Unfortunately, we will all have to learn here that paper printing is also an important element and detail that we unfortunately have to follow. This is not my personal attachment to this, I am the opposite of myself, but we are not finally operating in a European system and will just have to learn it. Finally, allow me to have two more matters that have also been mentioned here and are related to regional development. This is about cooperation with Slovenians around the world and about the so-called Euroregion. I also agree with myself that we need the Slovenian law around the world as soon as possible. As part of our service, from the simple assumption that our regions, especially less developed, need additional social capital and that we can also find this in Slovenians from the world, we have already launched a promotion action last year, which has now resulted in more than 2,000 businessmen, Slovenians from the world, who are already preparing joint first projects for Slovenia. And the Euroregion. Euroregion, we know it has to be spontaneous, at least that's my view, from below. A lot of activity in this area is already under way. I agree, however, that we need to consider how to organise this at this higher level. I, too, prefer the view that it is likely here to be cautious and to drive the euro area as one. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I call on the Minister of Economic Affairs. Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mr. Kangler in some way threw away a legitimate glove. There are several of us Styrians here, all aware of the importance of polycentric development. And I would like to emphasise, and I am pleased to say that in the Ministry of Economy, as you probably know, there is a public fund for a small economy that plays a key role in the implementation of industrial policy in Slovenia. In 2003, he issued 2.9 billion tolars of favourable loans to 131 small and medium-sized enterprises, which created 573 jobs. In 2004 it was awarded for 2.4 billion tolars of favourable loans received so far by 55 small and medium-sized enterprises. We somehow expect these investments to create 278 jobs. In particular, it should be pointed out that already in 2003 they started implementing the state guarantee scheme, which included in 2004 a European Investment Fund, which cooperates with the public small economy fund, taking up up to 50% of the risk of issuing guarantees for the credits in question. At the same time, 10 Slovenian banks are also included in this state guarantee scheme. It is a priority to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. As I said, this institution is located in Maribor and is also run by Mariborians. And part of the ministry is still in Maribor, which I think is good to contribute to polycentric development and additional perspective, and will remain so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation is also, among other things, a review of the work of the current authorities and it is necessary, because the diversion is much too much and the deception goes beyond all the good taste we have heard recently. It is not normal for a citizen to promise something, to fulfill what he likes, and in four years he promises the same thing again, and the debate on unfulfilled promises calls the poisoning of the atmosphere, because in your view only the government can be spoken of in a pre-election period. Even more, what is normal in democratic countries with us is a peaceful declaration to the eyes that the world does not know it. You said you were surprised at the quality of the document, we could say the same only in the opposite direction, but we are surprised at the quality of the government's work, especially if someone who wants to represent the pensioners is peacefully denying the pensioners for two pensions in the government's mandate. We can ask calmly about the ability of the government, of course, to whom. If we go a little bit in a row. I would start with the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters adopted last year. This one's useless. We all find that, one admits it out loud or we say it out loud, the other say it quietly. That is true, the government itself has proved, because the new law had to be adopted in order to remedy the consequences, since the system adopted last year is also intended for this purpose. That's when we're in the SDS alert to the inadmissibility of the law. Above all, we were talking about eco-payments, for example, for agriculture, but when we mentioned the arguments, the Minister, Mr Copač, then gave, I think there is a big problem if some first read the law at this meeting of the National Assembly, that was the only thing we could hear about our arguments. Of course it's arrogant. The arguments and European practice did not help, but the SDS's view that these eco-payments cannot be taken into account as a reflection on aid in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters, of course, did not help anything, but now we all find that the government's representatives will need to fix this and that this will have to be resolved so that it will not be like a deductible item. At least that's what was announced by the government. What the government will do, of course, is another matter, but we find that this is not right. At that time, we all found that, while it remained, the coalition Slovenia, with some rare individuals, was the only one willing to expose itself for the good of the countryside. After the earthquake in Posoč and after the terrible storm in the Slovenian Horsemen, we were able to make sure that we were right at the time because things were not being resolved by this law. And there's something else that we've read about that marriage before and that we've understood it well. Then, of course, a completely unacceptable statement by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy came, saying that there is no need for State intervention in the Slovenian Horses because it is too little damage. Respected, if in an area where 2,000 buildings are damaged, some 1,200 roofs are leaking at all ends and places to destroy everything in this facility, then it would be difficult to say that such a declaration would be maintained. The fact that there will be no agricultural crops in this area this year and probably the second year will be greatly reduced, as more other crops are damaged this year only, that completely destroyed roofs in kindergartens, in health homes, in cultural homes, at school, in one school, in primary school, were literally swimming that destroyed, so I will say, declared to insurance companies 1000 cars, of course helmets insured. In the case of insurance companies, according to the latest data, the relationship between those with a helmet entitled to this compensation is approximately two and a half to one. I'm not gonna count how many cars that means. And in doing so, her statement, these representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, that there is not enough damage. Yeah, then what was she supposed to be like? Later, this lady is under pressure from journalists, the media, otherwise this statement should be withdrawn, but there was no apology. It would be wise for this government representative to come to the field and perhaps see that each other's roof was green because it was covered with foil and that this could not be restored at once. Because this is an area where major development problems are, of course, alone in this area, we will not be able to repair so much damage. That is why we have addressed three Members from this area to the government, to the Prime Minister for assistance, and there has been nothing. It would probably be something if this representative apologized for that statement she made without looking at the terrain. However, even if a letter were to be received, even if it were a letter, it would probably be necessary to wait a little while for it to be gathered or something similar. But it wasn't any of it. On the other hand, we have been able to find that, less than two months ago, the government even removed the law on more coherent regional development, where it would probably be entirely justified to help, of course, slightly different, but it would have been completely good and would have had its effect. At this same meeting, the government, when it removed this law on more coherent regional development, put on the agenda a law on same-sex partners. What matters more to the government, I will not comment. Apparently, this was more important to them. On the other hand, it must also be said that a new school year is beginning, that in front of this area where this catch has been affected in the Dravina Valley, that it is a new school year and that there are large costs associated with this for school-bound children. In addition, it must be said that there were no payments for last year's drought. On the other hand, the government has not prepared a risk fund for such cases, even though the project was designed in 2002. In doing so, it must be said that the government has had a great deal of will and energy for the wiped-out, where we would generously work hundreds of billions, of course through lawsuits, and today we can be sure that compensation is likely to be compulsory, so at least it has been said on the Committee on Home Affairs. There was about 3 billion damage in the Drave Valley. That means an extraordinary disaster. So this means about a few ten cases of these deleted. However, there is no limit and the greatest concern if they fail in damages - this today we can see for Slovenian Horsemen and this Dravin Valley, and the statement is that the state will not intervene because it is too little damage. 3 billion is too little damage for the state to intervene, and this amounts to about two municipal budgets. Now, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you all: How can this area quickly, since the roof needs to be repaired immediately, intervene with two municipal budgets? There's so much damage. How is that possible? It's not possible, despite the best of wishes. On the other hand, we are prepared without reservation, and we also declare this and implement all possible services of the State in order to pay enormous compensation to those who have been erased. Understand who can. We, who run from our roofs, obviously cannot understand the state's concern for its citizens. That I will not be too long, since my colleagues will also say something else, I will conclude and say that in any case I support this interpretation, I have also signed it. I think it's right for the government to pay its bills for its promises. This means that if we go back to the beginning before you make any promises, we need to think carefully, not keep promising and promise the same things again in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Minister of the Environment, mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u135	There'll be no misunderstandings. Such a statement as you quoted from a representative of the Ministry of the Environment has never been made. Journalist Dinner asked our girlfriend in the public service whether we would mediate and she explained that the procedure was going to be conducted by the Protection and Rescue Administration first to make a census, then the government would adopt a report on the cost of the damage and then adopt the programme. And he wrote that it's not going to happen. But this statement was later denied by this, and it was written by the journalist himself. It doesn't make any sense to make a big story out of one of those journalistic lapsus. There was no such statement. And the government will, of course, react. And the damage list is still running right now. As for your statement that I have ever said that EKO 0 is deducted from the amount of state aid paid, it is a pure fiction. You just made that up. I've never said anything like that. I went to take a special look at the magnetograms before this session because I expected you to tell me something like this, I never said anything like that. And that's not true and they don't count down. Whoever says that makes it up. Evidently, you have read the law now that it has been in force for one year in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u136	Mr Jerovšek, you know exactly how to give the word for the replica. You know, in four years, we've learned this really well. To your word, Mr. Bevek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! On 44 pages, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a long-term interpolation response on 359 pages and argued against the opposition's findings and presented the achievements of the government coalition within the mandate of 2000/2004. The Ministers of the United List of Social Democrats, Culture Minister Andreja Richter, Interior Minister Dr. Rado Bohinc and Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Vlado Dimovski also prepared very reasoned answers. The work of the latter, Dr. Dimovski, or the achievements of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, was particularly highlighted by the Prime Minister in his first speech at the time of the presentation of the government's response. Anton Rop. It is right that the interpolation position has provoked us to prepare a report on our work and the development of Slovenia in the 2000-2004 mandate in the government coalition led by the Government. I do not mind if the report on the work of each government coalition becomes a permanent practice of the National Assembly, but not exactly the last month of the term when the electoral campaign is virtually launched. On this occasion, I would also like to present the positive practice of the Group of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, which has been preparing extensive reports on its work since the beginning of the term of office of the Parliament. This time, too, we have prepared a review of the work of the United Nations Group under the mandate of 2000-2004 on 84 pages in a comprehensive brochure. We have nothing to be ashamed of, we are proud of our work, and we go to this time’s elections with total peace of mind. In the last term, I have particularly closely monitored the work of the Ministry of Culture. The interpreters, led by the champions SDS and NSI, Janša and Bajuk, managed on 44 sides of the interpretation of culture to devote modest six lines. It's better we don't even write them down! The opposition's findings at the work of the Ministry of Culture, successfully led by Minister Andreja Richter, are negligible and extracted from the vine. Of course, a serious observation to a ministry cannot be described as a mere six lines. This means that the intervention against the Ministry of Culture, as well as against the entire government, is an empty shot and will return as a boomerang to the opposition, which, in my opinion, has lost its time, space and orientation in its misuse of the National Council for Pre-electional Purposes. What is the testimony of the opposition to the work of the cultural ministry, which has been able to write it down in three sentences? I repeat: three sentences, six lines. They have observations on the application of the common Slovenian cultural space in the field of natural and cultural heritage, as well as on the functioning of Kobilarna Lipica. Of course, the opposition has not learned enough to determine that the area of natural heritage has been within the Ministry of Environment and Space for many years. The Kobalna Lipica was, in one way or another, a series of years of reflection of the Slovenian People's Party or the agricultural ministry. With regard to the establishment of a common Slovenian cultural space, I would like to mention only one information that the funds allocated to the cultural programmes of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia have grown once faster than the funds allocated to the entire ministry. The Ministry had an index of 127 Slovenian cultural programmes in place and around the world 156. In addition, in the area of cultural exchange in all arts, the Ministry supports a thousand international events. Between 2001 and 2005, 1016 cultural monuments were and will be re-stocked under the programme for this year and next year. Let me mention only some successful actions, such as the renovation of the staircase on the Blejska island, the technical heritage of the Idrijski mine, the Monastery of Kostanjevica on Krka, the Castle of Jablje near Mengš, the Manzioli Palace in Izola and others could be listed. Dearly beloved, the Finance Officer reported today in his contribution "Interpellations sometimes strengthen the opposition and sometimes the coalition" that after their analysis, the interpelled ministers Dr. Rado Bohinc and Dr. Dusan Keber, after a successful defence at the meeting of the National Assembly this spring, had only acquired it. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in this session, that there's going to be a government coalition. [[United List of Social Democrats, Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia]] out as a winner. The opposition, however, seems to be acting on the well-known Olympic password "it is not important to win, it is important to cooperate". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates, Mr Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u139	So after that performance, all I could say was, amen, that's what it was. But look when we're talking about how much written, respected colleagues and colleagues there are. It's a coalition agreement between the current government coalition. The volume of the 101-page promise. On page 101 - it says 100 plus one page was used to write a few thousand vows here at the beginning of this term. We have listed some 100 of these promises that have not been fulfilled in the interpolation, and this is verifiable. We quoted your promises, and then we gave information to government institutions about what the situation is today. Here today we listen mainly to information about what we haven't asked, or the things that we've shown in numbers, you're showing in percentages -- because it might sound better. In fact, most of the cases were not rejected. The lead of the New Town Krka also responded to my performance today. From Krka, it was reported that last September they left the distribution of products that were not in line with the direction of the pharmaceutical industry. They added that Krka did not participate in the selection of new distributors of products. Now just by chance, when Krka left the distribution of these products, including the most famous, this section of Krka led the son-in-law of Mr Kovacic. And then a new distributor went after Chop in Ljubljana and happened to meet her at Chopo Dijano Kovacič, the daughter of Mr Kovacic and offered her distribution. Krka, of course, had nothing to do with this! If that's not customerism, then I really don't know what that word means! And it's too bad that something is being denied that we all know is true. I would also respond to the implementation of the Prime Minister, who said that the government had fulfilled the promises of the Coalition Treaty and that, at that time, it had withdrawn from the economy within four years and had listed the extent to which it had reduced capital investments in the economy. You know, the influence of politics and government goes beyond just capital investment. There are probably other levers; for example, when Mr Thaler arrived at Simmobil because the government has no capital investments, he was a decisive regulator, which the government has in hand, the regulator of the telecommunications market or the telecommunications agency, which the government has in hand, and this is a very strong lever in terms of the situation we have here. In many companies – I have previously listed names, from Lenič to Bavčar, Vonchina and so on – in many companies the government has shares, but in some companies it has no share, but the party in power has its own people there; sometimes you have capital investments and sometimes you have human resources investments and the impact is, of course, the same everywhere. And then we listened here – well, how the government has nothing to do with interfering with the economy, how it doesn't work politically, very clearly speaks the video, which was released twice on commercial TV by POP TV, which shows a conversation between the head of Mercator's administration, where the government has no major capital investments, and the Prime Minister just before he became Prime Minister when he was a finance minister. There was a debate in the former Smelt on the impact of policy on the economy. Following this discussion, Mr Rop, the current Prime Minister, took a step towards Mr Jankovic and called him the following: [[this has already been published twice.]] "You know what, Jankovich, what didn't you say? You didn't say I set you up as director. Yeah, the politics kept you going! Right, politics set you up, I set you up." That is what the current Prime Minister said to the President of the Mercator administration, where the government does not have capital shares. And you may have heard this twice if you were watching a diary or contributions on POP TV, but you may have forgotten. Now, what's he got? Is it what the Prime Minister said on this video, or what we heard today that the government is withdrawing from the economy? In fact, it was not said that the policy was withdrawing, only that the government had reduced its capital shares. So wherever she reduced her capital shares, she set up her own people, or the government party set up their own people. Equally interesting is this emphasis on how this government worked for the poor, for those with low incomes, how it fought for those with low wages and so on. If we look at a little fact, the wage differences, the wage riots in the public sector, and what some say, which are not among the poorest, we see that life has probably gone differently and that policy in power has protected someone else. In last September, when the exchange took place at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank, an interview was published with the former head of the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Voljc, and he probably said a little more. And he's talking about when Mr. Tone Rop was Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister or Minister of Labour, I don't know what he was in 1998, and when he was then a coalition partner, the People's Party, through Marjan Podobnik, demanded a reduction in wages in some state-owned companies. The government then accepted this view at the request of the SLS that these salaries should be reduced by 30%. And it was embarrassing – the public supported it, the LDS had to agree to it, and then they had to explain it to those who actually protect them, although they are not the poorest. And this is what Mr Voljč said in an interview last September: "We were visited at the bank by Minister Tone Rop and Igor Bavčar, both LDS Vice-President, and she suggested that we accept the proposed 30% reduction in wages for which the former Deputy Prime Minister Marjan Podobnik was taking the lead. When we asked them how to compensate, they told us, boys, find yourself! And we hung meetings in the supervisory boards of the daughter's banks, and that's how the matter was resolved." Thus, the government protects the poorest and Mr Voljč is certainly among them and others in these supervisory councils. We heard a lot from the Prime Minister, a very demagogic performance was how this government protected national interest when it did not succumb to pressure to sell banks, how it did not yield to pressure to sell breweries, etc. Now, if this is a national interest and whose position is the government, then I don't know why you're not being consistent, why then the Liberal Democracy sold the Bank of Cyprus to the Italian bank! All the people who have made that decision have been and are still in the Liberal Democracy. After we who pay taxes saved the bank of Cyprus through the resolution of the General Navigation, it was sold to the Italian bank. The people who made that decision - complete LDS! Why did people from LDS sell Istria Benz pumps to Austrians in elite locations if this is how they protect national interest and if what Mr Rop said earlier is a national interest? Make up your mind what it is now. Then we heard a praise here on how a social agreement has been reached between the social partners, that wages for 1% will be lagging behind in productivity growth. This is a good thing, such a social arrangement and a social agreement, if people, if the social partners agree to save money while they have the right, will not raise, so I do not know that we will develop more in a little while and that this will invest in smart investments. But where did they go, where did this saved deal go? On a luxury government plane that was not on any program, in the political assemblies that you are organizing now before the elections. I ask the Prime Minister publicly again: How much will this pre-election performance cost on Sunday at Pokljuka or Saturday? Here we have an invitation - "We invite you to a meeting of veterans for peace. The meeting was opened by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, the police, etc., the Triglav National Park. The festive speaker of mags. Anton Rop." Suddenly, on the first day of the election campaign, the Prime Minister reminded himself to talk to veterans. There is a huge meeting with games, etc. sponsored by four or five government institutions for taxpayers' money, which was not planned in any budget, in no programme, and there will be no President of the State speaking, for example, who is the nominal commander of the Slovenian army, but will suddenly speak to the Prime Minister, who is not even a veteran. You say that this is an interpretation and this abuse of Parliament and that we are making costs. Parliament has just so much "cost" if we are sitting here or if we are not sitting here, in fact, if the ministers are sitting here, I think that food is even cheaper for taxpayers, because they don't spend as much at this time as they do otherwise. I am really asking the Prime Minister how much it will cost and whether this is an abuse of tax money. How is it that for the first time in history, at the start of an election campaign, such an assembly? And as far as I know, there's still a few planned! So, if you'll excuse me when you speak - and here I am thinking also of the distinguished President of the National Assembly - that this debate in Parliament is some kind of abuse, you remember a little bit about what you're doing in this campaign for taxpayer money. We have also heard here that although the government has failed to implement many of these promises, it has adopted programmes. We have heard the Prime Minister say that backlogs are a problem, but it is not true that we have done nothing. We've made a program. This is what we hear last August 2004, one month before the elections. Why didn't you do this program at the beginning of your term and it would have been one of those. Then we heard that it wasn't true that we didn't do anything to relieve the lowest layers. We have passed the Income Act, which will enter into force on 1 January the following year, after the second term. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen, you have done nothing with this law. It is quite possible that if you win the elections again, you will have enough time to change it before it enters into force on 1 January next year. And a number of such laws are, however, adopted, the period of validity or the entry into force of implementation is in the following year. That's not what a nun's made of if that's how it's done. Also, the Public Sector Salaries Act, adopted in 2002 - it is still a completely disabled thing because the government has not prepared tariff work and other sub-laws. Also about foreign investment. The government has done a lot because a law has been passed to promote foreign investment. When the law was passed - July this year, just before the end of the term! And so on. We heard the Prime Minister speak, the government has succeeded, the rate of poverty has fallen. Yeah, I guess it is - but for who? For those who give 500 tolls for a parcel by the sea, the rate of poverty has certainly fallen. For those who pay EUR 2,000 per square meter of housing in Ljubljana or in the centres, the rate of poverty did not fall. And before that, I read a letter from a man who normally works, the whole family, and he doesn't feel like he's joined the most developed. The government has misled much by claiming that economic growth in Slovenia was greater than in the old EU Member States. That's a percentage of what he's holding. Now let us see what 1% of economic growth is in Slovenia or Germany. If national income increases gross domestic product per capita by 1% in Slovenia, it is € 210 per capita. 210 euros. If the gross domestic product per capita in Germany grows, it is €850 per capita. 850 euros. Which, of course, means that our growth in percentages must be several times higher than that of percentages in developed countries in order to catch them. It doesn't help us if it's 1% bigger, because we don't even keep behind, but we're going backwards. So - these things are important! Juggling with percentages is, of course, very good for misleading the public. Even when it comes to state aid, it is necessary to consider where the greatest effects will be. We never said that this state aid was for the Redundancy money that was thrown away. However, we have summarized the scepticism of some economists, Dr. Mencinger, Dr. Mark Jaklič of the Economic Faculty, who have asked the question as to whether it would not be possible to invest these 10 billion better, because the funds are limited and whenever the government spends 10 billion taxpayers' money, it must be asked whether this is really the best way to achieve economic development and economic growth or if there is no other way to achieve better success. At the end of the day, I would also say that in this reply given by the government to the interpretation, there are many things for which we do not ask questions at all in the interpretation, but there are also very interesting things. The government speaks on more than 300 pages about the work under this mandate. The first part of this mandate, in fact the longer part of this mandate, was the current Prime Minister of the Republic, Drnovšek. Not once has been mentioned on these 350 pages. Not once. Someone has tried very hard to delete the name of the previous Prime Minister from this document. Everyone's been mentioned. For example, Belarusian President Lukashenko is mentioned in this government report. Dr. Drnovšek never. Of course, the new Prime Minister, Mr Rob, is mentioned. Just like some kind of interesting thing that might tell you a lot. So we believe that the government does not have to write 350 pages to say that we went to the European Union, to NATO and that Slovenia has evolved. We know that Slovenia has developed at this time, and we are happy about it. However, we regret the lost opportunities that we have not seized because of poor governance with the country, because of the ineffective spending of public money, saved money for throwing away sides, for luxury, for wealthing around the state administration and for expensive political gatherings, which you are now doing, as is the so-called veteran meeting. And another thing is, corruption and clientism are not just something that concerns a narrow criminal area. This also concerns economic growth and development. If there is a Liberal democracy everywhere, then the one who is best, but the one who is from the Liberal Democracy, should also win the public tenders. And that's why things are paying more and the services are getting worse. And in recent years, this has been a practical rule in large public tenders. This is how we expect in these coming hours and minutes of debate that something will also be said about how the government will try in this last month's term a taddenar, which remains in its budget, to devote something useful, not to organising political assemblies, but to various openings. [[Black Kala]] just before the elections, laying the foundation stones on schools, opening schools that have been built for some time, but for the fact that it will really feel that Slovenia has entered the circle of developed countries, something that will generally be present, not only between the membership of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, but among all citizens in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Four ministers will try to answer you. In order of order: Mr Lahovnik, Mr Gantar, Mr Grizold and Mr Kopač. Minister Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u141	Thank you very much. If I go in line and if we take the year 2003, the economic growth in Germany was negative, minus 0.1%, and in Slovenia 2.3%, so that your thesis is somehow not consistent and does not hold back. If I go further, what you're talking about is the withdrawal of the state from the economy, the withdrawal from the parastatal funds, the withdrawal of the parastatal funds from the ownership structure of enterprises. At the end of 1999, the government, together with the parastatal institutions, the capital company and the Slovenian compensation company, had 1,167 investments in Slovenian companies, in June 2004 only 634 more. It is said that this number of investments has decreased by more than 40% and that the impact of the country is also appropriate. You'll say, if you want, even politics, if you take that, to the economy. The second thing, however, is inconsistent here and needs to be stressed. By the way, Mr Jankovic was not appointed head of the Mercator administration at the time, but was appointed to the Supervisory Board by a Slovenian compensation company, which you can verify, it is verifiable. What needs to be stressed and what surprises me is that, on one hand, you point out that it is necessary to sell the New Bank of Maribor and the New Ljubljana Bank to foreigners as soon as possible, although a model was set up by Nova Ljubljanska Banka: a third of its domestic owners, a third of its domestic institutional owners and a third of its foreign strategic partner, you have been somewhat explicit about selling to foreigners. On the other hand, in the case of Bank Koper, which was owned by private owners, the LDS is evident why it did not prevent the sale of Bank Koper to Italians, San Paolo Imi. So you assume that the LDS should politically intervene, order private owners not to do so, and thus interfere with the economy. That would be state interventionism – that's what you said, I'm just summarising your claims, even from magnetograms, you can see that that's how it is. And that's where you see this inconsistency. Next thing. When you mentioned this investment in Revoz, we just wanted to talk about real data. You also said here: "If this money were deposited differently, 8,000 jobs would be created in four incubators." And you referred to a report by the European Commission stating that the job in the incubator costs 4,500 euros. Of course, you did not say - then, of course, you shared €40 million of aid to Revoz with €4,500 and reached 8,000 jobs. Of course, you forgot to say that this same report says there are approximately 900 incubators in the European Union who create about 30,000 jobs a year. This is about 33 jobs per incubator per year, and in these four incubators, they would have stopped 132 jobs, let's say 150. But in this way you would get these 8 thousand jobs there in 53, 54 years; it is said, somewhere between 2055 and 2060. For most citizens and citizens of Slovenia, however, this is a little late. And I want to tell you again, this comes out of this report and needs to be read in full. And even though we forget that this is some sort of report from the European Commission that promotes incubators, it also, of course, shows that it cannot possibly be an alternative to this state support given by the State to the investment in Revoz, which will create 2,800 new jobs and, again, I stress, the French will add 360 million euros to these 40 million euros and double the production of cars in Revoz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Pretty, I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[...]] [[Questions from the bench.]] Because you didn't discuss it in front of the minister, and I'm asking for really replicas. [[The ad from the bench.]] As a proponent? Yeah, well, we'd say that, but there's no need for any excitement. As a candidate, you will be given the floor once the ministers have finished their discussions. Mr. Janša, could he have it now because he was discussing it? In the Rules of Procedure, ours [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] First thing you don't have is I'm going to read it to you right now, and I'm going to give it to Dr. Gantar. [[...]] [[...]] Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It was worth it to be in the hall, I have to say. I heard some very interesting statement that I have to respond to. Mr Janša admitted, however, that he probably did not appoint the LDS as director or president of the Simobil administration, but that he appointed him - say and write and hear - the regulator. That's what a telecommunications, broadcasting and mail agency means. This is the regulator in this area. This is a statement which, in my opinion, will go into the anal nonsense and this big nonsense, because if you have read the first statements - I have read them carefully - the new President of the Simobili administration, this was extremely critical of the state regulator. We can expect this new President of the Management Board to negotiate very strongly with the regulator. Now I really want to know: the President of the Simobili administration appoints who is in foreign ownership, Austrian ownership, appoints a national regulator, and this same Simobil claims that this national regulator has not done enough for greater competitiveness and thus also for greater business success, so they say, Simobili. It doesn't work together. That story doesn't work out for you. These stories either belong to complete ignorance or belong to some, something to say, strange spheres that, of course, neither does politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, it won't look like anyone's taking anything from you, which is what you like to point out. We would have the right to a replica, as far as the debate of the speaker relates to your debate, if we thought that your debate was misunderstood and misinterpreted. The condition is that you spoke to the minister and he quoted you. However, you note from it that you have been misquoted by Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, that we do not take precious time to this assembly. Thank you very much. May I have Dr. Grizold's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just a brief explanation to Mr. Janša. At the end of this week, the meeting is organized by two organisations: the Union of Veterans of the War for Slovenia and the North Association. I myself have been invited to attend this meeting as the Secretary of Defense. This invitation says that both organizations were invited as the festive spokesman for the Magi. Anton Ropa, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia organizes this meeting, but these two organisations, given that the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia has been working with the Slovenian Army for all these years, I expect such a request, as I have received from all sides, including this Parliament, for any logistical support or use, to say what kind of territory. I don't know. I got this invitation today. [[...]] So, so much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Please give your word from this place, and Dr. Bayuk I expect you to apologize to me for not having any right to insult me from the bench, even if you're not attached. This shows your political culture, but I have interpreted the rules of procedure quite correctly. To the word of the Minister, Mr. Digač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u147	Since Mr Janša has already mentioned the case of someone who is staying, if I understand correctly, in a non-profit apartment in Šostjanje and has difficulty in paying rent because of his poor income position, let me say that in the course of last year, after lengthy discussions in this Parliament, we have adopted a housing law in which, unlike the existing housing law, which was adopted at the time of the Demos' government, we have substantially changed the subsidy policy in non-profit housing. It used to be a subsidy - it was called objective. In short, different heights depending on what type of non-profit apartment you lived in, the year you got this apartment. It is now subject to this policy, which means that it refers to or refers to the specific income of a specific tenant in a non-profit apartment. And the subsidy is possible up to 80% of the rent. She wasn't possible before, now she's enlarged. In short, the possibility of subsidies for income-deficits or non-profit renters is now significantly greater than before the entry into force of this housing law. And every tenant in a non-profit apartment has the right to request such a subsidy from the congregation, the specific municipality of Šostjanj, and, of course, it is also his duty to provide it. In doing so, I must say that there is a significant improvement in the situation of profitablely weak tenants in non-profit apartments in view of the previous law, and I hope that this opportunity will also be used by your correspondent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u148	Thank you very much. And the Minister, Mrs. Kovaceva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I also need to add my views or information, honourable Members and Members, on the dilemma, or just support large investments or incubators. It looks like we don't care about both the medals in Slovenia. However, it must be said that in the New Town, in Zasavje, in Posavje, in Celje, in Posoč, in Pivka and in Pomurje, and in Gorenjska, the incubators are already operating or are already operating in these regions, who have been supported either by international projects and Phara funds or by a number of direct incentives. In two cases, state property was also transferred to the municipalities - in the case of Tolmina and in the case of Pivka, where the incubator will be created. In short, we are of course assessing that there is a need for both: and the promotion of large investments and, of course, the possibility of opening small businesses through incubators. It also creates a series of technological development centres in all regional centres, and this is, of course, in regions A and B, through direct incentives. Just as much as more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Bajuk can now be a proponent peacefully. He doesn't want to. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u151	Look, just for a little while. Now here we have heard Minister Kovaceva say that Slovenia has incubators and that they work well. And before that, we heard Mr. Lakhovnik say that it's a lousy thing that investing in incubators just means some bad investment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u152	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u153	I'm sorry, come on! [[...]] We've all heard, we can read the magnetogram, we can make a comparison of when such an investment would have effects. Make a difference between each other or the incubators are a good thing and we have or are a bad thing that doesn't work, and we don't have them. Two ministers of the same government speak differently. Second. I ask Minister Kovach if the Prime Minister has already proposed a replacement? For not so long ago in this National Assembly, we discussed the Prime Minister's proposal to replace the Foreign Minister, because he went to the Republican Assembly, to another assembly that is not governmental. That's what the replacement statement said. You're running on another party's list, which is not in the government either, and you're obviously not being proposed for a replacement, which means the Prime Minister has double criteria. As far as the bank is concerned, Mr Lahovnik, the LDS did not have to intervene in this case, because in the administration and supervisory council that sold the bank of Cyprus, only the LDS was. They could have made the choice as they were, or otherwise, and decided to sell it. LDS members sold the Bank of Cyprus. That's probably why the government didn't intervene. It was the same thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u154	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u155	when Mr Chok, a known name in the LDS, was also politically clear. [[...]] So, the thing here is this one time, the other time it's different. As far as Mr Gantard is concerned, Mr Thaler has made a good one following the appointment of a statement reflecting that he is not satisfied with the telecommunications market. We now have on one side the President or Director of the Telecommunications Agency, who is the regulator. I didn't say the regulator was pushing, I said it had an impact. This regulator is appointed by the government. You say he's independent, but you call him. The Minister of Information Society, which covers this area, is a member of the Liberal Democracy. And now you say there's a conflict of interest. Maybe there is, I'm just sure that this conflict of interest is getting significantly smaller when all three members of the LDS, who are in conflict of interest, get to a meeting of the world or some other LDS body. At that time, this conflict of interest is substantially reduced. Therefore, do not talk about how the matter is transparently arranged. As far as Mr. Secretary of Defense is concerned. I didn't ask who signed the invitation. I asked who was paying for it. Because it says here that the meeting was made materially possible by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, the police, which means that the matter is not something you expect to receive, but it says that you have already made it possible. I ask you how many taxpayers we will give for this so that the Prime Minister will speak at the start of the campaign at this assembly. And there will be no abuse of public money, of course, only Members who have a mandate until the end of this term, are allegedly abusing the National Assembly because we are discussing what the government has done and what the government has not done. Mr. Lahovnik, I ask you: How much tax on profits did Revoz pay last year? How big is this number compared to the other companies? And I'm asking him, where was the last line that was installed in Revos that was built? Who did Renault pay for it, and who did Revos pay? And what was the difference in these prices, because on this basis you can see exactly where the profits are flowing in multinationals. If you have these answers, the matter will be perfectly clear. Otherwise, we may rightly suspect in the opposition that some euro has also gone to pay a French adviser who advises the Liberal Democracy before every election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u156	First Minister, Mr. Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Of course, when I was talking about incubators, your representative faced me, these supposed shadow governments, in Odessa and somehow expressed his thoughts with this government support of the Revos. He said, "You're stupid because you supported it, you should invest it in incubators." Of course, the government supports incubators, even three university incubators, and there are also jobs, I have only presented to you precisely, even according to the reports of the European Commission, how many jobs and, of course, incubators cannot be alternatives in this respect, a substitute for these direct foreign investments, as the other developed European countries are equally promoting foreign direct investment that creates new quality jobs. I gave you an example of Slovakia, which you like to mention, the place of Trnava, where PSA opened a car factory, the place of Kolin in the Czech Republic, Valladolida in Spain, where a new model mode is produced, also from the Czech Republic we know the case of Mlade Boleslav, where damage is produced. And, of course, I said that since 2007, a completely new technologically developed X-44 model will be produced in New City and that this will preserve the existing 2,100 jobs, additionally create 700,2800, and that according to conservative estimates we count on 500 additional suppliers. That was an argument. Now, because you deserve a concrete answer, honourable Member, Mr Janša - you have asked a specific question. In the last year, Revoz paid taxes and contributions of 3.2 billion, plus a billion more 274 million different taxes, including income tax, value added tax, motor vehicle tax and vehicle decommissioning. Of course, even if you make a very conservative calculation, you will quickly find that this investment returns in more than three years ago and that these state funds have been very usefully loaded here. This information is publicly available. And if what you say is true, I now ask you publicly why all the countries of the European Union are so stupid that they equally promote foreign direct investment like Slovenia. You said, your representative spoke, incubators are an alternative to this Revoz investment, I said myself, it's not true, they can be complemented, not substituted. It would be very serious to joke about 3,300 created jobs, of which 2,800 in Dolenjska; no one would want to create a social bomb there in 2007, if the production of clia stopped. Clio will no longer be produced since summer 2006 because his life expectancy is running out and the government's decision has been very rational. I will be specific again because you also asked about the production line. The manufacturers of Slovenian industrial equipment Indop have already participated in the construction of the existing line production, there is, I don't know, a 5, 10m press, which they will proudly present to you, only if you visit Revoz, you are from Dolenjska and the New Town is not far away and you will be able to see that it is a very rational investment. And here, as I said, funds will quickly recover, and this will also allow Slovenian suppliers to better join the multinational chain and thus create additional jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, then Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u159	It's really very short. I must say, with the meeting of the three LDS who have a conflict of interest, there will be nothing. Mr Simic [[I have to mention the name]] , Director of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency, of course he is not a member of the LDS, he is a member of the Electrotechnical Association of Slovenia. I have no idea who she wants, if she wants to. But I think I know who will not vote in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u161	Well, of course, this is a question, Mr Gantar, but who is the President of the Electrotechnical Union of Slovenia. If we know that the President of the Bar is an LDS official, Mr Kozinc, that the President of the Athletic Union is Mr Jakič, President, I do not know, Mr Anderlič's Auto-Moto Sports Association; in short, this is very dispersed. Whether he is a member of the LDS or not, he was appointed by the LDS government, and you cannot say that he is immune to any influence on your part, because that is ridiculous. We know about Mr Thaler that he was in the leadership of the LDS and he's probably still, and so are you. And it's a little strange to talk about a conflict of interest. Mr. Lakhovnik, I asked you only for one tax; the tax on the payroll and on the other costs of work, that is what everyone pays. What is the criterion of whether an investment is good or not is not the question of how much these fixed benefits are paid, but how much it brings, how much it makes. And the country, of course, takes it out of profit. After what you said, the whole company paid taxes on three things, including profit, a little over a billion. There are probably many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Slovenia who pay just as much profit tax or even more. And once again, we didn't say that money was thrown away. Other European countries also benefit from such State aid, absolutely. The question is, however, for any such concrete state aid, whether it really had to be given 10 billion in order to ensure that the same production could not be maintained for a little less – the negotiations were untransparent. And the opposition asked a question about this after six months, and in the meantime they were asked by economists, including your professors. The most skeptical questions to this government intervention were raised by the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Mencinger. Dr. Marko Jaklič wrote an extensive article in the Saturday Annex in July this year, where he called this issue "moral gambling"; he was probably also your professor in economic college. And, excuse me, if your professors question what you're doing, the opposition has that right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Three replicas. Mr. Lahovnik, Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Jakič. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Janša. Moral gambling would be playing with 2800 jobs in Dolenjska, New Town. So if the government didn't decide on this support. The second time you faced the Tarč show with the Prime Minister, Mr Mag. Robbery, I quote you, you said, "Tax is tax. It doesn't matter what kind of tax it is when we pay the bills, we don't care." And once again, Revoz paid more than or exactly a billion 274 million income taxes last year, value added, vehicle decommissioning taxes and motor vehicle taxes, plus additional taxes and wage contributions of 3.2 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u165	Correction of the indication. I am not the President of the Auto motto of the union, as was said this morning, this is an organisation from the previous regime that is obviously still in your ears, but I am President of Auto Sport 2005. It's a association of societies. And I would be unhappy if, in this assembly or anywhere in Slovenia, that Members and all citizens would not be able to unite and organise civil society. I would be even more sad if Mr Janša could not play golf in Mauritius and think about the poor citizens of Slovenia. I would be even more unhappy if I could not participate in the Grosuplje Golf Club, in the "Fousbal Club Grosuplje" as a civilian, as a citizen of this country. And of course I would be sad if Mr Peterle, for example, could not be President of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'd like to respond to a statement. Mr Janez Janša has been pushing me into his famous column "clientism and corruption" for some time now, of course, regarding my function and engagement in the Athletic Union of Slovenia. That, as far as I'm concerned, is rude and, of course, offensive. Personally, I attribute this to the typical jealousy and the "fosher" carried out by Mr Janša. In fact, if he wants to become president of the Athletic Union of Slovenia, he should also appear with his programme and team at the election assembly and try to be elected. His client colleague failed to do so and gave up that responsibility or feared that responsibility. I suspect Mr Janez Janša that in the event of my failure to manage athletics, he would "past" because athletes and athletes are the pride of the nation and achieve extraordinary results, Mr Janez Janša, of course, and that is why he is willing to "screw" suppress everyone and discredit them. If Mr Janez Janša were "a man like himself" then Athlete ties, athletes and athletes would, of course, congratulate him for his success at the Olympics. Congratulations from him, the only one, of course I didn't get.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Jansha Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u169	I don't know. I congratulated those who have won the medals for their success. I didn't know I had to congratulate the officers. I never read Mr. Jakic's clientelism and corruption because he's the president of the athletic union. If it works well, thank God. All I did was describe the situation in this country of the Liberal Democracy, after it had occupied the executive power, when the opposition in public funds and in public enterprises expanded to the so-called civil sphere. Perhaps he was the most successful in his program, but it is only surprising that only the card of the Liberal Democracy thus contributes to the ability of people to do so. I don't know, even this new membership of the new ministers in the Liberal Democracy is a little surprising It's not a few months since we've been sitting in this room, we've been listening to the Prime Minister talk about how the government has strengthened itself with the independent experts who are the best in the profession and so on. Everyone stressed that they were not in any party. The ink has not yet dried in the newspapers, it has already been published that they are in the Liberal Democracy and that they are candidates. So much for these things. Nor do we report to Mr Anderlich on the work he does in civil society organisations. However, I am very interested in the fact that if he is no longer a high-ranking official of Liberal Democracy, if he is still so interested in these organisations, and if the matter continues to be such that the Liberal Democracy will indeed be the most capable for every single thing in this country. I can see they're wearing a beekeeping relationship. When Mr. Anderlič earlier tried to name someone other than the LDS or the United List on a function, he stopped at number 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u171	A very brief explanation or answer to Mr Janša's question about this meeting or this event. First of all, I would like to correct it for the sake of correctness: the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia and the North Veteran Association and no one else. And the presidents of these two organisations are also signed. As far as the Ministry of the Interior or the police are concerned, let me say that they are participating in the organisation of sports games, traditionally and that neither the Ministry nor the police nor the Tolar of Taxation money are contributing to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u173	Look, I'm a member of a veteran organization, I know how these things went, I know who gave the initiative, I know what the controversy was about this, I know where the initiative came from, I know about how much it would cost, and I don't say that it happened by accident - please! And they wouldn't have asked me that question. First of all, it's not big money, it's not important to the state. I put it back because here we have heard even from the President of the National Assembly that we are abusing the National Assembly for some pre-election purposes. For the first time, the campaign has not started at all; for the second time, even if the campaign starts, the National Assembly can work normally and it costs nothing. You all get the same salary, the staff in the National Assembly get the same salary, it's all the same, whether we're sitting here or not. There's no abuse, no extra cost. And these are the extra costs, they're not big, they wouldn't mention them if they didn't turn things around like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We can close this circle, so I invite Mrs Shirca to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I am glad that this circle has ended, even because WD40, which we have all afternoon or all day on the table, would no longer be used. We know that this spray of soft - brown surfaces, and the stories we are hearing today about newspaper and other intrigues, have been heard many times, and therefore, of course, there is no point in defrosting them with this liquid. Of course, reference to the press and newspaper articles to the poverty of someone who does not actually encounter poverty where it is, but where the surfaces are much greener, it is questionable. The newspaper articles in the context of interpolation in general, especially in the context of that point of your program, about which we have already had quite a few pianist warnings about freedom of public information and your programme, understanding the media, which reportedly have not changed the mindset of the totalitarian system further, as it says. But I didn't want to talk about it. I wanted to talk about the fact that I was pleasantly surprised and, in fact, I am quite pleased that in the area of culture, the area of interpeelers was particularly often in mind, heart and soul, when connected with national interest and with national identity, devoted to 6.5 lines. This means that we are facing a successful culture, although we believe it is necessary to complement something with those coalition and programming guidelines that we have not yet completed or implemented to the extent that we could. However, it is also true that the opposition has focused primarily on one segment of the culture issue over the last four years and perhaps even more, the issue that touches on the assessment of media or media pluralism with repeated demands and also on the legal proposals for a so-called media fund to finance politics or political press. The fact is that this satisfaction, I will say, is also due to the fact that listening to certain options, especially around the New Magazine, which, as we sometimes see, has enough money, is satisfactory and is also acceptable to the opposition. As far as the only three points within 6.5 lines or almost seven lines are concerned, let me point out that discontent over the promotion of Slovenian culture abroad, with which we cannot always be satisfied by ourselves, because it is one very complex and long process, which now has great success, especially when Slovenian culture is increasingly present abroad and also successful in European funds and funds, when it is identifiable, but still we are pleased that it has arrived in recent months, even in recent months, when we meet the promises and visions of the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, who sees synergies within culture and foreign policy, so much more. In the context of the questions of Lipic, which, however, are a consequence of the fact that a certain resource is, I will not say, a key political move within this segment, we are also facing progress in recent times, stressing that the cultural heritage, as recorded there, has never been neglected in this context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u176	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. [[He's not here.]] Minister Dimovski. [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite the Kramberger Master to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We can understand this meeting today as some kind of inventory at the end of the term. It is right to recall the achievements that the government has made in this mandate and to draw attention to the irregularities that are taking place in our country. Membership in the European Union and in relation to NATO, these were the priorities of this country and this is undoubtedly a success. We have adopted many laws following an urgent procedure, and I am sure that many of us or our craftsmen will still have to correct them. In my debate, I would like to draw attention to some irregularities. I would like to mention the market economy, demographic policy and also employment policy. Colleagues and colleagues, when I read the government's answers to the questions raised in the interpellation these days, I found that politics has drifted away from people. It is obvious that from a governmental point of view you do not see everyday problems that plague citizens and, above all, those who create new values. I can even find that Slovenia, in terms of the development of democracy and the market economy, has deteriorated from the years it began. The government has failed to create a favourable environment for development and innovation in the economy, agriculture and entrepreneurship. We are witnessing an extremely complicated process for opening companies. The payment discipline is at such a low level and, in the case of ineffective court, a company that has no dedicated bots, shuts down and goes bankrupt. The economic policy, which is fully guided and dictated by the pace of one policy option, which is largely dominated by Slovenian economic space, has led to Slovenia, instead of developing healthy competition, mainly monopolies in those areas that are most profitable. These are: retail trade, telecommunications, energy supply, banking and insurance. Although we have legislation in Slovenia that is almost completely regulated, what happens when it comes to real matters? We almost cannot believe that we would have a lack of economic initiative. It is more likely that companies and their owners share in the so-called 'our' and 'not our', that is to say the ones that need to be allowed or helped by development, and those that are not worth or should be hindered by it. We have real competition today mainly in the field of manufacturing companies, because our market for products is relatively open, competition is subject to still medium and small enterprises, which are squeezed by large customers with prices and payment conditions. So we have competition where we're actually creating a new value. However, competition is not in trade, as I mentioned earlier, telecommunications, banking and insurance. Colleagues and colleagues, we are witnesses to monopolies that typically bring disproportionately high profits, and they are mainly interested in "well-informed" investors who would like to find more lasting guarantees for the award of profits. Of course, it is best that they become owners of such companies, even if such companies have a good relationship with the ruling policy, since they are thus guaranteed the government's favor when it sets prices or otherwise affects the extent of their profits. True, some of the great monopolies are still state-owned. Usually, some private top and essential suppliers are attached or hanged to them, ensuring that the state monopoly can function normally and that some accumulations are also normally drained. Colleagues and colleagues, as far as demographic policy is concerned. When a young person is looking for his first job after school, he faces an almost insurmountable obstacle. We should do much more to make it easier for young people to get a suitable job, for this is the only one that can enable them to create a family. If we want to improve the demographic structure of the population, it is necessary to try to raise fertility before extreme measures such as immigration increase. However, the birth rate is not raised by practically preventing young women from working daily for more than 100 km to the workplace, so that the age at which they decide to have their first child rises to about 30 years. The birth rate increases by giving parents of young children benefits, as they too may have to give up on a variety of comforts at that time. Gardens are far too expensive and cannot be the exclusive concern of the congregations. Housing policy for young families is not regulated, in fact it is not. The state should invest more in new citizens and the new citizens are no longer in themselves a reasonable fact. As far as job search is concerned. It is sad to hear when high school students as a goal of life set employment in a state administration. They say there's no other option for them who don't know anyone. They do not know, however, that there are also more than 100 candidates applying for individual public tenders published by the national institutes. That then more than ten or a hundred of them carry out tests of knowledge, that many of them meet the required formal conditions, some even go to the interview, and eventually inform them that someone else has been chosen, or even that no one has met the tendering conditions. The service can practically not be obtained without knowledge or proper lobbying. Providing social assistance to workers cannot be a solution. The unemployment allowance should only be a temporary solution, not a very convenient one for a lot of people, since it throws almost as much compensation as it would if it worked. It is therefore essential to provide jobs. The capital must also have a certain social function, but not only serve a small part of citizens who had the chance to better participate in privatisation. Colleagues and colleagues! I also want to mention the attitude towards the congregations. I can see that, in this mandate, the attitude towards municipalities has changed for the worse. This government coalition is simply not inclined, not only to the increase of municipalities, but also to such local self-governments, where they carry the lowest level of local self-government. I am convinced that the money we spend on the municipalities is well invested and that if we raised the right spending by 20%, we would also be able to contribute a lot to decentralisation, and this could significantly spend more money on building infrastructure in also demographically threatened areas. Colleagues and colleagues! I also need to mention some of the infrastructure problem. See, building a highway from Maribor to the state border with Hungary. We well know that traffic on this regional road has increased dramatically since May 1st this year. There's loads of trucks rolling down this regional road. The dynamics of building this part of the highway slowed down and drifted away due to certain political priorities. It is interesting, however, that government officials recently promised everything in Gornja Radgona. He was even Prime Minister, and also Minister of Transport, that this part of the highway would be built up in an accelerated manner. I want to know what the position will be after October 3rd. These promises are actually twisted from the vine. It would be only normal for members of the National Assembly to decide here in this room to change the annual plan and to change the priority of highway construction. That would be a guarantee, not just such promises. Autocesteso, of course, is urgently needed and construction should be a priority in the part where more traffic is involved and, of course, where the safety of road users is at risk. There are daily accidents in this area from Maribor to the state border with the Republic of Hungary. I'd like to finish this with my colleagues and colleagues. I'll give my colleagues some more time. However, I would only like to ask my colleague, Dr Grizold, Minister of Defence, to answer the question raised by my fellow Member, Franz Kangler. Maybe Dr. Grizold will be back. Thank you very much. ???
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to the floor. Dr. Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u179	Thank you so much for this time. I'll try very hard for a while. In today's debate there was a whole series of data and similar discussions. Of course, it is possible to answer certain questions in a general way, but of course also with individual data. In one part, it was said that, say, the waiting period for employment is increasing. That's not true. In fact, between 2000 and 2004, the waiting period for employment fell by almost one year and the proportion of those who are long-term unemployed over one year is less than 50%. And some of these things can also be said later, for example with regard to the degree of calculating the risk of poverty and so on, the methodology is the same as for all the countries of the European Union. We are calculating ourselves this way and in response to the interpolation on pages 91 and 92 we have very precisely explained this methodology. As for now the discussions that have been about family policy, let me just answer some of these questions. What Mr. Podobnik said in his speech was, in a way, for the last period, a few steps have been taken, including that there has been an incentive for employers to employ young mothers and so on, an opportunity for shorter working hours, that this is one of the most effective measures, that it is also, in fact, the possibility of maternity leave to be used by fathers and so on, these are all the gains brought by the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. It wasn't there before. In fact, certain things are only with this mandate, but in fact the cycle of so-called family policy or family policy has ended since 1993 and we are now practically in the final stages of preparing for a new cycle, the so-called national programme for the care and protection of children. However, we have already talked about this a lot in this state, and in my opinion it is only necessary to stress this, because some discussers have in some ways equated population policy or demographic policy with family policy. It's not like that. Family policy is in fact a more complex matter, and in some ways it also allows for coordination in family and professional life, which is a fact. However, there are also different concepts to the population policy, and I do not want to see public policy, as many textbooks say, being a state policy. I think we are a modern society that also requires a modern type of policy. Finally, the honourable Member would say essentially what you were saying about the relationship between financial social assistance and compensation. Both monetary social assistance and compensation are short-term. Of course, by increasing the effectiveness of the distribution of monetary social assistance, compensation, etc., of course, we have greatly increased, as shown by international studies, the effectiveness of unemployment benefits and financial social assistance. The information system, as previously asked, has not evolved since this year, but practically since the first day, it has been said since the end of Wednesday, December 2000. But it's an extremely complex information system, which has nine blocks, seven blocks are practically built. But it is millions of data and it is necessary that in some ways these transfers get some more efficient and transparent basis. It seems to me that it is briefly about this, but of course there are some other questions.I hope that I will have a few more opportunities to say this. Let me say that we have also received data on unemployment surveys, Mr Drobnic, which is one of the lowest unemployment rates for the second quarter of 2004 - 6.1. This result, in fact, we have already said at the outset that the issue of unemployment, economic growth depends largely on activity, on the dynamics in our largest export markets, so of course the correlation between our export markets, our products, services, etc., and economic growth and the level of unemployment, is somehow correlated. This is information because in fact you had some discussions on the subject of the unemployment rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Before I invite you to the next word, Mr Kramberger, let me just bring you a message. The Minister of Defense, Dr. Grizold, will attempt to fully answer the questions that are being asked tomorrow. Today, many of these issues are, of course, beyond the indications that they have been interpreted, so it is important to understand that ministers and ministers have the opportunity, and also the right and at the same time the duty to obtain data in the work where your questions today go beyond the indications in the interpretation. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Mr. Petty Officer, you didn't discuss it in front of the Nimaté replica. [[...]] You don't have a replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u181	Because he quoted me, he didn't mention my name, but he did. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u182	Mr Drobnic, please see, the same goes for you as was the case for everyone today in the debate and for all these four years. Please! No, Mr. Tiny, you don't have a word for it. I invite you to the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u183	Actually, Bernick should be talking in my day, but we didn't say that. The minister quoted me. I have the right to a replica. The emissary group still has time at its disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u184	Mr. Petty Officer, you didn't discuss this in front of Mr. Minister, it's not a replica. Turn it off, because it's time for your task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u185	Excuse me, if the minister quotes me, I have a replica, it's not in the rules of procedure, you're breaking, you're respecting me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u186	Article 70 shall also apply to you. You don't have a word, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u187	Can you tell me the reasons?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u188	Article 70 shall apply to you. I'm not going to read you the 70th article before Dr. Bajuk, please. The rules are the same for everyone. It's time for your task force. Mr. Kelemina, please. The procedural question is also an invention. Procedural proposal, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u189	Procedural proposal. Is it nice now, my friend? The fact is, I find it completely unacceptable and I do not know where it says that while a Member asks you if he can get a word and you insist on your very special positions as the leader of this meeting, then you can count it down to the New Slovenia Group. You have no right to do this. Where does it say that? Where does this say that a procedural proposal goes at the expense of the parliamentary group? Can you explain this to me, ma'am?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u190	This is neither a proposal nor a question; this is a pure abuse of the rules of procedure, Dr. Bayuk. That is the case, the rules of procedure apply to all the same. Comrade means that you consider me to be your friend and ally, thank you very much for the compliment. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u191	Respectable. According to our Slovenian Constitution, the people have power, I say this from the Constitution, or very indirect authority, but directly in our country have power in the hands of political parties, those political parties who have won the elections and also created a political coalition with their satellites, for example DeSUS, and these political parties then also answer to the Slovenian people for all good or useful, what they have done in some mandate for their people and also for all mistakes. Interpellation is also an institution of responsibility or the establishment of accounts of this ruling government coalition and government against the opposition and citizens. The DeSUS is, of course, our constitution on the road, because they say it is an abuse of the constitutional institute, but they do not give any content or arguments. It's just a pamphlet, and I don't know where they even took it, that interpolation is today an abuse of the constitutional institute. I say, thank God we have a very advanced constitution, one of the most modern in Europe, and I am very glad that this constitution was not written by DeSUS and that it was not written by the United List, because then we would probably be in the bunker today, but we can be here. All right, let's drop it. I would like to draw attention to some of the contradictions that the government has presented here today. For example, in his explanation of the reply to the interpolation, Mr Rob said that interpellation was a legitimate right of the opposition, and Mr DeSUS said that it was an abuse of the Constitutional Institute. You're in a coalition together. If you don't know the rules, at least listen to what the Prime Minister says. There have been some contradictions when Mr Rop said that there are virtually no differences in regional development in Slovenia or that the differences between regions are extremely small. Then Mr Lahovnik appeared and said that some regions were at risk, such as Prekmurje. Of course, for Mrs Possonča Prekmurje, she does not think that highways are being built too quickly, that the agriculture in Prekmurje is too developed, that people in Prekmurje live too well, and some members of the government coalition probably think so. And as long as you have such Members and such Members in Prekmurje, you certainly cannot hope for any better development in Prekmurje. I would like to ask here who is directly responsible for regional development and these contradictions, these confrontations that take place between the government alone, directly responsible for regional development. Definitely a government as a whole, a power coalition as well as a DeSUS. The DeSUS has a ministry in this area in the past period and would, of course, ask what you have done in this area. Nothing or very little, even hindering regional development, since you did not allow the law proposed by the Minister to be passed, so you gave her some kind of mistrust, all alone. If the law on regional development is not implemented, only the fact set out in Article 19 of the law is to say, if you know it, where it is necessary for regional development since 1999 to provide about 50 billion tolls for regional development. But you know how much this money is for development. Ten times less than that money. In recent times these things have improved slightly, and we need to know that half of this money, as the Minister herself has said before, has not said to the end, half of this money or more goes by special laws. In fact, it is placed under special laws in the central Slovenian region or in Zasavje and in Prekmurje. And then it falls on the underdeveloped regions actually very little or almost nothing. And who is responsible for all of this? Certainly, as I said, a power coalition and also a DeSUS. Today I will not discuss these matters further, these confrontations that have been said here many times. Mr. Rob also says that the waiting periods in health care are shrinking or almost gone. Have those waiting for six months, even after one year for specific medical examinations, also be critical of their health. Even if you want to pay for certain services, you can't reach Slovenia, but if you go to Austria, you're practically right away. Why there are such differences, I wonder where the reason is for you to get paid right away in another country. Of course, it is also important to ask why there are so many suicides in Slovenia. Surely this is due to the state oligarchy, which cares little about the welfare of citizens, at least for some. But I don't mean to talk about it, I just want to give you a quick warning, because there is no time, because in this debate you have limited us to the biggest cancer wound of the Slovenian economy, namely productivity. Productivity is certainly the biggest cancer of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian space. I don't think you're going to argue that this is a lie again, as you're saying, that all of our statements and all our arguments that we've made today are lies, deception and so on. The question is, who is responsible for the low level of Slovenian productivity relative to Europe. It is precisely because of the low value added per unit of product that wages do not grow and then the pension does not grow and a whole range of other transfers cannot be implemented as well as plans and plans as they should be implemented. For low productivity, there is certainly a government, a power coalition that has ruled in this country for 12 years and has done absolutely nothing in terms of productivity or very little. In fact, it does not stimulate investment by almost any means, it does not encourage investment in technological progress of businesses, entrepreneurs. Businesses are simply not paid to invest their capital in development, in new technologies, in upgrading equipment, even in opening new jobs, because they are not stimulated, they are simply not stimulated and they prefer to invest their capital in the purchase of yachts and other luxury items, because they actually find this more rational investment. These capital investments do not include the investments of certain members of the Liberal Democracy or any Member who can buy an expensive villa at sea or own several capital investments, such as in bottom companies, and so on. Nor is the capital contribution of a high-ranking civil servant who was present in the National Assembly, which reportedly built more than 100 million villas overnight there in Nerezin. I'm just asking myself, where does money come from for such a wasteful life, if I, for example, have a high salary, so to speak, in the National Assembly, I can't do anything other than a shiny white Mercedes that's being read to me by the government media, but also a government coalition that's ten years old and is worth, I figured out a million 300 tolars these days. And they tell me I'm a terrible rich man. In short, I don't know where they got that money. I will make only one comparison, an analysis of the competitiveness of Slovenian companies compared to Irish companies. I hope you will admit that this is a correct information, and I will say the following. In productively high and medium-tech processing activities there was €192,000 in Ireland and €18,000 in Slovenia. The productivity difference is 11 times. I hope that we also have the right to compare ourselves with Ireland as a gazelle in the European Community and that this comparison is perfectly appropriate. Look, they have 11 times more productivity in Ireland. Then the difference is similar in low-tech demanding activities. Ireland's productivity reaches 97,000 euros and Slovenia's fights 13,000. In this regard, it is particularly worrying that Irish and European low-tech companies are much more productive than Slovenian high-tech companies. For example, for about nine times more productivity in manufacturing activities, Ireland’s total added value reached EUR 33 billion and Slovenia’s good EUR 3 billion. And this is also one of the key reasons that Ireland is once more economically developed, such a gross domestic product per capita by purchasing power in Ireland amounts to about 30,000 euros, in Slovenia 16,000. The reason for this huge difference in productivity, which is one prerequisite for wage increases and higher living growth, is the ability to look for it in misplaced structural reforms. This is the truth, in failed structural reforms, inefficient university system, non-transparent privatisation, not least the creation of conditions for foreign investment, with IMD Slovenia in the last, 28th place, and Ireland in the first place. At this point, it is worth mentioning that in its work report, the government specifically refers to the promotion of foreign investments as one of the key points of its work. And who paid the highest price of transition and high [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in this country? Workers. And just one more case to mention, one story that's happened to me right now, not long from this, on this vacation, on this holiday that's not a vacation. I stood in line for a bank machine to raise some money and there was a gentleman in front of me, a worker in a blue working suit, and he's on the machine, and by chance I saw it, it's not fair and it's not fair, I saw him raise the money. And you won't believe it. He picked up 1,000 tolars on the machine. I'm asking you all, either one of you last picked up 1,000 tolars on a bank machine. When I experienced this, I was actually shocked. I was shocked that day and today this story lives with me and will live forever. When will you make sure that our workers don't pick up on bank machines just 1,000 tolars, that maybe they won't buy lunch, but they will buy bread to bring it home to their children? Let's keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister wants to explain in two sentences some of your statement, and then I think that, as agreed for today, we can conclude. Dr. Laharnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u193	Thank you very much. In this, we are now a significant research institute for management from Switzerland by productivity to the 28th place from the 60s. This does not mean that we do not want to get through higher, but the fact is that productivity is also increasing. In 2003, real productivity growth was 2.5% in 2004, projected 0.1%. What needs to be highlighted, however, is the inaccuracies that you have mentioned, an additional investment relief in addition to a general 10% is intended to invest in technological development. So that's not true. This additional investment facility has also been incorporated in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons in line with the economic agreement, with the Chamber of Economics and I am confident that it will also have a positive impact on productivity growth, on improvement, on the business threshold of Slovenian companies, because we will, of course, be among the best on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-08-31-SDZ3-Izredna-50.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Ministers and Ministers, Prime Minister, co-workers! Thank you all very much for today. We'll resume the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night to all.
