ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful, good day to you! I begin the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Dr. Jožef Bernik for the beginning of the meeting, Dr. Michael Brejc, Roman Jakič, Aurelio Juri from 4 p.m. and Ivan Kebrič. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, both presidents! On the basis of Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, I will submit a proposal to the College or to the National Assembly. In fact, at last year's session, when we had our parliamentary questions on the table, it has been shown that such a timely placement of the questions sent this year, at least in a pre-election year, and they have begun to intensively ask questions of Members in agreement with their ministers, including the coalition Members, is not appropriate. In the second part of the answers to the questions we have received, we have received the total ignorance of government representatives. Practically, more than half of the questions were not answered at all because there was no possibility of doing so. At the same time, the fundamental purpose of the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs was to communicate with the public, to communicate with voters. The questions put forward are so timely that more than half of the Members of the Commission do not have the possibility of communicating with the public through public broadcasts, which we have finally elected in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u4	No, no, I'm not done yet. I have a right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u5	Mr Jerovšek, unfortunately, you quoted Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u6	Yes, proposals to the college and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u7	Unfortunately, you cannot abuse this item of the agenda that I have announced to inform the Assembly and the public that you will be informed on the basis of this article. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u8	I have the right, and not to misinterpret the rules of procedure again!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u9	give the College this initiative on the management of the questions sent. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u10	I have this right to pass it on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u11	I'm sorry, you don't have a moment. I'm warning you, or I'll take your word for it. Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u12	I think you're violating my right to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u13	No, you are violating the right of Members and Members to deal with item 2 of the agenda. Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Continue consideration of agenda item 2 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u14	That's not true! You're misinterpreting! I have carefully studied the rules of procedure and you can't take my word for it! I have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u15	I remind you, for the third time, I will take your word because you are referring to the National Assembly with your idea that you will give the College an initiative to otherwise settle parliamentary matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u16	See, the College's views on these issues and initiatives shall be informed by the President of the State [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u17	So we're going to move on to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE STRENGTH AND LOVE LAW. At its 16th meeting, on 23.12.2003, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-declare the law on game and hunting before declaring it. I very much welcome the representative of the Council of State among us and give the floor to Mr Cvetko Zupančič to explain the Council's request. Mr. Zupančich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. The National Council has twice considered the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and adopted a veto on the adopted law in the second reading. The Council of State had concerns, as has been evident from all discussions and discussions, particularly those relating to the origin of hunting rights. The Council of State considered that this law violated the constitutional right to private property, as reflected in the discussions and the passages followed by the vote. The opinion is also that the law is not in line with other laws, especially the law on environmental protection and the law on societies. Of course, a concession is also disputed for the State Council, two thousand hectares of large fisheries at this time constitute the active dissolution or merger of 18 hunting families, which is, of course, controversial without any agreement. Of course, concessions remain a major problem, too, which was not harmonised, that concession is granted for an indefinite period, which was then amended in the amendment of the law, but the concession is granted for a period of at least 20 years, which means that it can actually be a one-hundred-year lease, which brings priority to certain hunting families and there is no alternative to other hunting establishments or organisations that would have been established in this work. Our opinion was that the concession should be for a period of 10 years, as well as long-term hunting plans. This law also completely releases trophies, hunting trophies that are of substantial value, but savagery itself and of course this is not even included in this part when they talk about concessions here is the void that we have warned about. There's also a poor way to save this part that talks about damage. The owner of the game, if this is a country, must be fully responsible for the damage the game does, that is damage to people, property, mobility. Of course, this part of the law does not solve well, so there are also great concerns, and at the same time the damage recovery procedure is complex, opaque and, in our opinion, even to the detriment of the owner of agricultural land and forests. There are also very high penalties in the law. We believe that it is unnecessary that there are as high penalties in the hunting law as the penal code knows them. Of course, we have proposed otherwise, but in this law it is written like this. I must also mention that not only do farmers agree with the law itself, but individual hunters do not agree with it, individual hunting families do not agree with it, and even the alliance of hunting families with Dolenjska. Nor is there an adequate solution to the problem of hunting for a particular purpose, so we believe that this part is not appropriate either. The proposer completely excluded the owners of agricultural land and forests, civil society and the local community from the law. Hunting is an activity that takes place in the countryside and in nature, so it is logical that farmers, hunters and local communities should be legally harmonised and have their place in marriage. In this law, the whole thing is centralized to the state and its services, and that's bad. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Therefore, from this point of view, I call on you not to re-vote this law and to order the Government to draw up a new proposal which would be submitted for re-examination to the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chair of the Committee, Mr Janez Kramberger, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee addressed this request from the Council of State for re-voting and addressed this issue at its regular meeting on 20 January. Both the drafters of the law and the proposers of this initiative participated, our service, our legislative office, the National Assembly and also the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. I must say that in the debate, those who oppose the law have in particular stressed that the law is contrary to Article 33 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees the right to private property and inheritance. They also said that this law is not comparable to the laws of other European countries. A key observation to the law's proponents is that they have gone through a deal between landowners and owners of hunting grounds, which will lead to a number of misunderstandings between farmers and hunters when this law is in force. It has also been pointed out that 18 hunting families are such that they do not meet the prescribed criteria for obtaining concessions on 2,000 hectares of hunting grounds; here too, complications are expected in the implementation of this law. There have also been a lot of contradictions regarding the continued conservation of hunting sites with special purposes, not only for hunting, but on the one hand the lack of confidence in hunting families and, on the other hand, mainly the use of aspirations, as they said, "Ljubljan hunting oligarchy" [[We have also heard this expression in the law-making process itself.]] . Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the proposalr's representative reiterated that the law with the solutions presented governs the area of wildlife management, which includes planning, conservation and sustainable management. He also said that the law had been established for a very long time and that, in their view, the proposalers thought that this law, which had been adopted, could also be implemented in order to achieve the purpose of the law. After discussion, the Committee voted on the proposed decision, namely: "The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution, to adopt the law." The Committee also supported this decision by a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law to explain the opinion. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u22	Your Honor! I propose to the National Assembly that it also approves the law this time, as it did in the first reading, when it assessed, after a broad discussion, that there is a suitable basis for the follow-up procedure, as well as in the second reading, when it adopted a number of amendments on the proposal of the agri-agricultural chamber, on the proposal of the local communities, on the proposal of the Members, and also in the third reading, after the final act has been adopted. It is understandable that interests differ, that the variety of proposals is also broad, that some things are also illogical, that we do not settle an area for so long, but it is regulated in 1976. It is illogical to talk about unconditional management, but by no means to adopt provisions on also sanctioning offences if they occur and so on. This law primarily regulates wildlife management, which includes planning, conservation, sustainable management and monitoring of the state of the game and how they are implemented. So we want all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to become familiar with this law and also to take it as one that regulates the economic, social, ecological function of forests. To preserve nature through this to the greatest extent, and to the satisfaction of all, in order to protect the wildlife, to preserve and increase biological and landscape diversity and the stability of living societies, which is one of the special values already in the Republic of Slovenia, and this must be protected. We would certainly not want to go along the path that some other countries have taken when, with the excessive interference of individual groups in areas where the game is located, forests, agricultural land, infested areas, infertility and the like. In some countries, this biological diversity and, above all, the diversity of the animal world is extremely narrow. And some species even extinct. We are in a special place, and we have specifically stressed the concern of preventing and recovering damage from game and game. The co-responsibility of all those who manage it, from the country to which hunting rights belong, and of course, which also owns the game, to the last hunter, to say so, and of course all those who meet in this process. And special care is also given to land owners and forest owners. Unfortunately, the proponents spoke mainly about forests, but not vetoes, of course, but not about agricultural land. They are, of course, involved through the agri-land chamber in both planning and validation of plans for wildlife management. And, of course, at the proposal of Members and Members, the local community is also involved as an environment where all these interests meet. Therefore, it should not be overemphasized that within six months the government must also address the issue of so-called special-purpose hunting grounds. It's a so-called hunting ground from the past, where some things have to be coordinated. Both by borders, both by way of management and, of course, by regulating concessions and compensation for all that will happen in nature in connection with the wild. And by doing so, we believe that we have prepared a good marriage. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To the choir to confirm it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be identified by the Council proposal. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Aloise Sok, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear President, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! We have already said many times in New Slovenia, and I say again today on behalf of New Slovenia that we do not support this law. With some minor corrections, of course, this law would be acceptable to us, but unfortunately with our amendments we have not succeeded in this national assembly. The reasons why we don't support the law are as follows. For the first time in our opinion, this law is neither modern nor European. If a European law is to be made and a modern law is to be made, then it should be based on the principle of subsidiarity. No, by contrast, you have legislated that the game is the property of the country, and thus, of course, you have imposed on our citizens, taxpayers the great cost of the future payment of compensation. We know that the country as a master is a bad master, and on this basis I hope to say that our country or our wildlings are writing badly in the future. Secondly, you have increased bureaucracy by assigning many functions to the forest office, by transferring workers from the current hunting grounds, but not at the same time providing funds, but by counting as you have taken the amendments from ECO 0 for two years, what it means and simply dedicated them to the forest institution, which is in financial trouble and will, of course, be in the future. The next thing that is unacceptable to us is that in determining hunting areas, then in setting hunting plans and in setting up specific hunting grounds for forest owners and agricultural land owners and local communities, you have actually given some role statisticians. They may express an opinion, but in reality they have no effect on the number of wildlings and, of course, indirectly not on the damage that is coming. However, they are legally obliged to do their utmost to defend their property against possible damage. This is, of course, totally unacceptable from a European point of view and modernity. The next thing we don't approve of is the size of hunting grounds. You have not confirmed or proved by any argument that the fisheries throughout Slovenia must be at least 2,000 hectares. This means, of course, that some hunting families will cease to exist, but we also have problems with hunting families who have been deprived of their hunting rights in the past when special breeding grounds have been established. You prescribed concessions, ranging from 10% to 50% of the sold game. In fact, we know that this does not mean much in practice, because when hunters single out the game they use for their own purposes, there is not much to sell and there is no point in hunting in this. But you let go of areas called hunting trophies. Yesterday, I asked Minister Kopač, who presented the law in the first reading before this National Assembly, that question and, although the question was raised to him a few days ago, he replied that he was not in charge of the field of hunting and game that the Minister for Agriculture was responsible. This is another great prank of this law that you have accepted all past the Ministry of Agriculture and left the responsibility for the implementation of the law to the burden of this ministry. Hunting rights - we have strongly advocated that hunting rights be granted not only to legal persons but to other natural persons, of course, under the conditions laid down in this law. You didn't agree to that either. The Council of State now rightly urges us that this law is contrary to the law on the protection of nature, and I also argue that this law is also contrary to the law on agrarian communities. Agrarian communities have regained their former rights, which means they have been granted their hunting rights. But this law doesn't take that into account. It is a pity that you did not wait for this law to reach an agreement between the hunters and the owners of agricultural land because this would avoid the possible consequences of your decision today. We still have a chance today. Mr. Potts met last night in Odessa, referring to all the arguments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He's missed and gone, 600 million, as far as the referendum is supposed to cost. [[...]] I hope that in about a month he will not again refer to the 600 million needed for the referendum, if the referendum is to take place. Because today is still the time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u25	Mr. Sok, you're abusing the rules of procedure and you're wasting your time. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u26	the decision to change. [[...]] I'm done with this. As such, we will not support the law, but in Novi Slovenija, if they call for a referendum, we will advocate that this referendum will succeed, as it is fair and proper. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. But I must tell you that this is unusual, how many times do you remind the opposition Members, interrupt and take away their word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u27	Mr Sok, you are totally abusing your position as a representative of the parliamentary group you have the right to present your position. It is my duty to defend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have no right to insult me or the other Members when you are walking and you think that someone is doing something like you don't like. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Your Honor! The DeSUS Group has been committed to the basic desire to regulate this area throughout the examination and adoption of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. We supported the proposed solutions in the belief that they are good and offer universally acceptable approaches and standards. We also have this attitude towards the solutions that the State Council rejects. The evidence at the expense of the proposed law concerns certain specific expected problems, due to the conflict between land ownership and landowners, by creating the size of the hunting grounds or their hunting grounds and the limited rights of landowners. However, we are convinced that these issues, which will be resolved by the enforcement of the law in everyday life, will not work without agreements with landowners or with the cooperation of hunting families. The law has been preparing for several years, including in cooperation with competent institutions and local communities. Its solutions are governed by the area of wildlife management, conservation planning and sustainable management and the monitoring of the state of the game. We believe that the law will achieve its purpose. In its expert opinion, the legal service of the National Assembly also ensured the appropriateness and consistency of the proposed law with the applicable rules. In view of all this, the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group will support the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and will therefore recommit itself to the proposed Act on Wildlife and Hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues! A particularly nice greeting to Mr Sok, who took the opportunity, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, to argue with me on a completely different subject. The adoption of the hunting law focuses on two fundamental issues at all times. First of all, the question is whether the game should become state property or ownership of forest owners. If the game were owned by forest owners, it is clear that only they could manage it and have it at their disposal, there is no doubt that it is in particular in accordance with their economic interests. The game management would lose all or many of the fundamental elements of ecological and social property functions and the role of conservation and protection of wildlife as a natural resource soon as possible, irrespective of possible legal restrictions. I am sure that extensive and long-standing discussions have also confirmed, after the adoption of the law in the public, that for the possession of wildlife by forest owners there is a very limited circle of new large owners, who see in this the opportunity to create a new monopoly in the management and management of wildlife. Therefore, the majority of the debate rejected this concept, which would not take public interest into account. And the second question was to whom, in the case of State ownership of the game, a concession for the management and sustainable management of the wild should be granted. A great deal of public support has come up with the concept of prioritising the management and management of hunting families that have already managed hunting properly in accordance with regulations and plans. If such families are not or do not wish to apply for the invitation to tender, they shall have a second priority for the hunting family whose majority of the members are land and forest owners in the fishing area or whose majority of the members have a permanent residence in the fishing area. Therefore, it is not true that land and forest owners would be given no opportunity to influence the acquisition of a fishing concession by the hunting families in which they are members. The process of implementing the law will certainly give rise to such options. However, it would not be acceptable not to ensure continuity in the management and management of wild game, as the current state of debate and contradiction in hunting law has had many consequences for the role of game in ensuring a balance in nature. In this regard, the Council of State, since it was no longer able to challenge the law in the concept, justified its veto requirement by the non-compliance between the proposed law and the law on the protection of the environment and, in its view, by the inadequate or inadequate regulation of property relations and ownership between the former and future operators of the fisheries, especially those with special purpose. Both concerns, so I understand, were assessed as unfounded by the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly. There is therefore no reason for us not to vote again in favour of upholding the law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We believe that this issue also needs to be addressed again after almost 30 years. In doing so, we will support the need for a thorough assessment of the effects of this law after a certain period of application, and, if necessary, we will also support the reshaping of some of its implementing solutions, but it is conceptually a good law. It would therefore be unacceptable, in our view, to continue with the unregulated situation and, above all, to the detriment of hunting and nature conservation, to continue to allow for the uncertainty that has already been caused by the requirement of large forest owners following the changed concept of ownership and management of game in hunting. We will therefore vote in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already stressed in the opening presentation of the issue related to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting that we support the basic conceptual solutions of the law, that we deeply agree that the area of hunting must be regulated and that in this sensitive area it is necessary to ensure the widest public interest associated with exploitation and multifunctional use of forests and other public areas, which in nature represent fisheries. Despite our hope that some of our concerns and comments will be taken into account in the debate, which, in our belief, satisfactorily solve the issue of the law on game and hunting, are being resolved in this direction in order to ensure and maintain, I will say that there is a delicate balance between the owners of agricultural land and forests and among the hunters organised in hunting families who have so far ruled by hunting. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen because the proposed law, together with the leadership of the Hunting Union of Slovenia in particular, could not listen to the aspirations of the owners of agricultural land and forests, but in particular could not listen to hunters from hunting families, who daily and directly face problems on the ground, who also face daily and directly the consequences of the orientations enshrined in the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which they were able to familiarise themselves with during this broad public debate. We are confident that this topic will continue to be regulated by further stressing the continued concern for the wild that the concern for nature will continue to be maintained, in particular in order to maintain the necessary and necessary balance between the owners of agricultural land and forests and all other users of this area. Well, the basic comment that we have always stressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party is the basic non-compliance set out in Article 7 of the legislative proposal, which continues to be applied by national fisheries. This is totally unacceptable for our concept, for our understanding of the modern law on savagery and hunting. It is totally unacceptable that the law continues to enforce more than 300,000 hectares of state-owned fisheries on the fact that there has been no valid argument throughout the public debate to justify the continuation of state-owned fisheries. As set out in this Article, the clear lack of confidence expressed in hunters organised in hunting families is clear from the lack of confidence of the proposer of law and majority in this National Assembly of Experts and the ability of hunters to also deal with so-called hunting grounds of particular importance, and I think that hunters should still have a way of thinking about such expressed mistrust. On the other hand, with the continued enforcement of state fishing, I will say that this is also an unacceptable interference with the rights to implementation, to the pursuit of hunting, because in areas where State fishing is clearly violated by many of our hunters by limiting the catch to 2,000 hectares, and by facing 18 fishing sites that do not meet this criterion, or 18 hunting families that face their continued existence, and even more incomprehensible that the proposed law insists on reinstated and further enforce more than 300,000 hectares of state fishing. I have already pointed out that we are close to the basic conceptual solutions of this law. So clearly and unequivocally we support broad, I will say, broad surface management and co-management with the wild, but we are convinced that Article 13 completely inadequately spells out the way in which owners of agricultural land and local communities participate in the production of hunting plans, and this is also one of the moments in which we oppose the further implementation of the law and why we will vote against the adoption of law. For us, it is also totally unacceptable in Article 25 that there is a way of granting concessions for fisheries management. We are convinced that an audit should be carried out in this area and that priority should therefore be given to fisheries management for those hunting families whose majority of the members are the owners of agricultural land from the area of fisheries and the hunters who have permanent residence in the area. This seems necessary to me because this would also indirectly exercise property rights, stress property rights and, through ownership rights, the possibility of hunting. Well, it's extremely ignorant or, I'll say, the intention is to ignore the fact that, in Article 29, you have also released hunting trophies in the calculation of the concession. This is the only thing that matters in hunting, and to release hunting trophies in the calculation of concession is completely unacceptable to us, incomprehensible and shows a relation to this problem See, release or not charge trophies in a concession fee and leave at the same time to the Ministry of Agriculture to distribute such collected concessions, which many are known to be, because not many of them are included in these concessions also trophies, points to, I will say, underestimating, an ignorant attitude towards owners of agricultural land and forests, and that is that essential core of the dispute. Given that the Ministry of Agriculture has not practically exercised any influence in the adoption of this law, which is also for us, I will say, not as surprising as incomprehensible, we do not believe that there will be a fair proposal for the distribution of concession fees, which will already be, I will say, small because there are no trophies involved. For the sake of all this, I stress once again - despite the fact that we welcome and, I will say, support the basic, conceptual solutions to the law, this is that wild game is a state property and that we support great surface management and sonar management with wild game - but nevertheless, the articles I have mentioned are, above all, solutions that are totally unacceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Moreover, I am convinced that these solutions do not provide a good prospect for good sonar management of the game in the future, even more, I am sure that these solutions are already triggering conflicts on the ground, already triggering conflicts that will in the future certainly lead to major disagreements in this area. We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Lidija Majnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The law, which is being re-examined after the adopted veto in the state world today, is one of those whose content has been extremely much debate. Both here at the meetings of the National Assembly and in our working bodies and in the public. In fact, after so many words, it is almost impossible to say anything new. We all agree more or less with at least some fundamental solutions to the law to support the preservation of the protection and sustainable use of wild animals. We also agree that the management of the wild should be one that ensures the ecological, social and economic functions of the wild and its living environment. From here on out, there are differences between us that probably have not been reduced by the veto of the State Council. It is, of course, a different understanding of property rights and of the different opinions of the wildlings and who will decide on it. We differ as to who is the better guardian of the interests of citizens, whether it is a local community or it is a country. We also differ in the fact that supporters of the law for active planning, but not for exclusive decision-making, are included as mandatory planners of the local community and the agri-agricultural chamber, which is the only legitimate representative of forest owners with mandatory membership, not some newly established associations and communities. Above all, we differ in understanding the Constitution and in understanding property rights. In interpreting these terms, we followed the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which had already ruled on ownership and ownership on several occasions. Our Constitution already provides in Article 2 that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state, which means that the function of ownership is also social, linked to duties and responsibilities. Or, as the Constitutional Court says, property does not only bring income and other benefits, but also requires maintenance and related costs. However, our country is already strongly helping with the means to pay for damage, to maintain and rebuild forests, and so on. This is also provided for in Article 67 of the Constitution, since it leaves to the law a way of acquiring and consuming property in such a way that, in addition to social security, the ecological and economic functions of ownership are also ensured. The fact that an individual is not unlimited in the exercise of his or her property rights but must take into account the interests of other members of the community and of the community as such is already part of the concept of property rights under Roman law. Individuals are therefore obliged to suffer restrictions on forest ownership, the natural component of which has become free access [[Walking, limited collection of fruits]] all the people in the woods, no matter who owns them. That is why wildlings are state property in this law, and the country also has hunting rights. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that such a law, as we have adopted it once before, will satisfy both environmentalists and mountaineers, tourists and other travelers, especially our citizens and citizens who want free forests and free access to them, with all the diversity of animal species that have managed to preserve the current hunting families. We will therefore re-support the LDS in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The Wildlife and Hunting Act, which will be decided again today on the basis of the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, has been the subject of many positive and negative views and debates prior to admission to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law itself contains certain shortcomings and would necessarily need some changes, corrections, but we must be aware that in such a large matter as the law contains, it is not possible to satisfy all interests and lobbies. In the process of enacting the law, in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have endeavoured in vain to regulate the area of falcon hunting, as is regulated in many European countries. Our efforts to legitimize this area have been taken by disapproval in most parliamentary parties. We estimate that in the future the law is likely to experience changes and additions in certain segments, including in relation to the provision mentioned above, which is also expected in view of the many criticisms of the public concerned. Nevertheless, and most importantly, the law basically provides for the legal arrangements for the management of wildlife and its living space, the preservation of the ecological system, and hunting activities in the care and responsibility of our common living space. We are convinced that this law makes it possible for all citizens to be equally involved in the implementation of natural and hunting activities. In the Slovenian National Party, despite some concerns, we will once again support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Party of Young Slovenia, when adopting the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, we have warned that in the preparation of the new law, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the protection and conservation of wild animals, many of which are rare and endangered species. To our great sorrow, the wildlings remain only a subject of bartering. Many people see good profits in hunting, but they forget the right to live in our forests, the important role they play in ecosystems and not least their right to life. As a piano state, I will illustrate that we do not even have asylum in Slovenia for wild animals. The wild animals are, unfortunately, left to themselves. Are all the parties involved really interested only in hunting and killing animals and forging profits at the expense of helpless animals? We see the State Council's request to re-decision the adopted Wildlife and Hunting Act as a misunderstanding of sustainable wildlife management. The narrow interests of certain individuals and the desire for money above all are contrary to the modern attitude towards Slovenian nature. Modern arrangements recognize sustainable management. It turns out that the regulation by the State and the current way in which hunting families work results in less damage than a different hunting system. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will re-support the law, which we do not consider to be the best, but at the moment as sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Responsible policy is stopped in time whenever serious concerns and conflicts are present. In this mandate, we have seen bigger cases when the responsible policy has not stopped at the right time. The damage was too great, and the consequences were too great. The Wildlife and Hunting Act is typically one of those cases where the bill-maker or the bill-makers did not wait long enough to agree on the two key actors defined by this law. On the one hand, representatives of landowners and, on the other hand, operators of hunting grounds. There could be a common agreement. And that's a key and thorough statement to the proponents. Although it has actually been a long time since the marriage was very old, it has a 28-year-old beard and comes from a former country, it could be arranged to meet the essential requirements of both key players in particular. In this way we could come to a really solid law on wildlife and hunting, which is certainly very sensitive to Slovenian space, especially to Slovenian rural areas. In the Slovenian People's Party, we never asked who owns the game. It is clear to us that this property is state-owned. However, we have always felt that there is a need for landowners in this process to ensure adequate status. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated that our forests are open to the collection of forest fruits, to the recreation of our citizens and citizens, but we have always insisted that the wildlife stock must be brought to a reasonable level, which will in fact allow for the space in which they live and that our farm will not have to be fenced before the game. At that time, and after the law has been passed, a communication has come to the public today, more than an argumented fact that the concession to be granted to hunting families for 18 of these existing hunting families means that they will not be able to run on this call because the existing hunting grounds are smaller. It is said that the provision that 2,000 hectares of fishing area is a condition for obtaining concessions will force at least 18 hunting families in this country into integration, to join together. Moreover, in areas where the motorway cross is taking place, it will be necessary to increase this number in order to round up the hunting areas. Of course, no one has mentioned this fact in the debate so far. Now, of course, this information has finally come to the public. The second issue, which is very important in the planning of hunting areas, is how these management areas will eventually be rounded up. Of course, one of the key issues is the payment of compensation. In particular, the conditions for such payment of compensation. In fact, once again, I will quote the first paragraph of Article 53, which states that a natural or legal person who is harmed by a wildling must, in an appropriate manner as a good master, do whatever it takes to protect his property from the occurrence of damage. So, as landowner, I have to do everything I can to make sure that my neighbor's animal or the game on my land doesn't do me any harm. Wrong world. Thereafter, provisions that continue to speak that holders of agricultural land and forests where hunting is located are obliged to use the appropriate safeguards provided by the operator of the fishing area. However, the practice so far has been so often that operators of hunting sites have not had enough money to actually provide adequate protection to landowners when necessary. We also believe that inadequate respect for property, in particular respect for property in the introduction of so-called special hunting grounds, is inadequate. We still believe that special fisheries are intended not only for fishing purposes, as in other fisheries, but mainly and exclusively for commercial purposes. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to ask landowners here at least when granting special land status. They will not even be asked, but the country will, of course, design and define the status of a special fishing area for commercial purposes on their land. We also consider that there is no appropriate guarantee for the payment of damages in the law. In the human party, again, I stress, we have never questioned whose property is the game. It is likely that there were more problems with this dictatorship by the very proponents who were trying to show the public, of course, the different interests of those who oppose this law. The fact is that the law is not properly regulated, in an appropriate manner, so in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that a democratic state should not adopt in 2004 solutions that were characteristic of these soils in the 1970s. Therefore, at this point in time, the responsible State would once again draw a hand brake at the veto of the State Council and, of course, consider that, in the procedures and procedures that we still have at our disposal, we would, of course, address this issue in a new procedure, in a manner that would not cause conflict in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The debate between Members and Members is now under way. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Therefore, on the basis of the discussions that have been held, both on the labour market and on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, I can see that the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the re-decision on the Law on Wildlife and Hunting is unfounded. Therefore, of course, I would also like to add a few thoughts to support this law, and I think it is the right decision to have the Republic of Slovenia run the game, especially for the reason that the management system itself is designed to grant concessions to the hunting families that have already operated these areas and, of course, it is to preserve the rights acquired. I think that this is what may be saying in favour of the management of the wild or the management of the then intermediate family also being successful in the future. Of course, the question is being raised as to whether the management of hunting sites with special purpose should remain under the jurisdiction of the State. I myself believe that this is an appropriate solution, because any other solution in this case would reach into assets that we should redistribute in some way. These are very difficult procedures, but they would probably be very questionable and, of course, the effect is also probably very questionable. In fact, maintaining specific hunting grounds also means preserving rural jobs, and this is one of the concrete programmes that this law allows. For this reason, I believe that, even after this act, this law, by deciding that the State manages fisheries for a particular purpose, is also of paramount importance for the provision of rural jobs. Few laws provide such options. The area itself, which is defined at 2,000 hectares, certainly allows for very good planning of the management of game in space, because, if these surfaces are smaller, of course planning is so much more questionable. However, I think it is important that all the institutions of both expertise and those interested participate in the adoption of hunting plans. Finally, landowners, who join and share their interest in the agri-agricultural chamber, participate in this process and, of course, the local communities in which such fisheries are located. Therefore, it is possible to engage all those present in the space, because this activity is being carried out and I think that this is also one of the good solutions in this law. The concession fee being collected in accordance with the State budget is, I think, a good solution, because this will maintain or ensure the transparency of the amount of funds collected primarily for paying the burden of agricultural land and forests. I believe that this transparency is one of the good solutions in this law, because many times so far the question has been raised as to whether the funds are compensation or not. I think that in this case it will be much, much more transparent than it has been before. I also believe that in hunting families, hunters spend many hours in their activities. This also, of course, maintains a fund of funds, a substantially larger fund of compensation. If services were to be paid in the hunting area, they would reduce compensation. Here is the question that comes to me: What better thing is it to have hunting families to which concessions are granted by the State, or to have private hunting grounds where, in this case, we should probably pay individual workers, people who do whatever it takes to make such hunting work? This would, of course, also reduce the share of the concession fee that could go to the compensation fund, but would certainly increase the burden that would dictate the payment of services for the purpose that non-private hunting can function at all. I think that because more compensation resources would actually be raised, the solutions in this law are more appropriate than if they went to private hunting grounds. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you very much and very much! Shortly after the adoption of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting in the National Assembly and after the announced debate on the veto proposal in the State Council, I would almost bet that the State Council would not vote veto on this law. Good thing I didn't, because I was wrong. For I expected that in the State Council, the view of this law would prevail more by public and general interest than by the protection of narrow private interests. And yet that's what happened, which I don't think is good. For I am convinced that this law is designed for the great protection of nature, not only of wildlings, but of the coexistence of people and wildlings in our environment, and that it certainly sums up much good from the old law, which was not so bad if we look at the effects and the situation in our environment. Surely we are one of the countries in Europe that can boast of the diversity of our nature, we do not know the extinction of certain species, on the contrary, and we can only boast about it. We can look into one of the neighbouring countries, for example Italy, which reportedly has European legislation, what is the situation in this country in their natural environment. So we are also transferring good solutions from the old legislation into a new law, in order to ensure that the natural environment is taken care of, at least for wild animals as it has been so far, that some of the bad solutions or shortcomings of the current legislation will also be addressed in this way. [[For example, a better attitude towards the treatment of damages and the management of damage as a result of the coexistence of animals and humans in nature]] . I will personally vote against the veto and re-vote the law. However, I allow the possibility, as in the various laws that we have adopted so far, that some minor adjustments will be needed in the future when the law goes into operationalisation and when it may prove that some solution is not fully conceived. However, we do know the procedure of our work and the way we can also make amends if perhaps this moment is not well arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Since I had not been able to answer some of the questions previously raised by the parliamentary groups in the presentation of the Group's position earlier, I will try this this time. The representative of DeSUS said "without an agreement with landowners it will not work". That's actually very well said, but misleading the public. The word that the Forest Office will cooperate with landowners, with the local community and so on, of course at the principal level, says well. But the word "cooperation" is a very broad term. That can be enough to invite you to coordinate landowners, but to take their views into account, not at all. Thus, it would probably be wise for us to clarify these concepts clearly before we do so. Secondly, by the United Nations Group, it was said that it would not be acceptable not to ensure continuity in wildlife management. That's not true either. In awarding concessions, there will be very many hunting families who will not be able to meet the condition that they will receive a concession for 2,000 hectares of hunting area. But these problems will then show up in the implementation of the law. Furthermore, Mr Weber's claim that the payment of compensation is better settled. I agree. What is the purpose of this country? Let us answer that question. Is it the purpose of this country to have a higher stock of game and to pay compensation from the State budget for the price of a higher stock of game? Is it intended to bring the stock to a reasonable level? As a result, it is a practical solution to significantly lower the national budget for compensation in areas where hunting families will not be able to pay compensation. This is a key and fundamental issue in the field. Why in some areas, especially in recent times, this stock has increased significantly and is trying to maintain a higher stock of game at all costs. I think that's the key question. Here are landowners with a diction of cooperation, as well as local communities with a dictatorship of cooperation pushed aside. If we had a bigger role here, we know years ago that by 1994, the congregations had confirmed the annual plans, but we did not want to demand that there should be consensus among local communities. We said to get it together. A higher degree of cooperation when it is actually necessary to agree on a mutual agreement. And this is where we get to what the representative of DeSUS said, because without an agreement with the landowners, it won't work. At least there's a minimum deal. This is where I think he passed the exam again. At the operational level, the determination of the wild stock will continue to maintain continuity, the continuity of the provision of a higher number of game stocks than that of the natural environment, resulting in a decrease in the possibility of landowners farming in the areas concerned. The fact is that damage after the wild is felt mainly by a small part of the owners of agricultural land and by those who are more distant, those who are in difficult farming conditions. Usually, but not always. It's an unsuspecting song that appears from year to year. I believe that if these matters were resolved in law, as it should be, then we would probably not be facing this issue today, at least by the Slovenian People's Party, because the law at this point is not as appropriate as it is. Because in these basic segments it is worse than existing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovšek to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Today, we have before us a similar consideration as we did in this national assembly in the time of the so-called technical law. Even then, we warned one of them against the arrogance of authorities, or proposingrs, who are exactly the same as in this case. There are many parallels between these two laws, although their content is of course very different. However, the political role of the law on hunting in the Slovenian political area is very similar or similar to that of the so-called technical law in the case of 'blotted out'. In both cases, it is a matter of great material appetites and interests of the interested and you do not even hide it. It's about money, it's about big money, it's about big benefits. For two different categories, but in this case you see directly these material benefits, these are interests, as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, the Ljubljana hunting oligarchies or the hunting barons, which are practically in your hands, which are completely in your hands, which are richly repaid. These hunting barons can also very well carry out political propaganda for your species and, of course, you will persist arrogantly in this position until the end. The aim of the applicants is, because we are talking about these parallels, to cause a political crisis in the Slovenian space, to cause new divisions, new injustices, and also to flagrantly violate the constitutional rights of Slovenian citizens. There's no limit, there's no obstacle, there's no barrier to stop at. However, once again, before a similar phase, we are in the same phase as we were in the deleted law, when we could by making the right decision to veto prevent Slovenia from being in these severe squabbles. But you are masters of political anarchy because you see it as an opportunity to destabilize a country and use chaos for your political interests. And even in this law, it is perfectly clear, even as to who you have engaged in preparing this law. If this occurs to people who have participated in political corruption, then it is known how they are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u49	Mr. Jerovšek, please! If you would now hear what you said about the people involved in corruption! Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u50	That's exactly what I was going to say, Madam Vice President, that if you fanatically defend the LDS, you will stop me again, I will not be allowed to speak politically again. You were just as fanatic about the deleted law. Let me discuss it! I also have the right to speak about the political consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u51	Mr Jerovšek, I warn you to watch out for the words you use. [[Back-up advertising.]] He condemned the people who were preparing the law to take part in corrupt acts. Please, gentlemen, this city, however, requires more chosen words and not condemning people just in the first place. Mr Jerovšek, have a good discussion, but be careful of the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u52	Madam Vice-President, you were on the Agriculture Committee. I don't know, I've told you a couple of times, I don't use direct names, but I speak with argument. But I expected from you that you would want to take my word, as you always take it away from me if you speak honestly and directly. So once again, today is an opportunity for reflection. This marriage isn't right. The proponents themselves stated 'we know that the law will have to be corrected in many places in a short time'. Is this not a matter of extreme duplicity? Knowing that the marriage is bad, you want to confirm it while at the same time saying that it will have to be fixed as soon as possible. See, the main problem with this law is that it does not take into account the interests of local communities, not least that it goes beyond the interests of local communities as a bulldozer, which, of course, comes from the political technology of the applicants. In no way does it take into account the interests of the owners of agricultural land; does not take into account the economic interests of Slovenian agriculture; does not take into account that Slovenia must remain a cultural landscape in the agricultural field. We anticipate that Slovenia can grow to the last piece of agricultural land, because if the country or if the applicants in a cultivated agricultural area are to set up fishing grounds for special purposes, it is clear that farmers will move there and will have to move there as many of them have to move out of Kočevsko, Goričko and part of Prekmurje as well as other parts. We had a number of testimonies of people, what is the conduct, what is the reimbursement, again in compensations, parallels with eraseds, there would be made for damages, here in the law you wrote such solutions that some real compensations will never be possible or even paid. In this way, you are actually taking this country to the point where farmers will have to move out of many areas. Once again, you are leading a country, a political crisis in many areas. It is also one of the laws that causes new divisions, new injustices, new humiliation and ignorance of a particular category of Slovenian population, without which the Slovenian state would not be without which there would be no Slovenia. Today, however, you rely on these people because you bring into law your political interests, your material interests, your excessive greed for ratings, your privileges, your money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I thought I'd get some ideas for a discussion, but with so much nonsense and no argument, man is running out of things. The Council of State has already decided, at the second reading of this law, to impose a veto. This means that the additional solutions were no longer important. I respect the different approach in the concept of the law, where the issue of landowners' rights has been raised. The question of hunting grounds or hunting grounds with a particular purpose is also the most important, given that I will reopen the law, I would like to say that in that first part of the rights of land owners in the structure that is in Slovenia, it is very difficult to speak to me in order to provide me with a second concept of over-rights to landowners. The average agriculture, which has 4.5 hectares, would take a little bit out of this law, even if the concept were different. In a financial sense, almost nothing, but from the point of view of rights, it would be difficult to coordinate because there would be between a few thousand and a few tens of thousands of landowners in each hunting area. For breeding hunting grounds, where we are talking about the fact that owners should agree with the establishment and design of breeding hunting grounds, let us say out loud that we are in favour of abolishing these. Then we're talking about this solution. In an area where 10, 20 thousand hectares of farmland have been given the owner's consent to establish them, it means that they would never get it. Let's say out loud that we want an end. I object to this solution. From the beginning, I say that I come from an environment where these breeding grounds also employ some ten people who would not have a job anywhere else, anywhere else. They are employed in these hunting grounds mainly by landowners or farmers and then this function is still important. With regard to the evidence of complicated compensation procedures, I have written down that the Minister will prescribe more precisely. However, the order is prescribed in the law. First the hunting family, then the commission, and then the court at its extreme stage. Like everywhere else. Of course, it is important to know how the Minister of Professional Affairs, who will prepare a more precise regulation, will deal with compensation. Even if we were monitoring discussions in the national world, we felt that some of the laws had not been read at all. When they were talking about some barriers to protecting against wildlings, even unsolved damages and the like, of course, nothing is true. On the one hand, it is precisely stated who is first responsible for damage or compensation, after when the country is activated and in which cases and a specific fund formed from a concession to solve problems in areas where there are more savages and problems. I respect all the discussions about when colleagues talk about the fact that there are also bigger problems. But I think we have the biggest problems here in Prekmur. I'm sure this marriage is not ideal compared to what it has been before, and no one will. It also deals much better with the issue of damage and compensation than the current law. We have said that the municipality represents the interests of citizens and is also involved in the farming plans of the agricultural and forestry chamber, which is the expert representative of agriculture and forestry. And today to say that no one is involved is not true. However, it is true that in any case, not everyone can have a veto on solutions that are also being drawn up in the breeding plans on the wider or narrower hunting grounds. I am in favour of bringing this stock law to a reasonable level. And given the extension of the powers of those I'm talking about, I think that would be possible. Otherwise, I will be disappointed in those areas where the damage is greatest. However, I have no hope, but if there was another solution, another option, another concept, that it would be otherwise possible to solve these problems successfully. Since I think this concept is still acceptable, I will support this law. Of course, then, it will be an important role, as I have already said, for the ministries to specify in some parts the procedures which, in the event of damage, will have to apply to get a law that will be significantly better than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with Mr Tank, who has replaced the order with Mr Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Here, in my opinion, we are also facing one of the problems that the government is not functioning as it should be, as it was probably expected that the proposer of this law would be a department. This is the second time that one of the key laws in its field has not been proposed by the Ministry of Field Affairs, but proposed by other proposers. A similar story has also happened with the agricultural land law. Then we meet when the new proponents have already written certain solutions inside, which do not match the solutions and the majority desire, we face the situation when we want to fix something, but we cannot. The fact is that this law is a repetitive case when the government coalition essentially fell apart after two tracks. One track represents this majority part, represented by the Liberal Democrats and the United List and a solid minority in the form of the People's Party. I do not think it is appropriate for the government to push through the procedure such a law, so explicitly, I will say 'bodybuilder' mode, but not professionally prepared, justified and harmonised proposal. Such solutions have appeared too many times lately. Secondly, I must say that the Ministry of Agriculture unfortunately does not perform a task which, after this division, is somehow entrusted to it. It withdraws from these key issues and leaves all the initiative to others. The fact is that in this way we cannot have any quality agricultural policy or all the other things that are linked to this sector. The fact is that this law prepared an ecological forum for the Liberal Democracy, at least so was detected in the Echoes when there was a confrontation. And all of these solutions, which are written in this law, are extremely asymmetric, they are extremely lobbyistic, and they favor especially what is the interest of a roof hunting union. This law does not detect any significant quality or solution that would give some important status to hunting societies that would take into account the interests of landowners who feed more or less, whether they are hungry or unwilling, wild game, and not detect any possibilities and any solutions that would give any weight to local communities or municipalities. The fact is that the law preserves state fishing, and this is a hunting ground where it is more or less clear that it is not a natural breeding of animals, but it is essentially animal farms, wild animals' farms; that the concentration of the animal population in these areas is significantly higher than usual. The question is why, in fact, we have this desire to maintain these over-average concentrations, which, by definition due to over-burden, also cause super-average damage; if not in areas where there is such a state hunt, and in cases where wild game and beast also come from this state hunting ground. The ambition behind this is likely to be that our national fisheries will be regarded as some kind of genetic bank of Europe in wild animals. I think we can sense something like that in the background. Above all, it is also a desire to maintain the exclusive right of the lobby, to maintain the privileges of managing these fisheries and to make certain special use of these rights. The fact is that State hunting or some exclusive solution also requires some exclusive management, as well as the use of this catch. In cases where we have written down normal regimes, normal hunting management, this can be the same solution as for hunting families. In this case, there are other matters. On the other hand, the preservation of these state hunting grounds is at least strange and in some ways does not go into the concept of a state strategy. Here we have heard several times from the Prime Minister, when he answered questions from the Members, that the wish, or that the state wants to get out of these direct economic matters, from businesses and similar things. Here comes a strong tendency that the government remains the owner of not only hunting grounds but also the owner of game. In short, it's a disproportion between words and actions. The fact is that this government, this coalition, has a very strange attitude towards property. On the one hand, it protects and defends all that property which is of transit origin created in transition processes and, on the other hand, is entirely different from that of pre-transitional property. I don't think such things should actually appear. The property is just the same, and the relationship to this property must be the same. The size of hunting grounds is also a particular problem. In this arrangement, these solutions, which are enshrined in the law, are likely to require that some hunting families join others or dissolve and that their management in this territory will be taken over by others. In short, it is also a certain process that will trigger certain problems within hunting societies. This law also shows through the preservation of state hunting grounds to the distrust of hunting families. The fact is that hunting families manage their hunting grounds in accordance with hunting plans. I think there are very few cases where certain violations occur. This is mostly due to accidents and the fact that these fisheries are subject to special public control. In fact, there is no such control over national fisheries, and we do not know much about developments in national fisheries. The next issue, which is also problematic, is the borders of state hunting grounds, at least in some areas. One of these is the area where in the past, around 1950, thousands of hectares were taken from two hunting families. This area was then attached to the Cat’s Snow White, a closed area. There these hunting grounds were exempted from the management of the hunting family and became a special status. The fact is that at the initiative of one of the hunting families in 2000 part of this was returned to the management of one of the hunting families. However, immediately in 2001, the government overturned this decision and facilitated this hunting family for nearly a thousand hectares of fishing grounds. So it's kind of messy stuff, and it's a law that we'd expect him to handle things like this, and it keeps things going. The great problem of the law is also concessions, concession fees, because the most valuable part of the concession is excluded from the concession, the one that is the most expensive, and that is the trophy. In particular, landowners are excluded from the concession, where all these wildlings are grown, pastured, fed. All of these are eligible only for damages. However, neither for concession nor for damages, these criteria are established and will be determined subsequently, at some point much later, in a way that we do not know and which will be similarly lobbyistically processed, as this law is prepared. I think that the thought of the State Council, which vetoed this law, is fully justified, and I will also support this veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please. Two people who have been notified are not in the hall, so I invite you to your word. You don't want to! Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! The Wildlife and Hunting Act has, as a fundamental starting point, taken sustainable wildlife management by the proponents and has tried to integrate, to the greatest extent possible, the legitimate interests of all those interest groups that enter the area of game and hunting. Of course, the most important of all are the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have come to see in recent decades as their civilisational acquisition of the freedom of regulated consumption of forests as well as the limited exploitation of the fruits offered by these forests. As a legitimate group of stakeholders, hunters are also organised in a social organisation as part of civil society. The legitimate group are also forest owners, of course, and the legitimate group are farmers. Of course, it is not easy to combine all these interests in an ideal way in some way, but after a critical assessment of this law, we can probably conclude that the interests of all these stakeholders are included to a satisfactory extent. The law is designed to preserve those solutions that have proved to be appropriate in the past and to complement them with urgent innovations from our legal order. Why solutions from the past, not all, some? Of course, it made sense to preserve and upgrade those solutions that have made a significant contribution to the relatively good conservation of our wildlings and other wild species and their living environment. The law takes into account all European directives in this field, as well as international conventions. However, it is worth noting that the rule of law in the field of savagery and hunting is not part of the European legal order and that this issue has not been part of Slovenia's association negotiations with the European Union In this area, the European Union represents the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the legislation in this area is unifying, but explicitly leaves the Member States to regulate the area of savagery and hunting in a manner best adapted to the historical traditional tradition and other natural and cultural characteristics of individual environments. That is why the European Union countries also have very different hunting laws and systems. Sometimes even a number of different systems within one country. In a critical assessment of this law, critics could agree with that part of the bill, which goes in the direction of expressing the need for further elaboration of this law. We are aware of this by the bill's proponents, but we are assessing that the existing level of this law, as we are again considering in the National Assembly, is a good, even a very good framework for action in this area and for gradually better regulation of this area. Of course, I, too, personally believe that it is necessary to strongly reject the findings in the direction of illegality or unconstitutionality of those provisions of the law relating to prohibitions and restrictions on the environment of game and to interfere with various areas of human activity, such as construction, water regulation, agriculture, space regulation. Indeed, all the provisions of this Act are based on a constitutional provision whereby the law provides for a more detailed way of acquiring and consuming property by providing, inter alia, an ecological function of ownership. In the law, the solutions adopted are, in our opinion, balanced with the protection of the economic function of property. The problem of damage. We are aware of the difficulty of this area and understand, of course, that those who may have expected enormous increases in the amount of compensation from the new law may be disappointed. Of course, this law could not be regulated. But he could have arranged things in a slightly better way than it had been so far. In fact, we estimate that so far solutions have been respected that have reasonably taken into account the damage caused and have introduced a method of repairing the damage agreed between the operator and the injured party. It is known that only one percent of the damage cases ended up in court. We felt that this settlement model was being maintained. The law, however, is designed for the victims to have much more favourable hands than it has been before. In view of everything, we believe, I also personally believe that the request of the Council of State is not justified and I will re- back up the law in re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Comedian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. In my opinion, the law is a good solution to the nature and environmental function and, of course, also to the coexistence of humans and game, which, in the long years of urbanisation or the settlement of this space, has also come into some kind of conflict situation. I think that this conflict situation is being resolved by the law, and I will say satisfactoryly, because probably every marriage can always be better. Today, wildlings live in a certain area, which is limited and inhabited by people around and around. Sometimes I would even say that wildlings are already adapting to the habits of man. We often see that some wildlings graze just 100 meters away from the traffic centers, they no longer bother, some jokingly even say that they know when the hunters are and when they don't have to be afraid of the hunters or the other way around. Personally, I'm sure there's no harm in the wild in the woods. You can see that, maybe in some detail, but you can see that from the ethes, the adhesions are larger than the ethes allowed. We've had too much wood in the woods. We haven't cut it in years. But it is certainly on agricultural land, especially in those areas where wild game and man live on the border, causing damage, but the law should also regulate it. This is mainly a balanced stock which will need to be regulated through hunting plans. Here, too, hunters have the task of maintaining such a stock that is still acceptable for the environment and space. And this function, I think the law is doing a good job right now. Thus, in any case, all these functions, which the law is supposed to solve, are well solved in my opinion. I'm sure it'll be later, if it's necessary, if it's any other way to work it out, it's still possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Spindler? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anderlich? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking the representative of the state council, or does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I have certain things to explain, although I have little time available, even with regard to the perceptions at the expense of the State Council. It must be said that the Council of State consists of 22 representatives of local communities and 4 representatives of the interests of agriculture and of independent professions, which we were actually those who voted more or less in veto. However, I must say that this is precisely the part that says that representatives of local communities are not seen in this law. That problems of damage, problems between hunting families and owners of agricultural land are also problems of local communities, which are probably not seen by this National Assembly, but are seen by representatives of the State Council coming from certain local backgrounds. When Ambassador Juban speaks of fences, should he be asked whether the electric fence is not a fence for him? What is it, is it something else? After all, we cannot defend ourselves against a particular wildebeest other than the setting up of an electric shepherd. And the electric shepherd is a fence for me, maybe even better than any other. In all this matter and the entire treatment of this law, I greatly miss the expertise. Where's the profession? This bill has been adopted by a policy that decides the matter, and there is no profession here. The government should be the one to make the proposal. There have been many discussions, discussions between agricultural and hunting institutions and government representatives, but this has not happened. And at the end of the day, we have a proposal that comes from a policy that will take the matter on its own. In this matter alone, I cannot assume no responsibility as a representative of farmers, because the problems arising in this area are too great and we cannot solve them at this stage. I welcome the concern of Members of the Union for jobs which are among those who speak of hunting or hunting for special purpose. But no one sees the jobs of farmers who, as they already point out, will have to leave their farms because they will actually be turned over by savages. In this regard, the Chamber has already received quite a number of suggestions that the damage is large, that they are not settled and that they will have to leave their farms. More or less I have said a lot of this, much has been said, but once again I think that we are capable of making a better law in this country that will satisfy both interests. If so much time has actually taken place since 1976 until now, there has been no rush, nor is there any hurry this year, so I am once again calling on Members and Members not to adopt this law and to impose upon the Government to draw up a new proposal that will be coordinated. We all know we're not all going to make it, but we can make a deal. I think that this consideration has already shown for three, four months that we have made certain movements in a positive sense and that if we have three, four, five months left, we will also bridge what we have not been able to agree on. And I say that there is still an opportunity and that we Members will now take advantage of it and agree on it, and the government will draw up a proposal that will be coordinated and will satisfy all parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the motions? [[No, no, ……]] Since there is no time to discuss this item on the agenda, I ask whether anyone would like to discuss, under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, within the five minutes available. Please raise your hands to those who wish! Thank you very much. It is said that each five minutes in the following order: Mr Rokavec, Mr Rupar and Mr Sok. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Following the conclusion of the Council of State, I would like to ask the applicants honestly, in which you believe that the law proposed, if adopted, will better address issues of a conflict nature in particular, between landowners and landowners in the text of this Act or existing solutions. Frankly, I don't see any progress. Even the other way around. I see more questions. Now what Mr Juban wanted to sell in this House. On the contrary, those who are against special hunting grounds are in favour of abolishing rural jobs. That's a first-class design. No one's against special hunting grounds. We're not against it in our client. Only at the expense of specific hunting grounds and at the expense of maintaining jobs can it explicitly reach out to another property without the consent of the property, and also at the expense of taking away the normal possibility of management from the owner concerned and, consequently, as the representative of the Council of State has said, withdrawing the job, preventing farming or farming from becoming uninteresting. Perhaps for an existing generation enough to survive, but for a generation to come, absolutely unstimulating. This attitude, however, I think, is unacceptable and not only that in fact the state deletes certain citizens, but deliberately ignores them, deliberately ignores them, as if they are not so-called unnecessary factors. I find such an approach unacceptable. And the second question raised by colleague Kavčič is that those who expected enormous compensation from this law are not satisfied. I did not see in this debate that anyone would expect an enormous payment of compensation, but probably what is actually necessary to pay. It is likely that all of us who have had our doubts have personally made every effort to make this marriage less harmful. And what Komljanec said was that there is no harm done in the forests, even in agricultural lands, or that the current regime allows for the optimal stock transferred by a given environment is not true. We know that the stock in many environments is larger than what the natural environment carries, so animal feeding is necessary. Without animal feeding as a practice, this stock could not be maintained. Here are the most misunderstandings and also the most anger in the field. That is to say, very little needs to be done, but now that the issue is actually established, in this country, certain groups of citizens, including the dominant political groups, are establishing a way of regulating matters so that some citizens are less important or subordinate, while other citizens need to recognise privileged status. I think it's unacceptable for a democratic state. This law is also one of the fine examples of how such ignorance policy should not go. Once again, the question to the proponents: How do you think that the existing law will resolve those issues that have been resolved so far? Mainly at this level, landowners and, on the other hand, landowners. I believe it is unfair here to burden with the fault of the hunters or hunters. Here is the legislator or the country that is called upon to resolve this issue in such a way that it will not cause new conflict situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Rupar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'll support the veto, too. In general, I must say that I am against every law on hunting. I'm also very much against killing animals, not torturing animals. We regret to talk about laws that give on the one hand the possibility of ruthless and ruthless killing, and on the other hand, we can see that we are not really talking about animals or their existence or nature, but we are talking about money all the time. Who's gonna get the money now? Will it be the owners who cause savage damage, or the hunters who will kill this wild beast, which thank God for nature and God, for great money? I speak my personal opinion, and I am very distant from the opinion of the Group of Members. Personally, I do not think that I can defend even landowners on the one hand, although I am sorry that this is not more explicit than it was written in the law and causes disputes, but also, of course, intolerance, because again, I will say, we are looking at one assumption, it is as much to earn from this unfortunate savagery as possible. On the other hand, the horrendous lobby, the horrendous lobby that hunters have and are all over, I will say, the ecological forum - nonsens nonsesov - LDS have introduced such a law that freely allows killing. I'll say, including torturing animals, if at the end of the day it introduces the possibility of trap hunting. The municipalities, the local communities, the nature of the guardians, the people who care about nature and the animals, have simply overlooked this law because it knows that with a critical view to this insignificant slaughtering of the wild is a treasure. It's a treasure. And those in the wild, in the deer, in the deer, don't see a living creature in the deer, but only dollars and euros that fly like targets past it to "blend" as they say in their own words are not worth talking about. Hunting is easy for me to kill animals. I'm talking about the kind of hunting that, as a result or as an interest, has only money or the tranquillity or consolation of the man's inherited passion, of the kind of hordes that killed animals exclusively and only to survive, that is, for food. Today hunting is a commercial matter, I say again, for money or for passion that is inherited. The law, whatever we have, is not going to save anything. Nothing at all. So this is a completely wrong thing. Of course, people will only exercise their interests, I will say, at the harm that is minimal. Even a man of this savagery, which is in Slovenia, is not at risk. I am and there may be some encounter of a bear, a wolf with a man, but as much as animals and game threatens humans, it is negligible compared to those animals that walk on two legs, who have a mind and are called man, which every day I hear attacks with knives, slaughtering, killing a man. An animal gives us peace. Compared to these crimes, an animal is a negligible enemy to man. Well, I'm not gonna say there's no harm in agriculture, but there's so little damage that this country should pay with its left hand - with its left hand! - to all the owners who are responsible for it. No, let's put our guns on, but now we're going into the hunting charter, and now we're killing every living thing that lies down, what jumps, what's called an animal. It's not an animal relationship and it's not a relationship to nature. The relation to this is to protect this gift and this beauty and if it causes harm to someone, this damage will be corrected, which is most expensive for animals. In this respect, another matter is the sanitary discharge of the disease. These are things that don't belong in my speech and we should treat them differently. However, you do not take them into account in this law. In the end, I allowed myself to summarize or organize a paragraph in Article 5 of this Law, which deals with the vultures. What it says here isn't a bitch for me. For me, the vulture is a place where animals are killed because of passion, because of money, known or unknown origin, in order to gain material benefits or to feed the killer's passion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. And last one, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I must tell you, Madam President, and then to my colleague Potræ that I did not abuse the rules of procedure, absolutely not. For when the National Assembly discusses a law to which the Council of State has voted veto, it is also important to note the political dimension of the decision to be taken here today. And in this context, I have drawn attention to the possibility of a referendum and the costs that could arise in this regard. And I linked this to a similar situation that ruled in the National Assembly regarding the technical law on deleted persons. Well, that's what I've been comparing. You can think differently, you can say that I've abused the rules of procedure, but I'm saying no. This is not because, in particular, the opposition is currently guilty in relation to the technical law and the announced referendum, if the opposition is guilty of "smokin'" as we can read in the media, I don't know, 500, 600 million Slovenian tolars. The same was said last night in Odessa by Mr. Potsch: "Tell us how much these referenda will cost." It means, indirectly, the opposition, or those who signed this request. And if this is an abuse of the rules of procedure, then I accept it. But I'm sure that's not the case. In the debate by LDS Members it was heard that "an individual is obliged under the Constitution to suffer a limitation on ownership rights". I agree, it is his duty, but not in such a way that another individual can benefit from his account. And that's what this law about hunting and wildlings is about. Several times we demanded Members - I asked Minister Kopač myself yesterday the question of how much the trophies were worth. For today it is not hunted as did fellow Rupar, who said, for some pleasure after killing or for some economic reason, the interest in gaining meat. Today, hunting is a tourist activity and an opportunity for various hunting officials to collect hunting trophies. And this law of the district trophies releases it. Like there's no problem, he's gone. And I have with me a record that says that the hunting family "cassed" for three trophies of deer over 4000 German marks, and that that hunter who was a pursuer in this matter got a diary of 680 German marks. So, don't just talk about the ecological and environmental function of hunting! At this point, of course, hunting also has its economic function and this should be properly resolved in this law. To speak with this law on the collection of forest fruits, mushrooms and so on and to fear that owners of agricultural land and forests will ban this, which is, respected, pure demagogy. If we continue to lead this policy, which is dictated by the Liberal Democracy, then of course you can believe that with this catastrophic demographic policy that we have, the countryside will be empty and everyone will be able to walk and collect what they want - and thank God that the whole Slovenian countryside will not grow. This marriage, of course, doesn't solve. As far as damage is concerned, this law is actually empty, for Article 29, which imposes an obligation on agricultural land owners to protect their property, provides for a sub-law which is not available at the moment. It also authorises the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been deprived of all other competences in the field of damage in this law, to provide financial resources to the Ministry and to pay for all these damages. Let me finish because I'm running out of time. In fact, I do not know how you will explain in the European Union the situation that a farmer who lives on the Austrian side, who lives in Austria, but we are all in the European Union, can, by their legislation, obtain a hunting right, but a farmer who lives one kilometer away in Slovenia cannot acquire this hunting right under our legislation. You will have great difficulties, ladies and gentlemen, that you will be able to explain this situation and that, of course, they will understand why this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The law will be re-elected in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the 18.30 vote. This concludes this agenda item. To the representative of the Council of State, to the representative of the government and to all of you, thank you very much. At 12.50 p.m., we will move on to the 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of buyers of apartments and one-bedroom buildings. So at 12.50 p.m., we proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u70	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. Between us, I very much welcome the representative and the representative, Mr Minister from the Ministry of Environment and Space. We're moving to five. Period of the day - This is a second defensive proposal for a law on the protection of buyers of housing and non-residential buildings. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Good-bye. The bill was created as a direct response to certain anomalies occurring on the Slovenian housing market. It was one way or another in the Ministry's work plan, but we have also significantly accelerated its preparation in view of the current situation. The proposal for a housing law, which was adopted last year, already provided for additional protection for buyers who were not really there by then. Except, of course, common protections under the Land Book Act, the Bond Relations Act and so on. It has turned out that the people of Slovenia and those who enter the purchase of apartments and residential buildings are very often, because of the past, when they did not need to do so, the real ignorance that many times they believe that the fact that a signature is already certified is a sufficient guarantee that the content of the contract is also right and so on. In practice, many speculators or many speculators have shown that this is not true, so in the government we have decided to make a special law on the protection of buyers of apartments and apartment buildings, which introduces an additional instrument that we have not yet known in Slovenian legal history. The existing housing law, i.e. if I start with it, introduces two forms of customer protection; and this is a bank guarantee and a book of co-ownership rights on the land plot. In practice, a more or less banking guarantee is used at this point. In addition, the new Act on the Protection of Buyers and Single Houses introduces the possibility of a so-called insurance guarantee, according to the quality of the same bank and, far from being the largest part of this bill, the so-called guardian account. A trust account will be opened by a trustee's notary at a trustee's bank. It will be paid for by purchases for apartments and will be used only for the payment of goods actually delivered, services actually provided or in fact for the payment of a loan that has been made for the construction of a specific building or property for which a buyer of apartments pays for this trust account. Let me stress that as one of the options, the trust account will only be open in case of sale in advance. Anyone who builds apartments on his own behalf and sells them to final customers will, of course, not be bound to a bank guarantee or to a trust account or any other form of insurance. Thus, the trust account will in some way constitute a separate account with which the investor will not be able to manage itself, and this particular concern of the notary over this account will allow the money of the buyers of the apartments to be secured and will not be abused in short. We have found a model for this special new instrument for the protection of house buyers in Austrian and German law, and we have not found any similar models elsewhere in Europe, and I can therefore say that this is an exceptional form of protection for the buyers of apartments, which is so hardly known by any other legal order. However, as I mentioned in the introduction, our assessment was that this is still welcome in the Slovenian legal order because people are not yet so used to the fact that the fact must be entered in the real estate market with a certain legal verification. The bill was in coordination with all interested parties from the Chamber of Commerce to the Notary Chamber, consumer associations and so on, and is now in front of you without any amendments tabled, so I expect it to be dealt with and accepted quickly, but it should be implemented by the year 1.8. This is because these new legal instruments, which the law brings, nevertheless, require months of preparation for banks opening custody accounts and for notaries who will decide to join the role of custodian notaries. For the law stipulates that only some notaries will be guardians, not every notary just like that. The law also has some other innovations in terms of protecting customers that we have known so far, but they have been different according to content. For example, there is a significant increase in the thresholds to which penalties may be charged for irregular housing. And the novelty is that the law protects not only the final buyer of apartments, but also subcontractors, i.e. those who provide jobs or services and supplies material to the investor, they will also be paid from the trust account and therefore this law actually means, although the law on the protection of the buyers of apartments in the title also means the law on the protection of subcontractors of these dwellings and of one-bedroom buildings. This would be about the content of the law for a short time. I therefore suggest that you complete the hearing and accept it as soon as possible in order to protect the buyers of the apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Janko Weber, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. At its 50th meeting, on 15.1., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a regular legislative procedure. At the beginning of the adoption of the agenda, we discussed the proposal to withdraw this point, the proposal for withdrawal was submitted by Member Aloise Sok, and in the broad debate the Committee decided to reject the withdrawal, as it assessed that the safety of buyers of apartments and one-bedroom buildings is more important than the reasons set out in the withdrawal proposal, that the law is difficult to understand even for lawyers, let alone that it is understandable to be written for those to whom it is intended. Thus, the Committee has taken over the purpose and content of the solutions and the current events in Slovenia, in fact, on this market. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law-and-legislative service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Slovenian Chamber of Notaries, representatives of the Slovenian Consumer Union and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Bank of Slovenia and the Chamber of Lawyers also participated in the work of the Committee. This presence also speaks of the meaning and complexity of the law itself. Individual amendments were also tabled in the law and, of course, the Committee held a debate on articles and amendments and supported some amendments, but rejected some of them and also drafted some of its amendments. Following consideration of all these articles, the Committee held a debate on the articles to which the amendments were not tabled and, of course, supported these articles. Such a committee shall be noted that the law is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and with the amendments adopted by the Committee. Of course, we believe that the text of the law is even better and, of course, we believe that it is necessary for the law to be adopted in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law will be presented to us by representatives of the parliamentary groups. Next, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us, Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u75	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, here in Parliament said that the current housing law is a good enough basis to protect the buyers of apartments, but that the law we have before us today only further protects the buyers of housing and housing. On the other hand, Minister Kopač also says today, and more than once, that this marriage is necessary and that it was created by the affair of Zbilijski Gaj. But the truth about the affair of Zbiljski Gaj was primarily about the unemployment of state institutions, especially the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which should have prevented the construction that took place at the very beginning of the agreed or awarded construction permit. This did not happen, construction continued and later contributed to this complication, in our opinion, perhaps even deliberately caused bankruptcy, making the whole matter even more complicated. The fact that state authorities do not work and that certain - I could say - policies either at local or national level allow economic operators to do illegal work and that neither this nor any other law will prevent them. For the law is always written, I hope to say, for honest people, but for thieves it is necessary to use other areas in particular, to prosecute them and, of course, to punish them by taking away their illegal and unfair property. Now there is a law before us that, according to the minister, is supposed to prevent abuses in this area and creditors are expected to be safe in the future. In New Slovenia, however, we warn that the law is extremely complicated and that it represents, I could say, a real legal maze. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, among other things, stated in its opinion - reading: "We note that the proposal represents an extremely complex and complex legal area which is intended to protect the buyers of apartments and one-bedroom buildings. Existing legal institutions have been used and new ones have been added, all with a view to efficiency. However, since the law is also intended for sellers and buyers, it is necessary to find that the individual provisions are very extensive with a lot of references, making it difficult to understand the legal text." But the minister's answer to these allegations is that there is no need for the law to be understood by the buyers. He claims that it must be understood by sellers in particular. So let the buyers understand that this law now protects them and that they are absolutely safe. He's gonna take care of this new guardian's notary. However, in the case of the Zbyljski Gaj, were not all the buyers present in the notary and did not compile notary certificates on the verifications of the rules of the representative of Mebles d.o.o., did not the notaries draw up a notary record of administrative transactions and did not the seller undertake to build the building in the content of the notary record and deliver it to the buyers by 31.12.2002 at the latest? Of course, all this was done with the notary, but it didn't help. So from now on, how can customers trust the notaries and believe that they are safe in the future? The interiors will run a custody account with the trust bank. In addition to extremely complex legal formulations, the greatest shortcomings are the undetermined financial consequences for buyers under this law. While Minister Kopač says that the apartments will even be cheap, they will not be irritated, but we all know that in practice this will not be the case, and that all the prices charged by the custodian banks and guardian notaries will eventually be passed on to the buyers of the apartments. More! 59. Article 59 of the Act states that the guardian bank must monitor the construction process, which means that the bank will even have to leave or contractly hire a contractor who will be able to do so by law. In exchange for the increased costs, the trustee bank will even be so good as to pay interest on the custody account, in agreement with the client. ♪ 'Cause they'll be ♪ [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] interest, as promised by the government, in future taxes, will, of course, benefit the state treasury. [[...]] Let me get this straight. In Novi Slovenija we do not claim that the law is not necessary, but we are convinced that the law so written is incomprehensible and that in practice it will represent the possibility that the Zbiljega grove and similar affairs will also take place in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister, co-workers, colleagues and fellow Members. The proposal for a law on the protection of buyers of apartments and residential buildings is a direct consequence of the affairs that have shaken Slovenia's space. The most resilient injustice, designed for buyers of such properties, was the Zbilski Gaj affair, which was not the only one, but was an extreme example of what was happening in the real estate market. The buyers are becoming distrustful and in order to avoid possible inconvenience in the future, the government has drawn up a law whose fundamental principle is the principle of protecting buyers from risks related to the seller's compliance. Of course, in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members, we strongly agree with the proposal for a law designed to protect a weaker customer, i.e. a buyer, from a capital stronger market actor. The proposed law has partially affected the capital market, but according to the DeSUS delegation with good intentions. The proposal for a law to guarantee and register a co-ownership interest on land and insurance of an insurance undertaking already provided for by the Housing Act introduces also custody accounts maintained by notaries. The latter brings much more work to notaries and, of course, their considerable responsibility. But that's the responsibility. And the responsibility will most likely end up being paid by the buyers. In this part, we agree with the conclusions of some that the proposal for a law does not specify the financial consequences for the party whose law is actually intended for the buyer, in our opinion. An increase in financial costs may be necessary as a result of insurance, i.e. any risk insurance. However, given that almost all the actors involved were involved in writing, buyers, as well as investors, could have an estimate of the increase in costs, which is approximately a percentage in the case of bank guarantees provided by housing law. On the basis of the proposed law, it will no longer prepaid, but the buyer will only pay as much as it has already been built. This ensures greater security of paid purchases and their return to customers in the event of the investor’s inability to complete the construction or even its bankruptcy. But the law doesn't guarantee the buyer that he'll get the apartment. Thus, for reasons other than those mentioned in the law where the buyer may otherwise require the termination of the contract and the refund of the paid money, the housing facility may not be terminated. The caregiver of an unfinished object can cash out or can't return the money to the buyer. Thus, in the case of a trust account, and bank guarantees are concluded only if more than 10% of the purchase is paid in advance. Finally, let us draw attention to the problem of housing. As we know, there are 88% of ownership apartments in Slovenia after the last calculations. The Institute of Property is therefore very rooted in Slovenia. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are committed, which is also one of the main objectives of our party, in order to provide housing for young families and socially disadvantaged people. Of course, ownership of people means security and freedom, but despite the country's good intentions, not everyone can afford to own an apartment, so in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members, we would like to see a meaningful similar legal security guaranteed to tenants. The introduction of additional guarantees under this law in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners is considered necessary, if not necessarily. The law can thus count on the support of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you. Your Honor! Unfortunately, I hope that it is not too late for many buyers of apartments and one-bedroom buildings that the National Assembly will adopt a law to guarantee these buyers their rights in the purchase of apartments, not only from objective problems, which can also be found because of their lack of discretion on the part of investors or the sellers of apartments, but also from intentional abuses, which the latter want to take advantage of at the expense of the unregulated situation in the housing market. Although the competent ministry would not like to recognise this, this law is also prepared for reverberating housing deals, as we have all stressed so far. The media's most resilient, although unfortunately not the only one, was the affair of building protected apartments in the Zbilje Gaj. I hope that I myself, through public initiatives, have contributed to the fact that not only this case has begun to be regulated with more attention to the affected, but that this law has therefore begun to be prepared rapidly. This is finally included in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law. In view of the discussions on the working body and the fact that there is no amendment to the amended bill, I assume that we want this law to be adopted as soon as possible in all parliamentary groups. This is also the clear direction of our Group of Members. In doing so, we would like to stress that we believe that the available solutions are sufficient and that they will resolve at least the majority, if not all of the risks posed by the buyers of apartments and one-bedroom buildings in the real estate market; in particular those risks arising from conscious fraud or other misdemeanours on the part of investors or residential resellers. The practice so far shows that this is also the case. The desire to make a quick profit and to engage in business immorality was deeply encroaching on our reality. Unregulated legislation, inefficiencies in the prosecution and punishment of perpetrators of crime, as well as the social climate that magnifies rapid earnings, have contributed greatly, although it is known that they cannot be the result of work. However, the taste of social inefficiencies and inequality will remain, despite the law that has been passed, unless we try with concrete activities and on the basis of the knowledge that we have come up with in the drafting of the law, to solve other similar cases, such as the Zbilski Gaj - at least two I know for myself. One is the example of the buyers of apartments in the commercial zone in Trzin, and the other is the example of a group of creditors, the buyers of apartments to IPC Holding d.o.o. in the Brod business and residential complex. In this case, too, it is an investor’s bankruptcy, conditional insolvency proceedings and the possibility that the buyers will not only be at the apartment, but also at a large part of the purchase that has already been paid for the apartments. The difference, according to my information, is that the public and policy have not been sufficiently involved in these cases, so these buyers also feel that their deprivation will not be treated with equal attention. The latter have such a feeling even more justified, as they have also presented their problem to the Commission for petitions of the National Assembly more than a month ago, and they do not know whether, when and how the Commission for Petitions will try to help them solve this case. So I would like the commission to do it as soon as possible. I also expect the same conduct of the competent ministries to take account, of course, of the independence of the judiciary [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In addition, the fact that cases that are under-examined and where there is insufficient judicial practice are not yet sufficient, makes every effort to ensure that decisions are not taken without regard to the circumstances in which the buyers entered into contracts and without taking into account at least the objective responsibility of the State which has not been able to know the legal voids which enable and eliminate abuses in time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. A few months ago, we passed a housing law, which, according to the Department Minister's assurances, regulated all relations in the housing market and even further encouraged housing. Soon after the adoption of the law, however, it turned out that it contained the same and large hole as it was in the old marriage. This hole was exploited by various informal investors of the new metal, who were or were promoted in the local and national environments as successful and genuine entrepreneurs of the new wave. As a rule, they all used weak legislation, political ties and influential botts to get cheap loans, to collect land at favourable prices, and to make large and resilient transactions. The whole system was set up as a kind of game, only that at the time it was largely not pulled by various gamblers, but mainly by people with housing problems. They've drawn people into trouble. These are in the urgency and good faith to get housing, to pay heavily saved money at the expense of these modern star entrepreneurs. However, as in tradition, investors deliberately or accidentally "climbed", mortgaged real estates, recovered money from projects and re-transmitted it to other projects. The powerless, however, has been unrelentingly abandoned by the defrauded. None of these failed "jacks" live in lack, no one has any problems and procedures are almost unmoved, while the beneficiaries, not guilty or due, are struggling with exchange rate creditors for their property or for their assets, with which they have even made it possible to build. These customers didn't really have a choice. The circumstances forced them to solve their housing problem in one way or another, since both local communities and the country with their housing fund have been unable and cannot provide enough housing for many years. The gap between needs and opportunities is increasing. Many of these desperate people have therefore entrusted their business to real estate agencies, many of whom have made purchase contracts and made and performed businesses by lawyers or even notaries, given these contracts and procedures additional weight. However, as has been shown, many, except for the fee or fee collected, have not done anything for the security of the party. Here, both the Bar and the Notary Chamber should take decisive action, make order in their own kind and to whom they should also withdraw the licence. It is a problem of the business morality of individuals and institutions, which is also given to them by a dirty and scheming policy and an inconsistent judiciary. Even the tops of some of the most democratic and social parties stand for the many packaging we have witnessed in recent years. The nearby grove, which is supposed to cause this law, is not the only one that is so bound up. However, it is not clear why buyers in Zbiljska Gaj are the only ones to whom one of the government's parties has stood. Probably just because it amortises the unpleasant consequences in public and to protect the causes and their attachments. It would be much better to ensure that trials are carried out quickly and that actors are sanctioned. However, if the poor have already tackled these problems, it would be right and proper for all, but not just the Zbilje grove. It is more or less obvious that we recently passed half the housing law. Today we are dealing with the next third and the rest - who knows when. The law introduces a new way of operating through custody accounts in trust banks, brings new tasks to notaries, which gives hope that there will be more supervision and order on the market and that this investment package will be safer. However, only if the institutions operate and it is not just one, it is one of those laws that will earn some in advance. The explanation of the law is written in such a way that it has no side effects. The law lacks the financial implications that this mode of business will bring, as the fact is that neither notaries nor banks [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] new obligations will not be carried out free of charge and these costs will have to be charged to construction costs. [[...]] Also an important cost will be the potential rights of buyers in the event of the impossibility of the book, or in cases where the deficiency needs to be remedied, or whether there will be a delay in the transfer of the property. Nor is the estimated cost of the maximum mortgage to be concluded by the seller in favour of the trustee's notary. The proposer should assess the impact of the requirements of this Act, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] what will happen on this market where real estate prices are already so high. [[...]] Even though we have a number of concerns, we will support this law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Leopold Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you. We will support the proposal for a law, which is to be welcomed because it is a protection law, it is a law that protects a weaker article in this chain. It seems very important to us that the proposaler has done this way of writing the law and of course of this protection. Equally important, it seems to us that some countries, at least part of the model, have been incorporated into the law, so that the model has already been tested. The tested model provides greater guarantees that it will also be successful in practice, and we feel that this is a very good approach and that we should repeatedly use tested models, especially models that are tested in environments that are so difficult; in this case these are legally regulated and challenging environments such as Austria and Germany. It seems to us that such a model, which is partly summarized after these experiences, is a model that also guarantees us efficiency in practice; therefore, as we say, we are pleased to support this and we are confident that it will be more protected with us and in practice, that customers will be more protected than they have been before. And that's basically the purpose of this law, and that's why we're undermining it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr Zmago Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u85	Good-bye. Thank you very much for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we are going to throw up on account of the current coalition a few months before the elections, how it will manage everything that it cannot handle for 10, 12 years. What we find strange is how vehemently they now say that this law must be passed, due to the affair of Zbiljski Gaj, the neighbourhood of Brod, Trzin, the business and residential facility in Medvod. In the Slovenian National Party, these tenants visited IPC Holding and at that time the Slovenian National Party reacted already in November last year and we also wrote exactly where the core of everything is - to the Union of Slovenian Banks in Celovec. But of course, it seems that gentlemen in Celovac also have support from our side from the coalition that is running this country today and, of course, nothing has moved. Who's gonna pay all these people their money and everything? Looks like nobody. In order to get their eyes dirty and dirty, they're going to adopt this law in coalition. In this case, Brod and in all other cases, it is actually a bankruptcy of investors who, after a month, open a new company in two months, deal with the same business, go back to bankruptcy, open a third firm, etc. - for decades and more. The political boors do nothing to interrupt them, neither of these gentlemen has been convicted or accused or tried in court and probably will not. However, we are convinced in the Slovenian National Party that certain coalition parties who are here today promoting and watering crocodiles of tears over how they care - this is primarily about LDS and the United List of Social Democrats - would like to clean and clean up all the blames. We're sure the law isn't good. The law is ready to show something before the elections. We are confident and assess that, while the law does bring security and legal protection to some extent in the purchase of a new apartment, the law will generate additional incentives for already expensive apartments, given the legal provision that the buyer should not pay more than 10 per cent of the purchase when concluding a sales contract. In fact, investors will be forced to find other, more expensive sources of funding and thus the cost of housing transferred to the buyer will be significantly higher. Also one of the weaknesses is the Institute of Trust Accounts. Investors will certainly pass the cost of maintaining custody accounts to the final buyer, which will increase the price of apartments. We think that the law is ready quickly, because of the unsustainable situation on the market, because of the increasing scandals that are occurring and because of the increasing misperceptions that the government can no longer control and must somehow push them aside. He pushes them aside with a law that praises him for all the weights that he speaks, how he will accept it, and who talks about how he will help the Slovenians in all these areas. Let me get back to that IPC Holding and the Bank of Celovec. Why the Slovenian government does not terminate such associations of banks in Slovenia. This bank doesn't just show up here. Just in a few black or dark jobs she was already present, but no one! And yet nothing happens, and the gentlemen of the government coalition are silent, and then they fly for this podium, and they sink a few crocodiles of tears, and everything is fine. What is a Slovenian nation so stupid that it is so easy to pull on its nose? Looks like it. But I hope that one day he'll "swimp" himself. I hope it's autumn. I would ask how it is possible for known culprits not to pay, neither to take a car, Mercedes, house, weekend, yacht, or anything like that. While some single women who can't pay for electricity, they're sitting on that little bit of money they have -- no summons, no anything. I think this marriage is a smear of eyes. I don't think he's good, and I hope that this law will be evaluated primarily by the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Joint Party of Young Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. According to the last year’s affairs in construction, buying new apartments, especially after the Zbiljski Gaj affair, the law, which will allow additional protection for the purchasers of apartments, is urgently needed. The purchase of an apartment is, in most cases, a major investment for people or families, for which they have been saving for many years and still have an additional debt at the time of purchase. Buying an apartment is an investment that most people can only make once in their lives. It is because of the large resources and denials that these people are willing to invest in the purchase of an apartment that it is of great importance that their rights as buyers' rights are further protected by special law. Thus, no longer will the subject of the performances of various modern entrepreneurs who would like to make a quick profit by building properties. At the same time, they all forget about risk factors, as they also make more investments with a high level of risk, with questionable capital adequacy under the Financial Business Act and by means of housing buyers. As a result, it leads to bankruptcy of companies, where victims are not only subcontractors, workers who lose their jobs, but also buyers of apartments who lose their homes after years of denial. What are the pressures of these people, who are in good faith to get to a new apartment, ready to finance the construction of the apartment in advance and eventually lose everything, we don't even know how to imagine. Legislation is still very weak in this area, and in recent affairs we can see how abuse can occur. Therefore, in our view, this law needs an attempt to resolve these matters. However, despite all the Government's efforts to draft this law, we cannot go beyond some of the warnings already made on the infrastructure committee itself. The proposed law is totally incomprehensible to the wrongdoers. The fact that the law is a very complicated legal act has also been acknowledged by the minister. Thus, reading and interpreting this law is possible only with the help of lawyers and with great effort. As with legal opinions, we also know - two lawyers, three legal opinions - and thus we have extensive experience in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The introduction of a new form of insurance, the so-called trust fund, provides that the correct withdrawal of funds from this fund will be taken care of by the notary. Therefore, the fear that the law is written on the skin of notaries is more than justifiable. The fact is, with the proposed law, notaries will obtain a new deal and, of course, also a payment for it. The estimated percentages of investments to be charged by notaries will certainly not be very small. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the law because we estimate that the attempt is in the right direction, but we wonder whether, at the pace of housing construction and the relaxed trust of people in Slovenia, the law will have anyone to protect.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! That's right. There are fewer of us this afternoon. The proposal for a law on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings - in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the adoption of this necessary law, which will certainly raise the level of protection of house buyers on our housing market. We join those who point out that this is a very complex legal text, so the competent state authorities will also have to ensure a good presentation of the legal standards adopted in the field of consumer protection. We are convinced that it is a matter of introducing such important innovations that a large-scale activity will also be required to inform both buyers and real estate investors of the novelties of the law in an appropriate manner. There is also great responsibility for notaries and banks to monitor all such investments in the housing market. On the one hand, the question is whether all internals are sufficiently qualified to assume new obligations, on the other hand, if banks can successfully monitor all such investments in Slovenia. The test will be carried out by supervisors at the Bank of Slovenia, the Apartment Inspection and the Notary Chamber. It is likely that only a few years of experience after the implementation of the law will show if the law does not significantly reduce the already insufficient volume of such investments or allow only large investors and the State Housing Fund to run the housing market on the offer side. Such concerns seem to be highly justified as the current legislation allows for everyone to deal with housing investment. Certainly, so strict provisions of the law will deter a number of investors from doing business because they will see, in all the procedures prescribed, an insurmountable obstacle to the achievement of the objectives set. Although the founders have consistently taken into account the German and Austrian experience in the introduction of custody accounts, they seem to be able to establish that their situation is even more similar to that of our own, but we are confident that greater consideration of the situation in our real estate market would further adequately protect our housing buyers. It would suggest that additional fuses should be introduced, which would also protect the co-investors, in particular by requiring the establishment of a new company for each such investment, whose share would be purchased by the buyer together with the apartment. This is a common and established practice in our and foreign real estate markets. It is true that such a matter would further undermine investment, but we are confident that in larger projects it would certainly produce better results. Its good side would also be a much simpler relationship between investors and home buyers and, above all, a significantly greater possibility of completing the investment. The content of such a law would also be much simpler and more understandable in such a case. It is also concerned that our legislation still does not sanction individuals who abuse investments for various manipulations by preventing them from carrying out such and similar activities. In a mockery of the rule of law, it would be possible for individuals and companies that have caused mass damage to the buyers of apartments to re-act on the market. We are convinced that these options must also be taken into account in the drafting of legislation on the protection of home buyers. Despite these concerns, we are confident in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that time will show all the dimensions of the law that has been passed and that the current situation does not allow excessive delay and long-term search for the best solutions to protect the buyers of apartments, as new affairs always show that action is needed very quickly. That is why we also support the proposed law and the amendments adopted by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 29.1.2004, following the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and Government representatives very much for their cooperation. I would like to inform honourable Members and Members that in 7 minutes, this is at 1:45 p.m., we will move on to the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u91	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're moving to six. Point of the agenda - This is a second-hand proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxis. Please calm down in the hall so you don't disturb the session. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, I think this will be Mrs Milojka Kolar, Secretary of State. I also welcome Mrs Matejo Vraničar, Minister of Government. I ask for an introductory explanation of the bill. You have 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Very nice to meet you all. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Law on Administrative Fees is one of the rules which relates to a number of other administrative actions and is, of course, also reflected in a number of other rules. It is for this reason that there is a need for continuous monitoring and amendment of the Law on Administrative Fees. With this bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees, the Government wants to harmonise, on the one hand, with the applicable domestic legislation, and also with European legislation, which we will start implementing with Slovenia's entry into the European Community. The amendments consist of two sets of changes per content; the first set includes changes in the payment of fees for certificates from official records, the introduction of payment of charges for location information and, of course, the abolition of charges for location permits, given that material provisions have been amended in this area. In the second set of amendments, we take into account the changes related to the implementation of European legislation abolishing customs duties and the provisions on the harmonisation of the amount of visa fees for foreigners wishing to travel to Slovenia with the amount of fees charged by the Member States of the European Community. Thus, by supplementing Article 3, we propose that the Law on Administrative Fees shall not apply to the payment of those costs of administrative acts and documents whose payment is extremely different under European rules and for which acts are carried out or for which documents are issued free of charge. The Government proposes that the law enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal. Only those provisions relating to the abolition of customs duties and the provisions on the application of European law, instead of the Law on Administrative Fees, are proposed to enter into force as of 1 May of this year. The Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Administrative Fees Act at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Pucko, will present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! That draft law was considered by the Committee as a parent working body at its 45th meeting. In this regard, we have paid particular attention to the comments of the legislative and legal services and have prepared and adopted appropriate amendments on this basis, and have thus partly improved the basic text of the law. The Committee thus gave particular attention to the provisions of Articles 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 13 and 14. This is how we have adopted the amendments to Articles 3, 6, 13 and 14, and I propose that we also adopt the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. Majda Zupan will give her position on the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As a proponent, as has already been said, the government would like to make it possible, on the one hand, for customers with a poorer property situation, to be exempt from administrative fees, for example, for the issue of a identity card or passport. In a reciprocal manner, it aligns the position of foreigners with the position of Slovenian citizens in the event of a finding of poor property conditions, generating the same benefit. On the other hand, it foresees an increase in visa fees at border crossings, a location permit where we believe that young families are no longer exempt, and a location information. The proposal simplifies the way administrative fees are charged for issuing certificates from official records that are to be valid when the administrative authority in respect of the customer’s request is a taxable person, obtaining data from the official records of other administrative authorities in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In accordance with the proposed European Guidelines for the Supplementation of Article 3, this Act would not apply if the payment of administrative costs is otherwise regulated by European legislation or if it provides for a party to carry out an administrative act free of charge or to issue an administrative document. It is interesting, as has already been said, that the applicant foresees that that part of the law, which does not relate to compliance with European law, would enter into force after the expiry, i.e. after a normal 15-day period, and the provisions relating to compliance with European law, with the entry into the European Union, with 1.5.2004. We support the proposal in most of the provisions, so we will not oppose the proposal in our parliamentary group, in New Slovenia, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on administrative fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you. Leopold Groselj will give the position of the United Nations Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u98	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues welcome. In the existing law on legal fees, we also had certain provisions, which also related to the implementation of the customs system, this is a so-called customs charge, which is why the proposer, with these amendments and additions to the laws on administrative fees, wanted to make those changes which affect solely the domestic jurisdiction and the legal system, and to the other part which interferes with the harmonisation of the legislation in relation to the Council of the European Community or also with exceptional positions or proposals. Thus, of course, we could somehow divide into three parts of the amendment of this law. In this first part, it concerns the payment of the costs of work of customs authorities, which is also mentioned in the presentation of the regime, since it will also be regulated after Slovenia's entry into the European Union by binding European rules; in another area which may also relate to European rules in the field of administrative fees, which also affect visa fees, and in the area of the payment of visa costs, which is also regulated in European legislation by Council decisions of the European Union which are binding on all Member States, there is therefore no specific difference between them in this area. In the chapter referring to these main solutions to this Act, the applicant tries to amend Article 23 as well as the corresponding tariff numbers also allow customers in poor property situations to apply the exemption of administrative fees also for the issue of a ID card or passport. It may also be necessary to mention this amendment, which would also simplify the way administrative fees are charged for issuing certificates from official records, and perhaps another area where this law on administrative fees is also very closely linked to the law on general administrative procedure and other laws which substantively regulate the areas of individual administrative authorities, which, of course, also includes certain terminology and editorial harmonisations between the rules. It may also be interesting that the applicant in these proposed amendments indicates, on the one hand, that the operating costs of the taxable persons who import and export goods or carry out customs procedures will be reduced by economic effects with regard to the termination of customs duties and, on the other hand, that the costs of obtaining certificates from official records due to the amended tariff number of the four-tier tariff will be slightly increased for those such debtors who will require the issue of certificates from the official records of the administrative authority, and that the administrative authority will have all the data for issuing certificates on its own. The Legislative and Legal Commission has also made some comments on the amendment of this Act in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the technical and legislative aspects which the Committee has also fully adopted, so that a joint group of Social Democrats will submit a proposal for amendments and supplement or fully support this amendment to the Administrative Fees Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance. While we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party the first purpose of this amendment of the law, or this amendment and amendment of the law, which mainly speaks of the organisation of administrative fees to the principles of this area in the Member States of the European Community and here in some way unifying and harmonising this area. On the other hand, we are problematic in raising administrative fees for certain administrative actions, in particular on the Finance Committee, we have asked for more detailed answers to what and on the basis of what arguments the Government proposes to raise the fees for certificates issued by the authorities on the basis of official records from 10 points to 15 points. This is a 50 per cent irritation that should be argued in some way, and unfortunately we have not received any answers. On the other hand, we are asked a big question about the introduction of local information fees. In particular, in this principle, that the location information services are dealt with today mainly by the administrative authorities of the municipalities, which, in order to carry out this new task of regulating the premises laid down in the legislation, also had to employ the relevant staff. The scope of the work of the municipal administrations has increased considerably with this new task, and of course no source was found. And in Article 10 of the proposed amendment of the novel, of course, the local information is provided for by the legislator or the government of the new items, in order to determine, for the location information for the construction of the buildings and for the execution of other parts, a 250 point fee, for the real estate traffic for the location information 125 points and for the establishment of construction plots for the existing 125 points. These are all tasks performed by the municipal administrations and also fees are shared in some way between the municipalities and the state, but they go to an appropriate spending, which means that most municipalities receiving compensation will not gain anything in fact, just new work and this arrangement, forgive, are not properly and again imposing on officials and municipalities any new obligations, without providing a source of funding for these new obligations. Of course, we cannot deny such an approach and we cannot support it and, of course, we also oppose it in some way. We believe that, of course, it is the task of this country, in particular by means of measures to be followed by the Anti-Birocratic Programme, to in some way relieve the officials of administrative action after unnecessary and, of course, also the parties to unnecessary waiting outside the window. In this respect, he made a law on the general administrative procedure which obliges officials to obtain data from official records so that they do not impose it on the parties. On the other hand, I see that, after this bill, the parties will, of course, have to pay this, despite the fact that bureaucracy in the state budget is reflected in increasing wage and material costs items. On the other hand, the State imposes obligations on others and therefore provides resources for itself. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot support and further endorse such an approach and we should consider different solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Pucko will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will refer to the updated bill proposal by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, mainly for the following reasons. Firstly, because we are removing the inconsistencies identified by the European Commission on the progress of Slovenia. Secondly, because we are coordinating the General Administrative Procedure Act with it and following changes in material legislation, in particular legislation on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees, which we are talking about today, really respects the substance, according to which the costs of the administrative authority to issue an administrative document or to carry out an administrative act are paid only once. In doing so, taking into account the legal nature of the rules of the European Community governing the payment of administrative costs for the work of customs authorities, the proposal for a law creates a solution that prevents double-counting of these costs. These are the facts that are laid down under this law. Well, questions are beginning to arise when we look at the financial consequences of the law, where we first find that, due to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the projected revenue from customs fees is only due to 1 May of this year. At the same time, from that date on, the loss of customs revenue was to be offset by the retention revenue of 25% of the import duties collected. Even if this is so and also on the basis of assumptions that the revenue in the state budget under this heading should increase by about 350 million per year, we are a little skeptical in the Slovenian National Party and would have a number of questions about how this will be possible. Well, it was particularly interesting on the Finance Committee when one of the respected colleagues stressed that fees should not be charged for those activities involving applicants and documentation seekers as a consequence of natural disasters. Well, the answer given here today by Mrs Vraničarov was, from a systemic point of view, a problem to support such a dictatorship. I am not sure about this and we are not sure about this in the Slovenian National Party. Article 5 of which my predecessor, a respected colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party, has already spoken of, has clearly shown that the price rise of administrative certificates in some areas is 50%. It was said that this was at the expense of the procedures to be carried out by the administrative authorities without payment. Well, so far I have not found an answer, which are all these procedures that are supposed to be carried out by the administrative authorities without payment. It is also very problematic, according to the Slovenian National Party, Article 10, where the division of work is concerned, namely the specific location information already mentioned. The work is transferred to the municipal administration, i.e. to the local community and, of course, the money is collected on the national side. It was indeed said that local communities were to be seen that for those location information fees they received these funds if they were paid in cash. This is also a very strange dictatorship, according to the Slovenian National Party. We also asked how some fees are shared by a system, something by a country, something by a local community, and something by a local community. However, all of this is actually irrelevant, because even if the work carried out by the local community is a part of these administrative fees transferred to the local community, it is, of course, a parallel lower financial settlement or otherwise; this means that if we talk a little bit about it, the local community gets the state money, and in fact the same money it gets through the tax, it is out of the financial balance. In view of the problems I have mentioned now, I must say that the Slovenian national party to this proposal will not support the amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 29.1.2004 following the end of the agenda, i.e. in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue the meeting at 2.20 p.m. on the 7th item of the agenda. Until then, a nice greeting and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u106	We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day - this is a second defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was tabled by Mr Pukšič and Mr Kelemin. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, this will be colleague Franz Puksič for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government, nice greeting. Unfortunately, I have to find that, in fact, from the first reading of the law, what I was afraid of happened. The law was adopted in the first reading on 27.11. If the ruling coalition, the Liberal Democracy, the United List had any at least minimal serious purpose, then it would be dealt with in a second reading in December, and so could be valid for the 2003 period, for the year behind us. Of course that didn't happen. What has happened is that you can expect from the arrogance of power that the amendments that my two fellow Members have tabled have not been adopted, for a key reason that nothing would have changed and that, of course, there is a vote on such a law that was tabled in the National Assembly seven years ago. Clearly, and we have already said at the first reading that we are going to amend it and that some things have changed significantly from then to now. Arrogance is just the way it is. Among other things, Mr Mirko Bandelj, on behalf of the Government, says why they do not support the proposed law. This is the case: "It notes that the situation has changed significantly in 1997 at the time of the submission of that proposal and therefore there is a need for a comprehensive change in the system of taxation of the income of natural persons." It's all good and good. And then he goes on to say, "In addition, it is necessary to adapt the income system to internationally comparable standards and regulations of the European Union." Unfortunately, he did not say that the wages of workers and workers will also be adapted to internationally comparable standards and regulations of the European Union. So there'll be no more pay with 50 or 60 grand. As for the amendments that have been tabled and which would, of course, contribute significantly to lowering the income forecast and, I will say, limiting this already-screaming state in some areas, but only so much. Look, we suggested that the income base be reduced by 15% of the average annual salary, which would mean about 450 thousand dollars in this case. So 11 to 15. Why? Because what is said about the so-called 3% reduction - we find that most, but not just us, but also from Dursa's data - is found that most of those with the lowest income classes cannot actually apply these 3% reliefs. Why can't they enforce them? Because those with the lowest personal income, of course, need funds to survive. They do not have the resources that they could use as a relief, since Article 9 mentions 11 and 14 various reliefs as a relief. These include the purchase of securities, then for the purchase or construction of apartments, then for investments in monuments and cultural monuments, then, for example, for schooling - music school, language courses, postgraduate studies - then, for example, reduction for funds invested in shares and shares and so on. In short, we have warned, we warn inadvertently, except in rhetoric, nothing has changed that the differences between the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia are unfortunately increasing. And the question is, of course, how long will this be possible? Today, a large proportion of Slovenian citizens and citizens are on the verge of survival, when they have neither food nor clothing, when they have no housing, when they have no chicken, when they do not have children for school supplies, and when they do not have them for their own children's footwear and diet. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition has decided that even after seven years of such a thing that would have improved these social structures, I will say nothing but ease the current situation, it does not want and does not want - and does not want to - jump to help, so of course it is thinking about spending billions in other areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered the draft law as a working body and will present the Committee's report. Please, Mr. Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government. The Committee, as a parent, carried out a second examination of the law, taking into account in particular the following. The Committee was given an opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not support the proposed law, but highlights in particular the fact that the situation in the period leading to the introduction of the law submitted in 1997 has changed significantly and therefore a comprehensive change in the taxation system of natural persons is needed. To this end, as well as to adapt the system of income to internationally comparable standards and regulations of the European Union, the Government has tabled a proposal for a new law on income into legislative procedures. The basic objectives of this new law are also the global burden on income debtors, especially those in lower income classes that will be fully burdened, up to the minimum income, as set out in the Social Protection Act. The new legislation is expected to apply to our good work from 1 January of the following year. The Committee considered the amendments tabled in the procedure by its fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, at Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 and did not accept them. On this basis, it adopted the following conclusion: "As the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent body of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, has not adopted any amendments, the Committee notes that, at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a vote is taken on the draft law in the proposed text, which was published in Rapporteur No 59/97 of 15.12.1997." Following the hearing, the Committee also adopted the following conclusion: "The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee of the National Assembly asks the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the Court all statistics on the implementation of the applicable Income Law in relation to the estimated financial consequences of the new Income Act, for which general treatment is already required." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the position of the members of the groups, nor has the home working body adopted any amendments to the draft law, so no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the committee and no amendments are tabled, nor is it possible to discuss the articles and any amendments tabled. This concludes the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote on the bill will take place on Thursday 29.1.2004 under the voting point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government - summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed winner, Jelinčič Trimeniti. In this regard, the Law proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Rule 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft law. Does he want an explanation? I don't see the presence and desire. While I welcome the representatives of the government, who have not made a statement, I will therefore proceed to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give my first statement to Majdi Zupan for the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The mutual incompatibilities of public functions, in particular the functions of the Member and the Mayor, have been being violated by Members for a good time. The Slovenian national party with its first-signed counterpart, Zmob Jelinčič, goes even further with its proposal to supplement the law on local self-government; they want to supplement the law on the issue of compatibility and the simultaneous exercise of functions in public authorities. This is supposed to be the role of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Member of State, the Secretary of State, etc., even a number of government officials and officials of other state bodies with the function of mayor and mayor. The proposal is intended to follow the constitutional principle of the division of power and the principle of the independence and autonomy of local governments and to express fear that there may be a conflict of interest when, for example, a public official exercises powers in relation to the control of the legality of the work of local authorities, as well as in the case of the exercise of a legislative function when they collide with the regulation of development and the position of the local community. Since these are less difficult changes, we are considering the proposal following a reduced procedure on the proposal, which does not reduce the fact that this issue needs to be properly addressed, so we do not oppose the proposal in our Group of Members. We have always advocated the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, because we believe that it is a conflict of interest and that the current solution does not produce the optimal results of the work of Members, who are also mayors, and vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you. Position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners [[DeSUS]] He's going to introduce Private Cheligoy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u113	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Your Honor! Amendments to local self-government legislation have become permanent in Slovenian legislation since the adoption of the basic law, the provisions of the law are constantly being amended or amended or repealed by the Constitutional Court in the constitutional procedure. Thus, we have witnessed nine changes since 1993. The situation is obviously not calming down, as we currently have two laws in the National Assembly that would like to cut into this matter. In all of this, however, it is more than just a matter of supplementing one of the articles of the law. It is therefore also a question of the relationship of individual branches of government. We are in the DeSUS Group until we have considered the amendment of the law, which results in the identification of the incompatibility of the mayor's function and subordinated to the individual public functions of the executive and legislative branches of power, being skeptical. However, the administrative authorities, which, according to the applicant, should also be subject to the incompatibility of the functions mentioned above, do not define the Constitution. We are skeptical of the form and content of the proposal. The DeSUS Group certainly does not support the proposed change in the work whereby the mayoral or sub-martial function would be incompatible with, for the most part, the non-professional function of the state councillor. In our view, as part of the legislative authority with 22 representatives of local interests, the Council of State can better and more effectively defend local interests if there are people in it who probably know better or better what is of interest to a particular municipality. On the other hand, the work of the National Assembly can also be better supervised by the appropriate composition, even if the mayors of individual municipalities no longer sit in it. The incompatibilities of the function of the Member and the Mayor would be achieved as quickly as possible by amending the Law on Members, which is also recommended due to the systematic nature of the regime. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that change is also necessary because of the principle of the division of power, because the legislator cannot be someone who also enforces laws within its mayoral function. On the other hand, the supervisory powers conferred by the National Assembly in relation to the work of the mayors in relation to their direct election are also disputed from this point of view. The answers to these questions are not uniform, nor will they appear on their own unless we seriously and consistently define the relationship between individual authorities. It might be useful to define the criteria for when the mayor's function can be unprofessional and when he should perform exclusively professionally, following the example of some other countries. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Committee's decision that the bill is not suitable for further consideration and wait for a more consistent and more consistent law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Government. The proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government is not the first to address, in the opinion of the applicants, the issue of the incompatibilities of performing executive functions in local community bodies with functions in the legislative and executive branches of government. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, I must reiterate the position that we have repeatedly expressed in our Group that we are aware of the importance of this issue, and that we have repeatedly expressed our position on the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. However, this raises the question whether, at the time when a government proposal for a law on local self-government is prepared, it makes sense to support corrections only in one article and in the way that we are witnessing it. The government proposal is more comprehensive in the reform of the legal regulation of the wide area of local self-government, among other things the issue of non-compatibilities of functions has been newly addressed, according to the government, rather than existing regulation and even better than the proposal under consideration. Although the applicants refer to two constitutional principles, namely the constitutional principle of the division of power and the principle of the independence and autonomy of local governments, they consider that these are less difficult changes and therefore propose the adoption of legislation after the shortening of the procedure. However, experience so far, especially with the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, shows a lack of uniformity and gives little hope that the form in which the supplement is proposed would also be acceptable. The legislative and legal service warned that the proposal does not summarise the existing regime of incompatibility when it comes to the President of the Government, the President of the Republic and the Minister adequately and fully, if it already seems necessary for the applicants to summarise where he introduces new functions, for example for a member and a member of the Council of State, the official of the services of the National Assembly, the official of the Government and the official of the other State bodies, which is constitutionally controversial or too general, and therefore is insufficiently precise - the fundamental reason why the United Nations Group of the Social Democrats will not support the proposal of the law, as it follows that the drafter of the basic objective and principles of the law, as presented in the introduction, was not able to address in addition to Article 37b of the law on local self-government. The solution limiting the incompatibility of the mayoral and submunicipal functions is too narrow, since if the broader purpose of the law was to achieve absolute incompatibility based on conflict of interest, it should apply to all municipal officials, i.e. to municipal councillors, of course, whenever there is incompatibility with the Member's function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by counterpart Saša Peče. Please. There has been a change of comrade Victory Jelinčič Plementi, please have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank you for not allowing Mr Pečet to say the position of the Group of Members, but this is understandable, because in the United List of Social Democrats and in the Liberal Democracy, whenever you wish, you are prepared to confirm everything and have a duplication, tripled, a revaluation of every function, only to be able to draw more on the nose and for some other Slovenian voters and citizens. We have introduced this law or bill to supplement the law on local self-government in order to avoid the exact hydra called excessive power. And gentlemen from the ruling LDS coalition and the United List of Social Democrats, you have too much power, you abuse it, you cheat and I don't know what else you're doing on behalf of this authority. And right now, Mr. from the added coalition party of the United List and the DeSUS does not allow, does not allow a fellow Member, Mr Pece, to say anything more about this law. You excuse yourself to arrange things better elsewhere, and why you have not already used it elsewhere, and you have done so better before the time of day! Or we would be doing something at the last moment because the elections are coming because you are suffering from media support, because citizens and citizens and voters and voters have slowly begun to overlook you, and to see that behind you are not principles and principles, but their own benefits, which you are trying to renew in one way or another. He has to say very successful so far. I hope that the authorities will change, and I hope that those who have been only proclamative for the welfare of the Slovenian people will be able to call and question the relevant authorities once and for all, and examine the wallets that have gained weight in some of the unbearable ease. It would be imperative to amend the law in this segment so that the mayor cannot also be a Member. Although the Slovenian National Party has the mayor, who is also a Member, Mr Barovic also agrees that it is an inappropriate solution that duplicates functions. One cannot speak and defend the interests of local communities and at the same time defend the interests of the state. Things are at stake here. These two matters do not go together, and this should be settled. But--no! Because you have such a number of Members, who are also mayors, of course, you will not deviate from the authority that has so sweetened your life. I hope the voters miss it! Although I do not think that the press is likely to publish this, as they do not publish many more because the masters need to listen. Unfortunately, even in this segment you can still see some kind of serviceability of the Slovenian nation, which is quite present in many. I'm sorry. I think it makes sense for the law to be adopted. But it looks like I'm talking out here. I speak empty because it's hard to get off the rails where you sit so well, where you can see it so far, and with which you can contaminate everyone under you. It's just a common thing you use everywhere. Therefore, even if you do not accept this law, the law is meaningful, the law is necessary, the matter is necessary in order to settle it. I know you won't because you don't want her, then you would cut off a lot of what you're doing here, there, left, right, one way or another; but, however, the law is needed, the law should be voted on, but you're doing it anyway and only for your own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you, dear colleague, the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Whenever I make an exception to any other party and violate the rules of procedure, remind me of that. This time I did as the rules of procedure say. Marko Diaci has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. After a good two-month period, the bill-maker also proposes to amend the Law on Local Self-Government on the basis of findings and excuses for considering amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as has been pointed out by both government representatives and the majority of parliamentary groups. As we also see in this bill, although it is properly placed, it does not have sufficient support. That is why in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia we will also reiterate what we have already presented in the consideration of the substantive equivalent proposal at the 30th regular meeting of the National Assembly. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law which establishes the incompatibility of the functions of the mayor and the County Municipality with the function of Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia immediately, and not calculatively only in 2006 or later, in particular in the desire to finally make a clear border between the executive and legislative branches of power. According to the Constitution, the Member is a representative of all the people and is not limited to the boundaries of his own congregation. This conditionally stated non-constitutionality of the parliamentary party has been tolerated since the independence of the Parliamentary Party, of course, strictly convertible and in line with the narrow client needs, so that you place local parade horses on the list of candidates for members of the National Assembly. This means, in practice, that mayors, in addition to the pre-election spending of local budgets for mayoral election campaigns, are doing this well in the framework of the national elections. Of course, in the abundance of the work they have in the two services and thus speedily devote themselves to the work of the congregation even when the elections are near, there would be nothing wrong with this if it meant that these projects, on which the tapes would then be cut just before the elections, would reflect the actual needs of the majority. This is not the case in most cases, and this is why municipalities get into big liquidity problems every two years, first before local and then two years before the national elections. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law, aware also that the difference is to be mayor in the municipality with a few hundred people and to be mayor in the municipality with ten thousand and more people and that in all parliamentary parties, except for the one who proposes the law, the mayors from various parties have long ago been firmly fixed as priority candidates for members of the National Assembly and that you will therefore object to this proposal and excuse yourself for not knowing how many years from now. So obviously, our votes will not significantly reduce the large differences that remain up to the necessary majority for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! The content of the bill is to supplement Article 37b of the Law on Local Self-Government with a new first paragraph, which is intended to regulate the irreconcilability of the mayor's function and is subordinated to the functions of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Member, the President, the Member and the Officer of the Council of State, the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Officer in the services of the National Assembly, the Government Officer and the Officer in the other State bodies. The proposal to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government was based on the finding that, under the Slovenian Constitution, it is not compatible to carry out functions simultaneously in the legislative and executive branches of government, and the proposal is based on the constitutional principle of the division of power, under which the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government is stressed, and on the principles of the independence and independence of local self-government. The proposer seeks to regulate the incompatibility of municipal functions with the function of the legislative and executive branch of government, where the bill-makers have tried to regulate non-systemically, since the intercompatibilities of public functions are governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by a series of laws. Concerning the incompatibilities of a member of the State Council with the mayor and the mayor, the proposed regime is even constitutionally disputed [[100th Article of the Constitution]] since the Council of State consists of a majority of representatives of local interests, which means that the Council of State is established as a representative body primarily of local interests. It is therefore a member of the Council of State that must, and because of active cooperation and knowledge, be able to represent the interests of the local community. These interests can only be represented if they are an active member, as the legislative and legal service also says. The function of a member of the State Council is honorable, that is, unprofessional. Representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service have also pointed to the provision referring to the role of the President of the Republic and the fact that his function under the Constitution is incompatible with every public function and profession, as set out in Article 105 of the Constitution, and cannot be regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. They would also point out the incompatibilities of the function of Member and Mayor, who does his work unprofessionally. The incompatibilities of the function of a Member and of the mayor who performs his or her functions in a professional capacity have already been established. This is regulated under Article 82(2) of the Constitution and is specified in Article 10 of the Law on Members. At the same time, we would like to point out that the incompatibilities of the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary and mayoral functions in the European Union are explicitly prohibited by only two countries, Greece and Ireland. The sense of the current regime, which allows the ambassador to perform the mayoral function at the same time unprofessionally, is also justified by the smallness of Slovenia. As a small country, we need direct contact with local guidance, which enables us to perform these two functions simultaneously. What would happen to this country if it did not have at least so much contact in the National Assembly with local self-government so far? In fact, the proposed solution is a complete alienation of the local environment from the state. This is unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party and we also consider it unacceptable for the State of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the incompatibilities of these functions lead to a situation where there could be insufficient knowledge by the National Assembly and therefore a misunderstanding of the situation at local level. Members, who are also mayors, are, of course, an important link between developments and knowledge of local issues and can contribute to the resolution and development of appropriate solutions in the legislative branch of government. Therefore, they decide whether they are able to perform both functions at the same time; the electorates have the opportunity to say at each election, both mayoral and national elections, whether they are satisfied with the simultaneous exercise of both functions of a particular individual. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the bill because we believe that, even from this point of view, whether the mayor is a saint or not, everyone can lobby for the local environment as far as possible. And it is in the interest of the state to maintain a link with the local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. These were the views of the groups of Members. My friend Peca has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u123	Madam President, I am merely asking you, on behalf of political hygiene, that since we have another 25 minutes of time, which will otherwise remain unused, the fact is that the next item starts at 15. 20 hours irrespective of anything to enable the bill to be proposed, especially when the law speaks of non-compliance with the Constitution and of possible violation of the principle of the division of power, in order to give a few minutes of explanation to the bill. We are talking about an extremely important law that is reflected both in the normative part of the Constitution and in the fundamental principled division of power in our country. In particular, I would like to stress once again, whether you will allow me to propose a word or not, the National Assembly will continue in 25 minutes; so let us not lose anything at this time if you allow us to correct the error that actually occurred for 12 seconds on our side, but also the fact that this State Assembly, under your leadership and under any other leadership, has also allowed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when it has been the proponent of individual laws, to start a point with one minute, let's say, a delay. Please, if you'll allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you, for your proposal. Everything has been carried out to this end in accordance with Rule 134, second and third paragraphs. I understand your procedural proposal as well-intentioned. I ask the Members and Members present, does anyone mind that we use these five minutes at our disposal for this introductory presentation? Under the third paragraph of Article 134, five minutes of colleague Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u125	Dearly beloved, I thank you for this opportunity, but allow me two more, three words around the law itself. The idea of incompatibilities in the performance of the function between the mayor and the MP is not new, this is a fairly old idea in the Slovenian National Party, the goal we have been pursuing since 1994. We have tried to resolve the objective within the framework of the three laws on elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Members, the Law on Local Self-Government. However, whenever we put any law into consideration, the opinion of the majority in this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was that it was the wrong content of the title. But we have tried to define matter in all three possible laws; therefore, even the argument that this time we are dealing with the wrong law cannot be held to our assessment because we have taken full advantage of all the possibilities. Why are we assessing in the National Party that the existing arrangements are unacceptable? First, for a reason, because we are convinced that the collection of various state functions or local functions is unacceptable. That persons should not or should not be duplicated in different functions; and, more importantly, in order to establish the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment and according to the assessment of the legal profession, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires the enforcement of state authority by dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial. This is dictated by the introductory provisions of the normative part of the Constitution on the democracy of the State. In short, power must be shared and balanced. It was just by dividing power that the founder tried to achieve this way when he wrote the constitution. For the fact that power is divided and balanced will prevent the possibility of abuse of power. The fact is, too many times today we have witnessed abuse of power. Unfortunately, it is true that, at least as far as we follow from the events since 1992, the founder was convinced that the legislators would be wise enough to know how to read the constitution in the introductory terms - that is, the division of power. As it turned out, this National Assembly and the previous National Assembly are not wise enough to understand the content and the request of the founder of the basic text of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative function in the Republic of Slovenia is carried out by a national assembly composed of representatives of all people. The speech by the representative of the Slovenian People's Party went on in the sense that our task is to provide and exercise solely local interests. The fact is that according to Slovenian legislation and constitutional regulation, the representation of local interests, i.e. the municipality, is abandoned by the Constitution and guaranteed by the composition and powers of the State Council. That is why we have so-called alternative decisions with us; that the representatives of local communities are in the state world. The principle of the division of power, according to our assessment, requires a precise division of powers between the legislative and executive branches of authority. The Constitution also provides for functional independence. And there is no functional independence between the mayor and the MP or legislative and executive function at this time. And the purpose of the Slovenian National Party is to put an end to this practice. The fact is that local communities are also part of the executive power. And as long as you are honourable Members and Members of Parliament do not want to admit it, the use of the principle of the division of power will hang over us for so long. In other words: there will be no division of power, but also power in the field of the executive and legislative branches of power. However, the fact that it is already connected to the executive branch of power is also seen from the latest developments. According to our assessment, of course, the local community is part of the enforcement system, because, like the government and the direct state, they carry out their tasks, not only local regulations, but also state laws and laws. And there's a basic diction in here also for those who don't want to admit that local communities belong under the executive branch of power. According to our assessment, in the case of the simultaneous exercise of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, there is an absurd situation in which mayors make their own rules. This is contrary to the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. And the fact is, if we come from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or from the current functioning of this National Assembly, only two can prove to be. First, according to the People's Party, there is no need for the State Council, because if the National Assembly is here [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] intended to carry out the tasks of the local community, then we must not have a state council. [[...]] The Slovenian national party suggested this, but you were against it. When we choose the only other option as a solution, as a solution, i.e. the incompatibilities of performing the mayoral function - you are against again. So, what should a Member, a parliamentary group, do in this national assembly to ensure or enforce the Constitution in the manner in which the Constitution is intended? I estimate that today, too, the Constitution is no longer the act that it should be. Unfortunately, you play the Constitution too often. Of course, the Constitution should be that fundamental act that would offer both the protection of the rest of the legislation and, of course, the protection of all of us when we are looking for the rule of law. As a result, laws and constitutions are explained and written only because of the current need. At this point or so far, there should be a separate executive authority and a separate parliamentary function from the mayoral function. In the National Party we offer you this solution, just to prevent corruption or irregularities, and of course the decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you. These were the views of the members of the groups and also the applicant's introductory explanation. We will decide on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 6 p.m. and 30 minutes. I'm breaking this agenda. At 3 p.m. and 20 minutes, we will continue our work at 3 p.m. Until then, a short break. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u127	We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed trade law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Janez Petty Officer. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to calm down on the right so that we can continue our work. In our midst, I welcome Janez Trček, State Secretary in the Ministry of Economy. And I give the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u128	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Changes to the trade law. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, more than a year ago, to regulate the opening time of trade and to correct the current unconstitutional legal text. The deadline then expired last year, but not the government, nor the ruling coalition prepared a legal text, a new law that would remedy such a situation. In Novi Slovenije we prepared the text and then also introduced the law, which also went into the adoption process. The inactive role of the Ministry of Economy, which has simply shifted its role to social partners, has not led to a solution and cannot be achieved. The social partners didn't agree. First of all, not because of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia, which was not prepared to take such a decision, which would be consistent with the interests of traders, sellers and consumers. He prefers to listen mainly to two or three traders, wholesalers who have actually become its conductors. She became a captive of Uligarchs and parastatal creation. With the current situation they are not satisfied, nor are the other traders, because the will of two or three of their competitors forced them into unnecessary opening of trade on Sundays and holidays, resulting in higher costs that ultimately passed on to us by the buyers. The current disorder in Slovenia does no good to anyone. We do not want citizens to become servants of merchants, merchants, and therefore we propose such arrangements that will harmonise all three parties, employers for a decent market opportunity, to rationalise costs, buyers with adequate accessibility, but do not buy and employees, in particular sellers, with the right to rest, dignity, if not already justified family life. In Slovenia we now have the most unregulated situation in our neighbourhood, even in neighbouring countries, they have actively joined in regulating opening time. Unfortunately, the legislature and the Constitutional Court did not carry out their tasks as they should at the time when the union proposed a referendum. With continued manoeuvres, they challenged the proposal of trade unions which had submitted a referendum question and therefore the referendum issue ended with a denunciation. Let's be clear. In particular, due to the inactive role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the failure of the social partners to harmonise on minimum points, the unions were forced to raise this issue. The referendum was therefore unnecessary, but it was necessary. And finally we came up with the same solution as at the beginning that we could have had a year ago, of course if the will were in this national assembly. And even more options would be available, but now we are bound by the referendum will, because we are obliged to comply with the decision made by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of the number of participants in the referendum, so that no one can relativise in any way. That is why opening times in tourist areas and the like, if they were to please them, cannot be arranged. The legal text is now slightly different from what we proposed in New Slovenia. We have advocated that open trade may be a certain number of weeks and holidays regardless of the sales range and regardless of size, which is an easier and simpler solution and is similar to other countries in the neighbourhood and most European countries. Unfortunately, the legal text, such as that, because of the complications that have taken place on the Committee on the Economy, is not so coordinated that it is quite consistent with the referendum will, nor is it the text of the law that we have adopted. I therefore expect the submission of the harmonisation amendments, which you will also support by Members and Members, otherwise the legislative text is useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! You have before you a very detailed and thorough report on the consideration of the draft law of the group of Members with the first-signed mags. Janez Petty Officer. I will therefore limit myself to some questions in this presentation. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law for the first time at its 39th meeting, on 26.6.2003. In view of the initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum, he then adopted a decision to postpone the consideration of the bill and wait for the outcome of the referendum, which was also agreed by the motions for a referendum. That's what happened. In view of the fact that the content of the referendum decision differed, in some points, from the content of the proposed law, which was also pointed out by the legislative and legal services, I called on the competent or interested bodies or entities to prepare the committee as best as possible and, of course, the assembly in writing already 25.9. The referendum called for opinions or opinions on any open questions relating to the law and outcome of the referendum. The Committee was thus informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Trade Trade Union of Slovenia, the Trade Association of the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Union of Slovenia, the Confederation of Trade Unions 90. At its 44th meeting, on 13 January this year, the Committee continued its discussion and decision on the proposal for a law. Before that, the Committee was informed of the amendment by the Ambassador of Magi. Mr Petty Officer, proposals for amendments to the Committee on the Economy presented by Mr Mag on behalf of the Group of Members at the meeting. Blaž Kavčič, as well as proposals for amendments to the same articles which were forwarded to the committee at the beginning of the meeting by the trade union. I would also like to point out that one amendment proposed as an amendment to the Committee was also proposed by the trade association with regard to the enforcement of the law. At the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law or amendment by a fellow Member, Comrade Drobnič, and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 6 relating to a sub-legislative act on vital life items shall be forwarded. After a lengthy discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Article 1 for a new Article 1a, a sub-legislative act, and to Article 2 which is very important, this is the deadline for the implementation or application of the law, proposal 15.9.2004, which also follows the legal deadline for the implementation of the referendum expressed will and then the amendment of the editorial nature to the title. On the basis of the amendments adopted, a further proposal is prepared for the law that you have before you. Let me finally say something that is very important. Following the meeting of the Committee, the Legal and Legislative Service announced an additional opinion on the third reading of the proposal for a law due to a finding of non-compliance, first of all, in Article 1 related to the amendment of Article 17 of the Act - provision of the second paragraph. Secondly, in Article 19, concerning the powers or measures of inspection. And thirdly, in Article 22 of the sanctions or offences. On the basis of such an opinion, I foresee that we will receive it, a harmonisation amendment to the said Articles will be required. This will be possible and the conditions for the consideration and adoption of the law will be given this Thursday. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much, chairman of the board. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. First of all, the New Slovenia Group has the word mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u132	In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the law because it eliminates the unconstitutional situation and because we are obliged to do the referendum will, although we do not agree with all the solutions. We certainly do not agree with the deadline for entry into force as well as with some other things, but, however, it is better than it is in any way. Our rule is that opening times are regulated to ensure consistency between the interests of owners, sellers and consumers or consumers. It is clear that in the first text, about a year and a half ago, two or three traders had a key role, which also had power at the Chamber of Commerce. In this regard, it is important to ask seriously about the place of the Chamber of Economics, its compulsory association and, at the same time, the role of the social partner. As long as we have compulsory association or membership in our country, of course this is not consistent in terms of the status of social partnership. Then it is necessary to find someone else who, on the basis of freedom, will become equal to the social partnership. In New Slovenia we also argue that trade unions cannot assume such responsibility in terms of opening trade times. In this case, however, it is because all the activities and competences of those who should have prepared the appropriate text in the first place have been abandoned. Access to autonomous opening rights, and in particular to official hours, of course is not a city of trade unions. Trade unions are mainly tariffs, working conditions and the like. Some traders see on Sundays and holidays an opportunity to break down small traders who cannot ensure adequate and rational deployment of the workforce. Every merchant knows that the one who first instituted the opening on Sundays and holidays will win, but in time the others will follow him. Finally, it turns out that, at the time of the second relatively equal purchasing power of the population, trade costs increase due to the higher labour force and the material costs that are being spent in these days, and eventually, through higher prices, translate into buyers. In Novi Slovenija we advocate a six-day worker or opening time with exceptions, neutral exceptions, which must be clearly defined in order to ensure those minimum needs of consumers and that this is still sustainable with employees and also the interests of traders. We advocate arrangements similar to those in other countries, particularly the Central European countries. Restrictions are necessary and reasonable for reasons of public interest. If France can have a controlled opening time similar to us, or Germany even more rigorously, including Munich, which is in Germany, it can have a good time of all tourist arrivals. Then Slovenia can similarly regulate opening time and ensure that consumer needs are met and, of course, on the other hand, for the social and employment security of employees. It is important that we are in line with opening time with other European countries, especially now that we are entering between them and when the barriers, the borders, will fall and the space will become united. The need for harmonised opening times will also arise after greater compliance. Therefore, in Europe, these liberalistic ways that we have had do not consider us to be some mature innovators. In New Slovenia, we therefore do not agree with such a deadline for the full implementation of the law, although we are aware that it takes some time to redevelop certain trades and prepare a new regulation. This could be arranged in at least three months. It is unacceptable that it took almost two years to implement a constitutional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law that will legislate at the referendum the will of voters and voters, as created by the Committee on the Economy, with the participation of all affected groups, of course, with the addition of the missing paragraphs. As a customer, we have always supported negotiations between workers and employers on the opening time of trade, which should also allow the legal regulation of opening time for workers in trade to work and live. We expected, however, an agreement to be reached between trade unions and employers to meet the expectations of employees, traders and consumers and local communities on the exceptions that are necessary due to the different conditions for their development, without a referendum. Unfortunately, the negotiations did not come out positively and we had a referendum where voters and voters, who are also consumers, made clear their willingness to limit the opening time of shops, which we must pour into law. Surely there are no optimal solutions that would satisfy all the different interests that have been expressed so far in many debates on the law and the referendum itself, but in the United List of Social Democrats we believe that the proposed solution is a possible way to legalise the freedom expressed in the referendum. The question is whether this legal will will also be a long-term solution to the issues that make us a foothold referendum. The future will probably also require the search for better solutions, which will also confirm life. In the United List of Social Democrats, we considered that the concept of on-call stores would be better, as it would enable the interests of employees and also the needs of consumers on the basis of possible and necessary exceptions to life. For the United List of Social Democrats, the issue of working time for trade was, first and foremost, a question of labour rights and not the Christian tradition of a week off, as many have tried to show the basic problem of openness or the closure of trade on Sundays. If, on the one hand, it is the interest of capital after the greatest possible profit and possibly also of consumers on permanent access to the necessary goods without any restriction, on the other hand, it is the rights of workers to normal and healthy work and rest. It is a question of the rights of workers which Europe's social economy has built over the centuries and has established as acceptable standards of social life. We have estimated that it is a question of whether, on behalf of entrepreneurial freedom, we should leave a complete liberal concept of development, because the interests of stronger capital are completely overpowered by the interests of employees and by all the social development interests of society. For the United List of Social Democrats, such a development model is not acceptable to allow for the full dominance of the interests of capital and property, irrespective of other public interests. Apparently, elsewhere in Europe, they are thinking about these issues when they regulate the operating hours of trade, since virtually all Western European countries are regulating the opening times of trade with specific laws or by means of sub-legal acts. Countries in which a free market economic initiative has been in operation for centuries clearly limit the working time of trade for reasons of public benefit, without prejudice to whether they interfere with the freedom of entrepreneurship. In addition, it is true that most European countries also have different exceptions to allow individual types of shops or municipalities or regions to make greater decisions on the opening time of shops in their area to individual business operators, since it is not possible to argue that the problems of the operation of trade in narrow urban cores are not different from those of the operation of trade in demography-prone rural areas. The conversion of trade in tourist areas, where the number of buyers is substantially increasing in seasons, is likely to require different regulation of trade operations than in areas where the number of buyers is approximately constant throughout the year. It is also appropriate to regulate operating time in individual periods of the year, such as the pre-new time or time of major fairs or celebrations, in different regions, as normally regulated in the year, which will also allow for a new regime. Let me finish. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, despite the belief that the future will also bring us new reflections on the regulation of the operating time of trade, we will support the proposed law because we are convinced that the will expressed in the referendum is proper law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be given by a colleague of France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We wouldn't have had a referendum, we wouldn't have been dealing with the trade law for so long if it was the right time, years ago, when this speech was discussed, the country had a little more hearing for the worker, for the sellers. At that time, the Ministry of the Economy or the government put its hands away and told employers and workers to agree. You know what these arrangements look like today, what a subordinate position a worker has to agree to if he wants to keep his job at all times. Of course, at the time, employers, shopkeepers, argued very well that trade should be open on Fridays and holidays, from morning to evening, saying, firstly, there was a great deal of concern for the consumer, one of which was the service itself. Consumers want it that way, we are in the service of the consumer and so on, and they have even compared trade with emergency health care, with police, firefighters, that is, with those services that are certainly urgent and must run day and night. Then, also by consumers, there was some argument, if, yes, we want, we hang out in stores, we have a nice time, although we don't go on trips, in nature, we don't hang out at home, but in stores and we want to have open shops. Here, too, this argument has been shown as a hair drawn, not to say consumer selfishness. But it is certainly necessary to say this: a free economic initiative, yes, but to what extent. But the law on working conditions also regulates these things, regulates a free economic initiative and says 40 hours a week. And this is not left to dialogue and agreement between the owner of the store or factory and the worker. The same is true of many other rights. To forget a little too much about the worker, about the shopkeepers, show the latest events in the Road, Glass and the like, where we go capitalism in the 19th century. It was forgotten about the shopkeeper's protection. It was forgotten that the argument was to protect a week, a day's rest, a civil value, a value as valuable as it is common. Imagine having one on Fridays, every Friday off days, someone else on Sundays, a wife on Mondays, etc. A total day off is a value. We must not neglect this value, nor should we go so liberally towards the economy. We will, of course, support this law for substantive reasons, for reasons such as the referendum, so that people have made up their minds. We expect that the amendments, or the harmonisation amendments, which have been announced, will complement this decision or the law to the extent that it is truly written in such a way as to be feasible on the one hand and, on the other hand, to protect the worker, the seller and our civil value, this is a day off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you. Mag. Blaž Kavčič has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u138	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The preliminary legislative referendum was held on 21 September in connection with the proposed legislative text. The National Assembly is therefore bound by the outcome of this referendum and must adopt a decision to implement the referendum within one year of the implementation of the previous referendum at the latest. This means that the law must address the issue of the operating time of the shops, in accordance with the referendum decision. That is why we will also support this law in the Liberal Democracy Club, or we will not oppose it, even though we are convinced that the law currently in force in this area is a good law, since it actually allows for the balanced functioning of all stakeholders. Where the buyers’ interest is, in fact, the buyers vote daily or every Sunday so far whether they want to keep the store open or not. Workers, however, are involved in deciding whether or not to open up individual trade by means of a codecision mechanism on whether or not trade will be able to operate in less favourable working hours. The referendum outcome is what it is. While it is important to analyse that this referendum was adopted with relatively poor participation, only about a quarter of Slovenian voters decided to come to this referendum and express their will. Of course, there can be different guesses as to why. They were probably mostly convinced that this was an issue that someone else had to settle for them outside the referendum. This means that the mandatory closure of trades was actively decided on Sundays less than 16% of electoral beneficiaries or about 12% of Slovenians. That's a relatively bad trip. A poor traveller to this law, which we honestly think is a bad marriage, because it is going in the opposite direction, such as the current European trends - Europe, because of the budgetary problems most present in France, Germany, is thinking about how to achieve the situation that more employees would work more hours a week and thus help to gradually reduce the development backlog that Europe has for its competitors, the United States of America. Here, when we talk about the work of employees in trade, however, we need to stress once again the significant difference between what is a worker, a 40-hour worker dealing with a personal level, and what is the larger or smaller number of working days of individual trade. What will happen if this law is brought to life will be that the number of hours of work will be reduced and consequently fewer employees will be needed to do this work. With this law, we will not be able to avoid the fact that we will cause inequality of operators on the market and somehow follow a philosophy that does not exactly share. This philosophy, however, is that no matter how many days a week the shops are open because the purchasing fund, the purchasing power of the population is given. This is like listening to some real-socialist theory and all together actively forgetting modern, professional, marketing and sales science, which is still dealing with the need to offer the goods more favourable, more flexible and for the buyer in a more acceptable way. As we say, despite these arguments, we will do our job by supporting or not objecting to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u140	Your Honors are here! On 21 September 2003, another referendum took place in our country. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party, one of those referendums, which reflected the ignorance of the Slovenian government on the one hand and, of course, the ignorance of the National Assembly to various aspects and interests in our society. The referendums have thus become the weapons of a particular segment of people or the weapons of certain Members to try to side with them and to enforce their own will to gain the will of citizens. It is logical that smaller groups of people participate in individual referendums. Of course, a fundamental error is not in citizens and citizens, but mainly within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not prepared to understand the need for a wider consensus in our society. In the national party, we estimate that the government has committed an original sin at a time when it has allowed the part controlled by capital or to face the conflict of the social unit and capital notes and to leave them in an agreement against each other. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should have the wisdom to avoid a referendum in the moments leading up to the referendum in order to write a law that is intended for a wide or wide range of people. In those moments, during the pre-referendum period, we all knew or could be sure of the will of citizens and citizens. In the national party, we will support the proposal for a trade law. We fear, however, that only the structure or content of the law will be changed and that it does not reflect the fact or reflect the exact outcome of the referendum. That is why, of course, we will also follow in the national party the amendments and additions sent to the procedure by Mr Drobnič in the form of an amendment. By doing so, we will try to provide or meet the content and expectations that people have decided at the referendum. Again, in today's debate, we stress that there is no mistake of citizens and citizens, which is often reflected too often and understands meaningfully from the words spoken by the representatives of the Liberal Democracy for Low Participation in the Referendum. The error is solely enforceable as legislative branches of government because they are not prepared to take into account the desire of individual segments in our society. The fact is that the number of referendums is exceptional in this mandate. They are all the reason for the arrogance of the government majority or government parties. I don't want this to sound like another one of those beliefs and finger readings, you know, it's your fault, and I don't. When you deserve it, it is only right that you should be shown with your finger. When a person listens to or is probably watching today's debate, he gets the feeling that somehow all of us in the pre-referendum period have been defending, in sayings, of course, the social note, or defending workers and workers, and that there was no one who was supposed to be publicly or through a committee or a plenary meeting defending the interests of capital. At least those of you who have, overcome so much honesty, admit that you were the vast majority of those who, at that time in writing, defended the interest of capital and thereby caused the basic content of the law, which was inappropriate for further consideration, which citizens and citizens disagreed with, and which, according to our assessment, came solely from the interests of capital, which for a long time has not been foreign to both government and government parties, but according to our assessment, is not only a domitive, but also their leadership. We will support the bill in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u141	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia will be presented by Igor Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, in its introduction, we reiterate that the key problem with the complications of Sunday work is that there has been no agreement between employers and trade unions on the way that is systematically envisaged to deal with similar issues. We believe that there was no need for a referendum on this subject, which is certainly supported by the Government, which is poorly carrying out the tasks of mediators between the social partners in this mandate. It is true that employers, with a proposal for a 75% increase in wages for Sunday's work, came a little later. However, it is also true that union representatives have stubbornly beaten the constitution of the referendum and the balls did not calm down when the time was right. We are now facing a rather absurd situation where many employees in commercial activities would also like to work on Sundays, as they would be well paid for it, but the decision taken at the referendum does not permit this to a large extent. What is now different from what was before is that, after the referendum will has been established, we can also expect forgiveness, which will encourage the reorganisation of jobs and working hours. Of course, union representatives will keep their jobs, and it will be interesting to see how zealous, successful and taken, and with what arguments, they will now defend those employees who will become a working crowd and will eventually turn them into dry numbers for the unemployed who will not only be home on Sundays but also all the other days of the week. In the invitation to a referendum question, we also drew attention to the misunderstanding of the referendum issue in the Party of Young Slovenia. This is also evident now that we Members of the referendum will have to turn into a law. In the SMS, we will respect the referendum will due to a vague referendum issue and a number of questions arise. The first is for sure what are vital life items for which there is no clear definition. Each voter probably imagines what these articles mean to him, whether they are only food products or also cosmetics, textiles, footwear, technical products, products found on the shelves of large shopping centres. If you open ten weeks a year, it's hard to imagine how they're going to limit the purchase of other non-essential life items. We came into a situation when we went to the referendum, and now we find that we didn't know exactly what we were voting on. We support the changes in the part that talks about the size of petrol services that will be able to operate on Sundays: By increasing from 80 to 150 square metres, we will capture all the services and save consumers at least the search for on-call pumps if they have to look for open shops. How complex and vague the referendum issue was, it is also evident from the latest complication. None of the amendments tabled satisfactorily transformed the referendum will into a legal provision, so a new amendment had to be drafted on the committee. Despite the wishes of the members of the committee, the law is now somewhat absurd, and trades with so-called undefined or poorly defined essential necessities of living can only be opened ten weeks a year, and others, with no urgency, can be opened all week round. Since this certainly was not the purpose of the law, even less of a referendum, we are now facing a bizarre situation when we have a marriage before us that will not involve the referendum will, but will turn the referendum freely even to the head. However, since the law will not enter into force until September, it is reasonable to support it and amend it later in due course with an amendment in a form consistent with the will of the people expressed in the referendum. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the draft law, which does not mean that we fully agree with the content of such a law or, in any way, take responsibility for it, but that, in order to achieve the will of the electorate as soon as possible, we will allow the national assembly to do so within the prescribed time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you. And the position of the Slovenian People's Party. And a word to Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending the trade law, because it is time for the agony associated with the purpose of this law to end, namely, that trade in essential necessities of life or better said trade in food is open only a few weeks a year, and that it is already the end of a kind of diversion that does not have borders. It would only make sense for us to agree on this issue in a genuine partnership manner, which is, of course, the principle which prevails in the European Union, of course, for the mutual benefit of the employer and the employees. However, since employers were not more flexible as a stronger partner and were not prepared to sacrifice their free time on Sundays to work and thus improve their monthly salary, which is certainly not particularly large, to bring about a more sensitive increase in pay for this work, and since the government, the Ministry of Economy specifically, was not prepared to understand the difficulties of workers employed in trade more seriously and with more active thinking and proposals, the people at the referendums decided that it was right. We will be willing to respect this in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and we will support the law, and this will also affect the fact that only because of the great profits of some major traffickers, the divorces that require commercial workers to work on Sundays are abolished. We are convinced that this has nothing to do with the content of a free economic initiative. However, we have also expressed this in the debate already initially on the proposal of the law, and in certain circumstances, for example, the seasonal tourist centres will certainly have a negative impact. On this occasion, however, we ask ourselves why, on the example of merchants, at least every other Saturday, not Sunday, administrative units have arranged for consumers, citizens who are every day percentage of their home because of a wide variety of services, to settle ongoing administrative matters that virtually cannot be handled from Monday to Friday without work being absent. This link of consumers is not concerned at all; nothing is felt by the call to comment on such an approach, at least to advocates of opening shops on Sunday. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider it bad that the amendment of the draft law to the amended draft law was somehow understood or/or occurred as irrelevant due to the late submission, despite the fact that the timely publication in Lotus Notes was somehow the first article to appear in the draft law unconsistent. We believe that this can be resolved in accordance with the current rules of procedure with the harmonisation amendment. We will support the law, primarily because of labour rights, if I so understand them, secondly to point out that appetite after a steady profit is an appetite that must also have a limit, and finally because of Christian values, which some colleagues see in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we have heard about how we will find a solution, there is no way to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 29.1.2004, following the end of the last item of the agenda under the voting point. This concludes this agenda item. At 4:10 p.m., we will move on to the next item of the agenda, which is on the proposal of the law on amendments and amendments to the trade law. Until then, a short break. Thank you. [[The meeting was suspended at 4:07 p.m. and resumed at 4:10 p.m.]] I ask the government representatives to come to the big debate room. First, she will receive the word of the government, then the representative of the competent working body and of the parliamentary group in kind, as reported. We will conclude the point before the vote tonight by discussing the amendment proposal to Article 8 of the proposed craft law. Colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RURAL LAW tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I welcome the Minister of Economy, Dr. Theo Petrin, with my coworkers. The Minister will have a brief explanation of the bill's proposal, and then the chairman of the committee, Comrade Horvat, please the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In my introductory presentation of the amendments and the addition of the craft law, I will limit myself only to those changes which significantly affect the removal of obstacles to this craft activity and also to the changes resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposal for amendments to the trade law partially eliminates the definitions of trade-related and trade-related activities so far, in particular in terms of greater transparency and differentiation between the conditions to be met by independent entrepreneurs and companies in order to carry out trade-related or craft-related activities. This also fulfils the important objectives and principles of the Anti-Burocratic Programme as it removes a variety of additional obstacles and conditions for carrying out such activities. This means that, in accordance with the amendments to the law, they will be able to start an activity on the basis of registration in the trade register. This simplifies some administrative procedures as entrepreneurs, individuals, businesses will no longer need a trade permit to carry out such activities. Amendments to the current regime of qualification and other conditions for the conduct of trades and trades of similar activities are necessary in terms of the decommissioning of the crafts sector and therefore only the qualification requirement for the performance of crafts activities: master's title, or at least an appropriate higher professional education, or the conditions applicable in the European Union, is maintained. The 1999 Directive of the European Community establishing a mechanism for the recognition of qualifications for professional activities laid down in the Directives of liberalisation and similar measures, as well as the completion of the general system for the recognition of qualifications, does not know the terms of the master's title, nor does it know the conditions with regard to the level of education. In order not to create different conditions for domestic natural and legal persons wishing to obtain a trade permit for the exercise of a trade activity, in the light of the natural and legal persons of the European Community, we support the amendment by which that provision is made meaningfully into amendments to the craft law. However, the rules on the procedure for granting a trade permit and on the trade register governing the procedure for obtaining a trade permit shall be laid down in Article 14 of the Law also in the rules and procedure whereby the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall verify compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 8(2) of the amendments to the trade law. All other existing conditions defined in the Regulations shall be fully eliminated. In addition, reduced entry conditions are laid down for access to the management of the master's examination, in particular with a view to allowing future candidates greater freedom in creating their professional careers and thus facilitating the entry into the exercise of their craftsmanship. Amendments to the trade law in the work laying down the organisation of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the regional chambers of commerce, their bodies, the representativeness of the members of those bodies, the provision on financing, with particular emphasis on membership and control over the use of funds, are necessary as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the draft law establishes a procedure for the assessment and recovery of membership, lays down the basis and criteria for determining the amount of membership and provides for the control of the State over its determination, and also provides for the possibility that all interested members may influence the views adopted by the Chamber. The amendments define the bodies of the Chamber and their competences, stressing in particular that the representation of all members is reflected in the Assembly as the highest management body composed of representatives, members of regional chambers of commerce, all professional sections and cooperative groups. It also identified the authorities of the Regional Chamber of Commerce and identified the tasks of the Regional Chambers of Commerce, which have not been defined in the law so far. More clearly, the sources of funding of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are defined and the basis and criteria for determining membership are laid down, and the law specified which activities of the Chamber are financed by membership. It is equally appropriate to arrange funding for the regional chambers of commerce. The draft law also lays down the control of the state over the determination of membership by determining that the control over the use of membership funds is exercised by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Transitional provisions are necessary in order to determine the size of companies engaged in trades of similar activities. It is also necessary to set a time limit after which a master's title will have to be used for a crafts permit. However, the special period and procedure is defined due to the change in the definition of trades of similar activities and thus the transition of members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and vice versa during the prescribed three-year period. By way of an explicit statement, the entities may remain in the Chamber of Members. These were the main points related to the changes I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a competent working body. The chairman of the committee, Comrade Ferry Horvat, will present the report. Please, Mr President of the Committee, and then we will hear the views of the members of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Under-Secretary of State, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members! The Committee on the Economy, as its parent working body, considered the proposal for a law submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly. This consideration was held at the 44th meeting, on 13 January of this year. At the meeting, or better said, representatives of the government were present with the Minister in charge, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The opinions and materials are given in the report, so I hope you won't mind, because I won't read them. The Committee has followed the main objectives of preparing and adopting the proposal for a law presented by the Minister in particular the following: to harmonise the law with the Constitutional Court decision on the establishment of the basis of membership and the activities financed by it; to further liberalise or facilitate the entry of new entities into the activity; to define more clearly the activities of trades and trades of similar activities and to adapt solutions to the rules of the European Union, in particular as regards qualifications. The Committee did not adopt the amendment to Article 22, as it considered it to be a proposal [[This is a voluntary membership proposal.]] such nature as to interfere with the very foundations of the assembly system, which was not the purpose of this law. In preparing the bill and preparing for the hearing in the National Assembly, I would like to stress, according to my assessment, the positive fact that good cooperation between the Government as a proponent, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Sections of the National Assembly has facilitated and, I am sure, also improved the quality of the preparation or work of the Committee and the preparation of the proposal for today's hearing. I propose that you accept the supplementary proposal together with the amendment tabled by the group of four groups, with the addition you received on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the New Slovenia Group. The position will be explained by a fellow magician. Janez Petty Officer. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear government representatives and others. In the New Slovenia Group, we stand by and support some of the changes that have been made in these amendments to the trade law. Slovenian craft has a centuries-long tradition that has marked all times, including this period after World War II, when we had a socialist system, although it was under great pressure at that time. After the break with the previous system, it was precisely a business activity and small entrepreneurship that filled the entrepreneurship niche of small producers and strongly contributed to the successful restructuring of certain activities in our country. However, we can certainly say that the trend of reducing employment and reducing the enforcement of this sector continues. Various attempts have been made to prevent this or to improve the situation, but the situation in our country is that way. And what is the most difficult thing about craftsmen? The payment non-discipline initiated by the State on its own or which is not maintained, and this in particular has a negative impact on the last one in the production chain, which is usually a craftsman or a small entrepreneur. The preference of monopolies created by political elites for themselves, which do not allow small producers to obtain public contracts, businesses, poor lending conditions for small entrepreneurs and excessive red tape. Two or three of these proposals reduce the law, which is commendable, and everything else remains the same. There's a modern choir assembly in our country. In all areas, we have welcomed the chambers as a way of bringing people together by professionalism, by profession and by many others, which should contribute to the development of such activities. Unfortunately, compulsory mergers can also become a bar of development. What can we say about the Chamber of Commerce? In principle, we do not object to the fact that this is also a compulsory merger, but then we must accept all the consequences, including negative ones, of such integration. The text reads, diction, the Chamber performs a basic choral task, that is to represent membership against the authorities. How, therefore, should membership be represented against the State when it comes to compulsory association, for compulsory membership, which in this way becomes a membership tax, the Chamber shall be transformed into a para-national institution, in particular because it exercises certain public powers. This is embarrassing. This is embarrassing. And you should think about it. In our opinion, by mandatory assembly, the Chamber loses its status as a genuine negotiator in social bargaining. However, without any difficulty, it would be compatible to exercise public powers. By decommitment, it could become a real negotiator, thereby establishing another mechanism to control and improve the quality of functioning of the offices of the Chamber and the staff of the Chamber, since they would be more closely involved in the supervision and also in the criticism of membership. We are therefore particularly interested in what will be done in order to achieve the growth of the crafts sector, not just moving from economic to craftsmanship, increasing the number of employees, equality of market positions, enforcement of knowledge and products, knowledge in terms of greater competitiveness and added value. This law gives some minimum repairs. The amendment to Article 8 will be supported because it establishes a guarantee mechanism [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] also those who do not have mastery or professional qualifications. This ensures a greater possibility of passing, greater potential for development of crafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please, Comrade Pohorec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State and co-worker! The DeSUS Group will, of course, support the proposal for amendments and the completion of the trade law. The amendments and additions to the trade law have resulted from some harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union and, of course, comparability with other countries in this area. It is about simplifying matters and clearer concepts of what a craft is, what a craft is, what a similar activity is, whose activities are not considered to be crafts or crafts alike. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the development of amendments and additions. They also agree with the amendments, which means that it has cooperated both professionally and in practice. The law lays down the powers of the government in this area, the powers of the Ministry responsible for crafts and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as other state bodies which have something to do with what to decide, such as registration, monitoring of activities and so on. An important novelty is in a simpler and more European comparable way of obtaining a trade permit, the basis of which is the re-respected title of master, as well as other conditions for performing craftsmanship, until this master address becomes more general practice. The news is also more comparable to the conditions for obtaining a master's exam. The law further establishes the status of the Chamber of Commerce, the composition of the bodies of the Chamber and the powers and membership in the Chamber of Commerce and District Chambers, as well as the membership and purpose of this membership. We therefore believe that the law is positive, in terms of simplifying and facilitating the establishment of crafts as important activities of the Slovenian economy, harmonising with the legislation of other countries of the European Union, with the aim of allowing more citizens to establish trade, thus allowing self-employment and, finally, offering more jobs to our people. The amendments and additions to the trade law will be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by a colleague of mags. A visor. First of all, colleague Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the craft law in the UK Group of Social Democrats, but it does enable the development of activities that complement other activities and, above all, enhances the competitiveness of the craftsmanship of the economy by removing administrative obstacles through this law. Finally, the importance of the assembly organisation is extremely important, especially if the collection of membership and later the coverage of the obligations within the chamber of this membership is very clearly defined. So these are the solutions that are certainly the product of the long-standing presence of crafts and the development of crafts in Slovenia. In particular, the turnover developed in the 1980s when it became an important economic sector that employed workers, mobilised private capital and offered many products and services. It is also important to trade in the preservation of natural tradition, especially when this trade relates to domestic and artistic trade. The special economic situation of the craft certainly led to the self-organisation of the craft, first on a voluntary interest link, and later to the integration of the Chamber on the basis of compulsory membership. All of these are very difficult moves and decisions within the organisation itself and it is important that the rules of the game in the law are then very precisely defined. The purpose of this law also, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, is to very precisely define the system of collection of membership, monitoring of this collection and in particular the amount of membership and the tasks which will be financed on the basis of this within the Chamber. The Chamber has certainly made a trade for an even more important economic operator, because through the assembly organisation the trade has become an important economic partner who is trying to exercise his interests against the government and the measures we are trying to design in organising the economy. Especially important solutions in this law are those solutions and principles that follow the Anti-Birocratic Programme, as a number of different additional obstacles and conditions for the execution of the craft are being removed. And, of course, this is what it means to turn Slovenia into the European Union under the same conditions, so that it can exercise its knowledge also in a competitive fight with other craftsmen, and this is what we consider to be one of the greatest acquisitions of this law and therefore also with the amendment that has been tabled, we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I also welcome the Minister and the representative of the government and, of course, you, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support all measures that reduce bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of some economic initiative of our citizens, and therefore we support this part of the amendment to the trade law, which is so-called. Of course, the law changes the conditions for obtaining a trade permit and lays down conditions that go in the direction of a more difficult and restrictive approach. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose such an approach because we believe that conditionality on the acquisition of craftsmanship is not an appropriate approach. We are also some kind of 'unicum' in the European space with the required master name. The legislator should follow the needs of life and also strive to enable the greatest possible economic initiative of his citizens, including in this area. We also believe that the law does not adequately regulate the situation of persons who achieve the standards of professional skills required for the exercise of craftsmanship, in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on National Professional Qualifications, but who do not meet the condition of a self-employed person or business as set out in the amendment. In short, the conditions for obtaining a trade permit, as well as the amendment, concentrate on education, but if there is no education, it allows exemptions, but they are conditional on a self-employed person or an employee. I believe, as well as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that only the knowledge and skills necessary to carry out the craftsmanship are those which must be merciable to whether or not someone can be a craftsman, in particular in certain activities where formal education has nothing to do with the exercise of this craftsmanship. Let me mention just one of the cases, that's smithy. I myself know an exceptional craftsman in the field of craftsmanship who has no formal education and achieves the highest quality products. And look at the example that this master, who has no formal education and is currently employed in Germany, wants to come home, open up to us a trade, won't be able to, because he won't meet any condition, he doesn't have a formal education. When he comes to Slovenia, he is not an independent entrepreneur, nor is he an economic worker, and wants to continue his work, under this law and after this amendment of the law, he will not be able to do so, despite the maximum knowledge, skills necessary to carry out this profession. Instead of following the needs of our citizens and allowing self-employment for those with knowledge who do not have formal education, we unfortunately go against this law and, of course, allow those who are either self-employed or business workers. Let me also mention the case, the case of life, we encounter it every day, for example, a double-player who is employed either in a company or with some independent entrepreneur who has been doing this for 20 years, wants to open a trade on this basis, will not be able to cover the trade if, of course, the sky has formal education, because such are among the so-called "malars" quite a lot. Why can't he, because of course he won't meet any of these conditions? Normally, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the Chamber of Commerce is a closed-circuit chamber in order not to allow competition to spread in its own kind, this is perfectly normal, only I think that a legislator like us should follow here other national aspirations such as the free economic initiative, as many self-employed as possible, even among the less educated and, of course, the expansion of the cycle of activity. One more thing. In my opinion, the law will also be that because someone who does not meet these conditions will not be able to afford craftsmanship and trade, these conditions, linked to education and business or self-employment, will also lead to the growth of forestry. For those who fail to meet these conditions will likely find themselves in other better forms, which are harmful to the land; yet. I therefore hope that there will also be opportunities in the third reading to upgrade the resolution of Article 8 which speaks of the acquisition of craftsmanship to persons who do not fulfil formal education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Colleague Maria Pozsonec. No! No! He's quitting? Comrade Kavčič, then it is your turn to present your position. I'm sorry I was wrong. No, my colleague Maria Possonec gave up, so it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. I was waiting for colleague Pozsonchev to do her presentation first. Dear Mr President, representatives of the government with the Minister in charge! This crafts law is, of course, the result of the very hard process of coordinating the various legitimate entities in our society. Probably the most intensive coordination between the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. In liberal democracy, of course, we do not pretend that all the questions were very idyllic and definitively closed. Of course, some will have to clear themselves in line with evolving circumstances in the future. Of course, there may also be questions within the Chamber of Commerce itself, because, of course, we take the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia as the legitimate and competent interlocutor, but of course there may be a small duality of views between directly craftsmen and among the Chamber of Commerce, but they are, as is said, those issues that may be useful in the further development of legislation in this area. However, we believe that, together with the proposed law, we are all taking one useful step forward. In part, the current arrangements for crafts and crafts of similar activities are being amended, in particular in terms of greater transparency. The trades of similar activities are identified in a new way, so that they are considered to be profitable activities carried out as the main activity traditionally linked to trade and carried out by independent entrepreneurs, or by companies belonging to small companies other than those engaged in trade, financial intermediation, real estate and advisory activities. We believe that it is positive that the law is aimed at decommissioning the craftsmanship of the economy. It is important that only the qualification requirement for the performance of the activity is maintained by the amendment, either by a master’s title or alternatively by the least appropriate higher professional education, and that all the other conditions so far are fully eliminated. It is, of course, worth noting that entry conditions are also being extended for access to the master examination and that at least secondary vocational education is sufficient. By doing so, we estimate that this allows individuals relatively much freedom to create their professional orientation, because the regulation has been stricter here and more. It seems important to us that, of course, this bill also solves the issue raised by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on membership and control over the use of funds. The amendments introduced by this law also define more precisely the bodies of the Chamber of Commerce and their competences. More transparent than so far are the sources of funding of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the established basis and criteria for determining membership. As for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, this issue is also addressed for the regional chambers of commerce. The draft law also defines the control of the state over the provision of membership fees by controlling the use of funds from membership of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to all the above-mentioned substantive refinements, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the trade law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Comrade Kavčič. He will now present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Then we will have a presentation and move on to the debate on the only amendment tabled. My friend Peca first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u160	Your Honors are here! In the bench, when my colleague Barovic and I listened to the debate or the views of other parliamentary groups, we came to a very interesting conclusion that the option, of course, is to have Members and Members of Parliament with different proposed materials. Because the fact is that it is almost impossible for us to have such conflicting views and that someone could speak so positively about the same marriage and someone so negative. And the fact is that this law, which is now before us, is the law on changes and additions to the craft law, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ensured that it is monitoring three objectives, for the first time greater transparency, for the second time compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision and for the third time the self-organization of the Chamber, according to our assessment, the law brings only two novelties or two innovations. And both of you, I stress, will both have a negative impact on the lives of craftsmen. The first novelty in the field of how to become a craftsman, by means of a proposal for a law, i.e. the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who advocate and enforce the necessity of the law, of course, have been severely restricted by the conditions of how someone can become a craftsman and how this activity can take place in our country's future. And on the other hand, if we said that you've sharpened the terms of how to become a craftsman, you've only continued with this law a second part, that's how to make the existence of a craftsman difficult in our country. In the Slovenian National Party, we proposed an amendment, a supplement for which we estimate that there would be one essential supplement that would change the law. This was an addition to the mandatory membership. According to our assessment, the law in its form is based on compulsory membership. Regrettably, the Republic of Slovenia, under the guidance of liberal democracy, has introduced a term of compulsory membership in all areas of certain economic activity, where certain economic operators or other entities acting on the market or should act as market-forced persons to join in an integration or institution that has so far proved to be the sole and sole purpose of meeting their own needs. So, meeting the needs of the institution. Not that this institution will help customers or their members, but until now it has proved that such chambers are exclusively designed for themselves. And since, of course, your friends by capital and on the political line could not succeed elsewhere, it is best to legislate such a plastic assembly that does not behave marketly, which is not subject to any market legality, but only for every so long gets the financial resources that are due to pay in our case craftsmen. But they are obliged by law because they are forced to pay their membership fees, even though they have nothing from this membership. And this is the basic and original sin of that law. The mandatory assembly system, we have found, requires mandatory membership. However, compulsory membership requires the mandatory cost of the user or craft or expenditure. To this end, we could still understand the matter if, in return, a craftsman would acquire something for this cost, but the fact is that the vast majority of those who can be part of it is very much a reminder of the former SFRJ, compulsory membership, of which the mandatory membership has nothing but costs and nothing in exchange for the cost. And I'm not saying anything, there's probably someone near the top of the Chamber of Commerce or politics, a few small numbers of craftsmen who then pick up all this ratings. But is that right? We don't think so. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that such a law and related law would be acceptable only if we give the craftsmen a voluntary choice - who wants to be a member of the Chamber, who assesses that he has something from this Chamber and who assesses that he has nothing from such a chamber, but not by law to force him to be a member. In the Slovenian national party of such compulsory membership system in no legal form for this area or for another area, we cannot support it. We will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much, buddy. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, followed by a presentation by his colleague Brenčič. Please, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Party of Young Slovenia we support the amendment of the craft law, which aims to increase the competitiveness of trade, which is particularly important because of the craftsmen themselves, because they represent an extremely important economic force. It is right to do this before Slovenia enters the European Union, but it is wrong to do this only today, because we know that higher competitiveness is always necessary and not only when it enters the European Union. News, which are intended in the law to reduce bureaucratic barriers, of which in the Party of Youth Slovenia we expect the removal of obstacles and conditions for the acquisition of the status of craftsmen and are also necessary, such as the necessary simplified administrative procedures. However, these changes would also have been necessary much earlier, as many Slovenian craftsmen have pointed out for years in vain. The proposer shall finally legislate the decision of the Constitutional Court by laying down in the draft law the grounds for determining membership and the activities financed by membership, both for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and for the Regional Chambers of Commerce. The provisions that set out the framework for the composition of the House bodies and the means of decision-making were also necessary to ensure the representativeness of the decisions taken. Of the majority of amendments to the law relating to the complementary definition of the conduct of crafts and crafts of similar activities with the new professional definition of crafts, to the reduction or termination of qualification and other conditions for the exercise of crafts and crafts of similar activities, and to the harmonisation of the law with the decision of the Constitutional Court, we expect that they will in practice mean easier and better operation of independent entrepreneurs, and that is why we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Comrade Peter Levich. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, colleague Stanislav Brenčič will now conclude a presentation of the positions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary with the team! The trade in Slovenia has had a long and genuine tradition and, as such, has already undergone difficult trials. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the urgency and value of the strongest possible involvement of craft and crafts and thus of the so-called small economy in the entire economic system, which is interdependent and complementary. Therefore, the normative framework of the area of trade must change and adapt to developments in society at home and, last but not least, adapt to all the challenges posed before the Slovenian trade by the four freedoms of our close coexistence in the European Union. In our opinion, the bill follows this and, firstly, eliminates the inconsistencies related to the financing of the activities of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia as representatives of trades with public powers before the state and other bodies under membership membership membership, stressing that the argument of many members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is too strong to expect from the payment of membership fees from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia a better or more extensive and quality service for many open issues. Among these issues, of course, this law does not solve them, but, of course, it is also addressed in the first place to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it certainly is the re-enhancement of payment non-discipline, which is for some craftsman and, in particular, a rookie who does not yet have an adequate capital reserve, an insoluble puzzle and, as the librarian Torkar says, dying on meals. Unfortunately, among the many superlatives that our government is dealing with in public, we do not find this response, but it is essential to increase the new employment of the crafts sector, key to improving the quality of services and, last but not least, key to the quality of the tradesmen's business as a whole. The payment discipline is an indicator of the maturity of a society that is finally entering the European market. On the issue of payment discipline, better said non-discipline, in our opinion, the free economic initiative ends and in our opinion the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is not sound enough. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports more or less all the solutions offered by the bill by believing that the conditions for obtaining a trade permit are overly tightened and thereby prevents, in the first place, the decision-making of individual talented young people to enter into a trade activity. There is also a somewhat shared opinion in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The opinion that the conditions for obtaining the title of master are also exacerbated in certain respects. What is quite clear to many of us is that for the authenticity and development of crafts, such an approach is first and foremost disstimulating as stimulating, the master is the one whose service, product and thus continue to accept the market for value, this is the master by which the market reaches as demand. And it is a shame to destimulate it with such or other administrative measures in this substantive sense. As we say, of course, we will support the law, and we will also support the amendment of the four groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u165	Okay. By presenting the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have concluded a presentation of the views of all parliamentary groups, so that we can now go to the debate on the article and one amendment tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review. The amendments of the LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS were tabled under Article 8. You have a table in front of you, I suppose, a correction of the amendment tabled by these four parliamentary groups. This correction is necessary for the sake of clarity and editorial nature. I'm asking, does anyone want a word about this amendment? Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Well, the area covered by the trade law is an important area for us. This amendment, which we have here before us, is trying to fix some things, but, as we can see from this, even from the explanation, things are regulated differently with us, as they are regulated in the European Union, because it says here directly that the system of recognition of qualifications does not know the concept of master's title nor is it conditioned by the level of education. In short, we are trying to regulate this area of trade more strictly than is regulated in the European Union, and it is not really clear to me why, I would say, we are running this masochism over Slovenian craftsmen. This is not the only area where certain things are written sharper. If we think about it, let's say it's just for BSE control. All of Europe has 30 months, 24 months. In this area, all of Europe has matters in place without specific conditions, and we introduce educational conditions and also these masterly titles. In short, bureaucratic barriers are being put in place. The Czech system is being set up because these conditions will have to be fulfilled, or proved before a commission to be composed, or a group, an expert group at the Chamber of Commerce, and more or less the consequences are clear. In short, it will retain more or less a closed circle, and it can also be inherited in this area. And this does not encourage completely any development. The second, which is even problematic under these conditions, is the following. All S.P.s in their business guarantee full assets. Sounds like everything they've got. In the meantime, like those registered as a limited liability company, they guarantee the creation capital. In this area, we have written down district barriers, bureaucratic obstacles. It takes, I don't know, two million 700,000 tolars to set up the d.o.o., and you can do the same activity. I think that in this area, the border area between crafts and small businesses would make sense to place these boundaries differently. And it would not be necessary to force people to either change, work in a different form, or, most often, to engage in forestry. In short, I think that this area should be opened up as it is in the European Union, that conditions are the same for us, because otherwise there will still be differences. And some there will be able to get certain things without problem, but with us only by procedure, under all these conditions. I think that this solution, which is envisaged, is too closed and is not sufficiently tolerant of all those who know who are craftsmen who are craftsmen, but do not meet formal conditions. Usually these things are just the opposite, those who are handicrafts are usually very poorly educated and vice versa, all some doctors or engineers are usually bad practices and so on. Things should be different in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u167	Please, mag. A visor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I have already presented the opinion on behalf of the Group of Members. However, I would like one position, not least the amendment's proposal and the government. In Slovenia we have adopted a law, I think it is called national professional qualifications, recognition of national professional qualifications. This law was intended to close the void of Slovenian space by granting a qualification to someone on the basis of it, or by proving that it meets the standards of professional knowledge and skills, in accordance with this law. And that's a whole bunch of other submarital acts that, of course, regulate what these standards are, what skills are, and who realizes it. Therefore, what is not to be given, or what is to be made possible, to someone who acquires a national professional qualification by means of an activity in the list of crafts? Why not? Why does it have to stay forever a condition, either education or management or self-employment? Why are we so rigid? If the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to this law is adopted, I will propose an amendment in the third reading to this amendment if, of course, this is procedurally possible, which I think is. In order, of course, to include in these paragraphs, the second section of Article 8 is to include a indent so that a trade permit can be obtained by a person who has obtained a national professional qualification for activities listed in the crafts list. I would also like to ask because my purpose is particularly positive because we want to settle this issue, not least to allow someone who does not have a professional education and who is not a business worker and who is not a self-employed person to obtain a trade permit if, of course, he is able and able to prove that he is achieving professional standards of knowledge and skill for a particular type of craftsmanship. I think that's the right thing to do, and I think that every liberal government should want to do that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u169	Just so there's no misunderstanding. You asked, Comrade Mag. See whether an amendment to this adopted amendment can be tabled in the third reading. This is possible if it is now adopted. One is an opinion, the other is a fact. Can I help you? She's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to be able to explain briefly or give a few additional points in response to the questions and views of Mr Visiak and some other groups of Members. I think that the general claim that conditions are being closed by this law is not true, perhaps it is also a problem to understand the whole structure of changes to the law, which goes in three steps. First, the door to enter a craft activity or trade shall be opened similar activity by dividing it into a crafts permit and trades similar activities that do not require any conditions and no authorisation. And also the example that you have cited is a similar activity, which means that in no case does anyone who wants to start doing this activity alone need neither professional qualifications nor education nor working age or experience in this field. Secondly, in relation only to craftsmanship, most on a craft similar, the conditions are opened, they are no longer specified as specific in combinations as in the previous law, but are bound only to the master’s title or to the least higher education. And the master's title implies professional qualifications, and minimum years of experience or previous working age. So I don't think this is about closing up. However, I think it is also logical that some kind of qualification is expressed by standards, by vocational education or by a national recognised charter, such as the translation of the directive, but in any case remains for activity. Thirdly, there are only additional conditions that are defined in Article 8 and are additional conditions that should primarily compensate or allow for the equivalence of our tradesmen or legal and natural persons who carry out this activity and others who come from European Union countries and in accordance with the Directive on the mutual recognition of qualifications, they can and must be recognised. The same applies, of course, to ours outside. These are essentially open doors just to level the terms. However, this does not mean that those grounds for obtaining a trade permit or carrying out an activity are in fact merely an extension. The question raised was why no conditions whatsoever, why not fully support it. I think that from all the discussions so far, we have somehow come to the conclusion that we agree that trade in Slovenia is a historically important element of our economic system. And given the scope of the activity, also given the number of jobs it creates, I believe that we all agree that this system does not make sense to break. The reason that Europe does not have any such conditions is that there is a need for complementarity. This is because the Liberalisation and Mutual Recognition Directive does not define the qualification conditions and the master title. Other countries, we know the case of Germany, and we have focused on it most of all, and trade and craft legislation or regulations in this area still have them. This Directive alone does not foresee this, which does not, of course, mean that there is no master name and conditions for obtaining a trade permit anywhere in Europe. The fact that it's actually a Czech system is true, because it's essentially a mastery. And that's why mastery exams are and that's why mastery recognitions, which are traditionally part of our system, and I think that when we've just reduced the list and actually told what crafts and craftsmanship is, what crafts is a similar activity, where we can't demand all these experiences and skills, we've eliminated the most administrative obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State Mag. Mushlova. Mag. The little guy wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. It is indeed quite a matter of how much to open the door in order to liberalise and harmonise our terms and conditions for opening the trade with other countries of the European Union, which we are also entering, because the free movement of capital, people and more must be ensured, and yet we must retain the trade. If we have decided to maintain trade, not only as a Czech association, but also as a specific mode of activity, which is worth keeping because of our own development, for the sake of maintaining culture, in order to ensure quality not only through market products, then we must have a condition. And this masquerade is, of course, a higher education in this industry or a master's exam, where it somehow wants to establish a condition at this level that someone has knowledge, technical, craftsmanship, as well as managerial knowledge, if we look at genetics. On the other hand, we now want to involve some other conditions through which people would otherwise come to this goal. So that they have managerial skills, skills and professional education, we must also set conditions at this level. I wonder if that's appropriate or not. All three or four indents are always set up either by a self-employed worker or by an employee. This means that, in some ways, he was a businessman for that business. Now for the person who has professional qualifications. I think that we must be satisfied with the conditions that she has similar skills as a master, that she has acquired them in this way, but she has no formal skills - and how to do so. That is why I accept this initiative from Mr Visionak, and I ask myself how to do it - through recognition, whether he was doing business or he was a pre-worker or something like that. Because otherwise we can devalue the master's exam. This, if people have imagined, especially those involved in craftsmanship, gives this important sieve and important criterion for defining the implementation of crafts, then we need to approach it and find a solution - I do not know that this person or that it is sufficient that she has worked for three years, for example, in such activities, but also has a professional education. [[...]] Is this identical to what we demand, or is it close to what a master’s test is? That's the dilemma. I'd like to open this door, not just for managers. On the other hand, we're trapped. Because that's exactly what mastery's been through. If we're looking at apprenticeships, then we're looking at a profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u173	Master Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u174	Yes, thank you very much. Look, what I'm saying is that he's got some more explaining to do. I certainly agree, and I also come from such an environment where craftsmanship is a historical tradition and it is developed, and it has one special place, precisely because of this issue I have examined slightly more sensitively, and therefore I do not think that it is possible to open the door all the time. However, there is more to bet in craftsmanship, which is to be seen as a priority, knowledge and skills before formal education. And that is why we have adopted in this Parliament a law on national professional qualifications that wanted to fill this gap in the Slovenian space, and, of course, in the third article I have written here, it has written to obtain a national professional qualification as an individual: with professional or professional education achieved for all professions and so on, which is not current. After part of the education programmes for the acquisition of a profession and vocational education. And this last indent, if it proves that it reaches the standards of expertise adopted in accordance with this law. This is precisely the purpose of the National Professional Qualifications Act. That someone acquires a national professional qualification even when he does not fulfil formal education, but has, and proves that he has, standards of expertise and skills in accordance with the law. I am convinced that, in accordance with this Recognition Act, or as it is called, national professional qualifications have also defined catalogues of knowledge, and have also defined commissions as they had to. Also for craftsmanship. And why not someone who proves that he's reaching the standards of professional knowledge doesn't have at least some minimum education under a craftsman's law, he doesn't get a trade permit. Therefore, I think that this exception would apply to include among the exceptions defined in the second indent of Article 8 or the second paragraph of Article 8 and, of course, I have read this before what form of amendment I imagine. Far from wanting to open up and completely relax this matter. And that. I agree, the amendment of the law of this craftsmanship is a step forward towards the release of these obstacles. But we still want to fix it. That's ambition. I'm not saying you're messing with him or going back a step. Let's move on. Why not take one and a half steps forward, perhaps with this amendment or with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u175	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that we must also agree with this, and we have also agreed on previous discussions, where this article was also the main subject of debate. In fact, together, we want to open up and enable as many individuals and economic operators as possible to be included, while at the same time ensuring consistency with European legislation and the equality of conditions for our economic operators, entities from other countries. This is what Mr Vizjak proposes, according to our beliefs and also after the confirmation of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs with which we worked together, since the directive falls within their competence. For it says that there is a need for proof of this prior training, a rock can be confirmed by a nationally recognised charter or what the competent professional authority considers to be a fulfilment of the requirements. And that's exactly what these standards and the terms of the law mean. By specifying this more precisely and then by monitoring the competent department. We just think it's already on. We also have no doubts on Mr Drobnik's proposals and comments, we agree, and yet we believe that this is covered in these four points of Article 8 that each point actually allows and provides answers to those specific groups of people who would like to enter. That is, when we talk about management experience, this is point 4, where we are talking only about the fact that it has to have experience in management, but it does not have to be in craftsmanship or that it is a business worker in crafts. As we are talking about self-employed persons and employees in crafts enterprises, we are also saying that this can be obtained by those who previously carried out the same activity as employees, not as managers, in this same field of activity. Thus, we believe that the translation of the directive, which we have to follow, should not be modified, should be reasonably summarised in such a way that, however, in each indent, it allows for the inclusion of those persons you have spoken of and for whom you want the door to open. If this is not clear enough or you want corrections that will lead to the disadvantage of the law, of course, we very much agree, all of this is in the interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Just to clarify the circumstances. When I read this amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 8, which has been corrected, all four indents speak of the condition of an employee, at least a few years or a self-employed worker. None of the indents shall take into account the case of a person fulfilling or obtaining a national professional qualification. When you quoted one indent, you forgot the first part of this indent when the condition is attached to the fact that only a certain period of time this worker was an employee or a self-employed person. I am referring to the fact that it would be considered to be a special indent to have someone, that is to say that they can also obtain a trade permit that has acquired a national professional qualification for activities in the list of crafts, whether they have ever been a businessman or a self-employed person. That is to say, if he proves that he can do some craftsmanship and that he is also recognised by the national charter, I see no reason under law why he should still be a businessman or a self-employed person in order to obtain a trade. I think the condition of skills and skills is sufficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u179	Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Yeah, now I'm wondering if my comment is still needed. This is exactly what I wanted to replicate, that of course you mention the second indent or the second part of the sentence, but you must first look when it says, self-employed or business worker. And this is considered under this condition that the necessary supplement, which is equivalent to, say, this master's test, is this, this is trying to establish, equality. But Mr Vizjak says why not open up for someone who wasn't a businessman, wasn't self-employed, and he has recognized qualifications and worked as a worker in this trade or activity, I don't know, we can make up three years. Do you weigh this for example three years of practice or five years of practice, I now invent myself in order to obtain a trade permit in an appropriate way as someone who has a master's license? This is now a question of whether carrying out a direct work is enough for someone to acquire credible knowledge that is equivalent to a master's exam? I don't know that now. From the profile of this master's exam, we should look at what it is, I don't know at the moment, because I'm not specialized in it, maybe someone else knows in this room, and then compare, for example, whether it's five years of work, or is it just a foreman, or can we open it? [[....]] But we are aware that the danger is then to devalue the master's exam. We must therefore lay down conditions for equality. I am interested in how to ensure equality for people with vocational education, but they were neither employees nor business workers. But they have some length of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u181	Madam Secretary of State, I give you my word. I'm warning you on time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u182	Very, very quickly. I think it's possible to open up, there are two dangers. There is a danger that we deny the master's exam and the master's title, which is the fundamental essence of this 'cheechism', and there is another possibility that I would like to emphasise earlier, this is an article that translates the European directive, so that we can then allow the entry and pursuit of this activity in Slovenia to foreigners with these facilitated conditions, which, of course, our trade sector probably does not want. These are two threats, but I think the basic, if we agree that the master's title and master's exam are important, then this actually solves Article 20 of the law, where the basic conditions for accession to the master's title are taken into account, where such qualifications and recognition of qualifications have already been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u183	That's it. I believe that we have exhausted the debate unless someone else answers the question. My friend Sok's still talking. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u184	I did not intend to engage in the debate, but because the Secretary of State claims that this is comparable, such as the solutions in the European Union - and I have to challenge it. I myself know people who have acquired qualifications in the work process without the necessary education. For example, such qualifications are very common in industrially most developed countries such as Germany, and I do not know why Slovenia, which is far behind developed Western European countries, would introduce some other standards for our citizens after a gross social product. I really urge you, as representatives of the government, to think carefully about these concerns raised by Comrade Drobnic and colleague Vizjak, and perhaps this amendment, which is obviously a government amendment not a four-member group, should be supplemented by this. To try to find a solution, I don't know, in this direction, to actually unvalue the master's exam, this qualification that we need to record in order to write that case open, to record how many years someone has to work not only as a self-employed or not as a business worker, to gain such and such a right or to work in reverse if, of course, this matter is handled. That is to say, we should also open and allow this in some way in our legislation if you want to talk about the comparability of the solution in the European Union countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u185	Would you like to explain something else? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u186	One more time. This is about the additional facilitated conditions that apply to our and potential tradesmen from other countries. The basic condition is still, and this is the intent of this law, the acquisition of a masterly title. For accession to the master title, however, everyone with vocational education has the right, which has already been reduced by amendments and - how many - three years of work experience. As a professional education, you know that, under this domestic legislation, the acquisition of a certificate or standards is also considered without the need to conduct a secondary vocational school - what Mr Vizjak has always stressed - and under these basic conditions to carry out a trade activity at home, this is covered. In Article 8, which opens up additional opportunities for carrying out activities without the requirement of a master's examination, we still believe that it is too dangerous to open this up because it is primarily about harmonising the European Union's systems and liberalising the transitions between countries. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u187	Anyone else want a word, we're at point four, complementing the craftsman's marriage? No, no, no. Then I will close the debate now, break this agenda item and inform the assembly how we will proceed after 6:30 p.m. when we meet again to decide on the 1st item of the agenda that was last night and today's decisions. We will first decide on three proposals from three of our fellow Members to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the response of Prime Minister or Minister and Minister, a proposal from colleague Bajuk, colleague Rupar and colleague Rokavac. We will continue with our 2nd paragraph and decide again on the law on game and hunting, and here I point out that a qualified majority, that is to say, the majority of Members 46 or more, must now be required in the re-decision, in accordance with Article 21(2) of the Constitution. Point 5 will be completed on Thursday, also 6th, and 7th. The 10th item is tonight, it is a matter of deciding on a proposal for a decision to supplement the law on local self-government. The proposal is that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration and would then be concluded today by a decision on the amendment to supplement the craft law and supplement the craft law itself. With regard to the 3rd item of the agenda, I would like to remind you that this is a proposal for a law amending the law on trade, that the legislature has prepared an opinion on that proposal for a law whereby, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy have led to a lack of consistency of the legal text. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the law-makers, this is a group of Members with their first-signed colleague Drobník, to prepare a harmonisation amendment - I am talking about the trade law - within a time limit which will allow its consideration to take place on Thursday, 29 this month, following the end of the last item of the agenda. Is that all right? Okay. I am now adjourning until 6:30 p.m. when we move on to decision-making on agenda 1st. Until then, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u188	Please take your seats. We will move to the votes of the National Assembly on the points of last night and today's meeting. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We were interrupted at the 1st item of the agenda last night, questions from Members and Members. On this agenda item, we will decide on three conclusions, consummately, first of all on the proposal of colleague Dr Andrej Bajuk to hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on initiatives to improve the material situation of Slovenian families in the light of the new tax legislation. Then we will move on to a decision on the proposal by my colleague Rupar to hold a debate on the answer of the Minister of Education on the issue of kindergartens, and finally, my colleague Rokavac, to discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Tee Petrin, on the issue of leather industry. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First of all, I'm gonna ask you to check your voting devices to see if they're okay. No comments. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Dr Andre Bajuk to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the government's position on initiatives to improve the material situation of Slovenian families in the light of the new tax legislation. Please, Comrade Dr. Bajuk, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The actual demographic situation of Slovenia is truly worrying, it can be described as catastrophic. The fact is that in the coming months we have already set out proposals which, according to our assessment, do not respond sufficiently to the approach that countries must have in their own, for example, tax legislation to truly favour the Slovenian family. I am well aware of this - and I have also replied to the President, although I did not respond to his disqualifications, because it is in itself sad enough that he did them at all, not that I did not respond. However, I would like to reiterate that I am well aware that financial measures will not solve everything. Nevertheless, I would repeat what I was saying yesterday, namely, that I learned a very good saying from our Italian neighbours: money does not create happiness, but it does calm the nerves. And even though it has to do with some cynicism, there is only one great truth. We can help to do this, and I think that the debate on the demographic problem and the necessity of the family's more favoured system will allow us to have a better debate on these proposals, which the government has already sent us, and this is what is called a tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u190	The National Assembly will now have two more explanations, colleague Kelemin and colleague Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this proposal, but I would just like to comment on why. Indeed, Mr Prime Minister said that Slovenia is investing enormous amounts of money in family policy and so on. I do not say that this is not true, in different segments, but I do appreciate that all these measures and all the policies the government is implementing in this area are obviously not enough to stop or possibly shift the demographic picture from this dead point to even a positive trend. In fact, I personally estimate that it would certainly be at least what should be done, for example, in family and demographic policies, that, say, families or women with multiple children, if not the other, at least they would be able to provide pension and health insurance, in addition to having a child allowance for their children, at least they do not even have to pay for their children - say if they have four children - to raise them because they are huge costs. Even as a result of such a measure, a woman might choose to stay at home and focus on the number of families. However, if there is no economic security and somehow no guarantee that you can support your children, then the family or the woman does not decide on the family, but chooses a career and prefers no child but simply to go into uncertainty. That is why I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to set up a policy in this area, to address some issues and to discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u192	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members and Members! Personally, I think that the issue of demographic policy for Slovenia before Slovenia enters the European Union is such an important issue that we should be able to discuss this issue in this national assembly. The situation in this area is not to say catastrophically, I will use the word from year to year worse. This is, of course, the most felt by the Members coming from rural rural areas, and this is also felt by the congregations established in these areas. Minister Rop replied yesterday in his reply that the government is sufficiently concerned about this area, and data and reality are completely different. You applauded the President's response yesterday, which means you approve of his answer. I propose that you vote today to hold a debate in the National Assembly and then compare the data presented yesterday by the Prime Minister with the information we receive in the opposition by the family-friendly society. You will see that these data are not really such and Slovenian demographic politicians are promising even more black scenarios than they are now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u194	Master Petty Officer, did you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, too, to express my voice, my decision on this initiative by my fellow Member, Dr Bajuk. Yes, it is not only money that shapes our behavior in this country with regard to children, family and everything that fundamentally shapes our image, our public, our country. There's a lot of other things besides money. This is the formation of a public opinion: whether it is to make families smile through the media, to make families laugh with more children, to make some jokes. It is a question of whether I build Slovenia's integrity of policy, which is not only a policy of money, but also something else - a preference for individualism, not solidarity. This is shown through different laws; it is not just a law on income; it is a lot of other things where there is no emphasis on it. Thought patterns that are in the media and produced by politics. Or not in the end the fear of domestic violence, as if the family were the one where violence arose. And that's why it needs to be broken down into individuals. Either this or we may be heading in a different direction to become a family as a way of life, a real pattern of life, interesting even for the third millennium. And to get these right answers, of course I strongly support my colleague Bayuk, who made this proposal, and I ask that we vote. I'll confirm that myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u196	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we've had our discussions before, so we're just voting now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u198	Now you have the right to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you. Because I also wish someone could hear me. I would like to say that what our President, Dr Andrej Bajuk, has proposed is not the capricious of New Slovenia, is not the capricious of the coalition of Slovenia, but is one of the key issues of our future, and because I am participating in a close working group organised by the President of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, who is very politically composed and I would like to say that at the last meeting of this group dealing with sustainable development issues in Lisbon last week, we discussed much more about family policy in the European context, than about the immigration policy, which you know is a constant debate within the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u200	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u201	And if we focus on this issue in our field, we will, if I put it this way, be in the European trend. Of course I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u202	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support Mr Bayuk's proposal. After all, it is true that the Slovenian state treats Slovenian citizens and citizens very strangely. As if you wanted to erase them in every way and perform the task that neither the Nazis nor the Fascists failed, but no one else. I think it is a shame that the LDS coalition and the United List of Social Democrats are working so hard for all possible so-called deleted and for all foreign, bilateral, sub-party groups, groups, groups and sub-groups, but at the same time forgets its own citizens and citizens. I think it is very important that the topic is topical, which we need to discuss and yet we already have pure wine. Above all, pour pure wine also to those who brought us into the national assembly: both us and you. For this reason, I think it would make sense just to have this topic dealt with in here, but to remove the wider public debate. Of course, the media reports as they normally do in the Western world, not commenting on what they see because they usually comment wrongly, either by accident or at the request of the masters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u204	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support the proposal by Mr Bayuk to hold a debate in the National Assembly on demographic policy. Mr Bayuk, with this debate, would like to reiterate only the fact that the debate is being held. The debate in the National Assembly on this subject will have no financial implications, colleagues and colleagues. No financial implications for the budget! However, of course, such a discussion may also reveal a mask that so often appears just when we are talking about demographic policy. Some people like to say a lot, but when this is to be taken into account in legislation, one way or another, then decisions are completely different. In this debate, I expect the government to come up with concrete data; not only on general data in Slovenia, but also on data in the regions. This would therefore be a time of extreme urgency. It's just a debate. Once again, this is not about any financial implications at this time. At least Parliament should be allowed to discuss such pressing issues as demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u206	My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Of course I'll vote in favour. If we know that children are one nation's greatest wealth, that is reason enough to support this proposal. Being scary in Slovenia, that also excuses my decision. And since I have for some time an open fixture on a multi-child family bank myself, I cannot possibly be contradicted by myself in order not to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u208	She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u209	From yesterday's response by the Prime Minister, it was clear that the answer was fully given. And it should also be satisfying, but today’s explanations of vote show a completely different, different attitude. Which means either the answer to the wrong question or the wrong question has been asked because today I understand that you all want to discuss at a broader meeting on values rather than on the questions raised. However, questions have been raised about measures and the effects that the state can stop in order to enable a better or better quality of life in the context of families and births. But if politics can invent a possibility or formula for greater fertility in this country, then I support a debate that can find answers to this formula; if politics can even have this power to do so. However, I certainly do not deny the need to talk about values in the National Assembly, because these values are already coming as part of the answer to what was actually asked, but not as an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u210	I no longer see applications for explanations of vote, so we can move on to the first vote tonight. We will therefore decide on the proposal of Comrade Dr Bayuk to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the response of the Prime Minister to his question. We're voting. There's 76, 32 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary support. We will now decide on the proposal of my colleague Rupar. It suggests that we hold a discussion at the next regular session on the response of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gabra, to his question on kindergarten issues. Please, Comrade Rupar, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u211	Thank you very much. It is logical that I will undermine my proposal, but I would also like to say that because the situation in kindergartens, especially funding, the difference in the price of kindergarten between parental contributions and the duty of the municipality has become such a problem in many municipalities in Slovenia that it is already known for protection or for children themselves. The problems that have emerged in Ptuj, Mengš, Tržič, Lithia and elsewhere, where I know you still have problems and that they still have problems, can be very, I will say, with a great negative consequence for these little children. Indeed, the situation in this area is very, I will say, disorderly, not in agreement with those who are most responsible for having kindergartens take place. The standards set by the Ministry, the price which is not in any way the same across Slovenia, then the salaries of employees - principals, say 450 thousand - on the other hand, the inability of municipalities to influence good business where it is already a real crisis, have led me to ask parliamentary questions, which, unfortunately, I did not even get an answer, what if only the Minister somehow directed my debate at this. Therefore, I propose and expect support for children - not for the sake of those who are employed, not for the municipalities, but for the sake of the children - to extend the debate to the next meeting and, of course, to try to resolve this situation, which, if this alarm is not adopted too quickly or taken into account, may lead to various disasters, which, once again, will be felt by the children themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u212	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support this debate. After all, it is not just the uneven prices of kindergartens throughout Slovenia, it is also the worst thing, the one that hurts parents the most, to subsidise the unjustifiable. There are some known examples in each kindergarten, some of them even a few ten when they arrive in kindergarten with a Mercedes, but they have kindergarten for free, home have no idea what kind of crafts, while those who actually go to work and fight for survival have to pay usually the highest prices of kindergartens. This is a completely irregular relationship and an irregular situation in general in this area. The fact is, the LDS ruling coalition has had the opportunity to settle this in at least ten years, but it has not done so and only in the last few months before the elections would we like to put this aside and not discuss it. However, I think that the topic is hot, it is necessary to discuss at least the matter in order to be clear if it is not possible to deal with it definitively in the past few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u214	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This proposal by my colleague Rupar regarding the debate on developments in kindergartens and, of course, the possible impact of the municipalities on this issue and the obligations imposed by the State would be necessary. I've already tried to conduct these conversations through the Ministry of Finance. In fact, it is impossible that some of them are not all of them now, but some municipal budgets, even in smaller municipalities, where they built kindergartens or some premises for use, for kindergartens, are now charged up to 20% there. Can you imagine what 20% - percent of the budget burden is just to subsidize the operation of kindergartens? So this means a certain financial breakdown at local level.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u216	Peace. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u217	Of course, I believe that this is not a problem for the Ljubljana municipality, because of 61 billion, it probably does not spend 12 billion on child protection. This, however, is a problem in congregations with several hundred million budgets. The instructions that have now come in terms of asset identification when the state imposes some obligation on the municipalities, which is not in their jurisdiction, are contrary to the legislation, we have tax administration for this, but the dacaras or, I don't know, the Ministry of Finance does not deal with what should be done, but simply retransmits and imposes on the municipalities. In the end, congregations will come because of such illegal demands on the part of the Ministry for Disputes and Court. It is therefore necessary to hold this debate. I hope that this time we will be allowed to discuss in this house where the word should be valid and the word has the power of argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you very much. On the basis of the questions raised by the Member States, as well as the debate on the legislation governing the financing of kindergartens, pre-school education, the issue of the insistence of the current situation, particularly when the state sets out on one hand the conditions and criteria for kindergartens, how large spaces must be, how many educators, what education they must be, in a union agreement, the government agrees with the representatives of unions on the level of wages of these people. In the end, of course, all of this is paid by the congregations and, on top of this, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly shown us that this money is already included in the appropriate consumption and that we are thus getting the money that we are then giving. That is true, for from day to day the congregation sees a gap between resources and the need dictated by others. In particular, the problem of the so-called superstandard is not superstandard. Some speech therapist in kindergarten isn't super standard. Our authority tells us it's super standard, but of course it's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u220	Comrade Vizjak, just a moment. Over 80, 82 of us are in the hall, can only one of us speak, please? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u221	Therefore, the debate and the search for solutions towards a different funding arrangement for preschool education is extremely important. For if nothing is done in this area, content will suffer, especially education and those first steps of preschool children who are still important for the personal development of each child. And I think before you close your eyes and leave the preschool fundraiser in distress, it's unfair. That is why I support this debate, and I think it is necessary to solve the problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u222	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u223	The state is setting ever more difficult conditions for the organisation, financing and implementation of kindergarten activities, and of course it is allocating less and less resources, so it postpones obligations instead of providing from the state budget a state programme, you do not want to transfer it to kindergarten. At the same time they are happening to us - by the way, about three months ago we discussed the amendment of the Kindergarten Act, where in the New Slovenia Group we proposed that the senseless limitation on the size and obligation of restructuring be lifted. In this National Assembly, in particular in the ruling coalition, there was no understanding of the proposal building on smaller costs, those unnecessary administrative costs, in order to provide funds, a greater balance of resources for quality implementation in kindergartens. A lot is going on this way, so I think a serious debate on the financing of kindergartens is necessary, because in two, three years the system has changed significantly. A serious analysis, reflection, and so it would be good for the government to prepare a report on what had happened, what had happened, what had happened. And in this connection, we could adopt some conclusions, some guidelines that would mean turning in the right direction, even in the sense of what previously mentioned by fellow Member Dr. Bayuk-demographic policy. This also affects demographic policy and demographic situation. That's why I'm going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u224	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much. In any case, I will support the proposal of Mr Rupar's fellow Member to discuss the issue of kindergarten financing. However, I would like to highlight only one aspect of this disagreement. See, it is generally known that in our Slovenia only 5.2% of gross social product is consumed at the local level or translated, it will be poor 12% of public finances. A fully unbalanced kindergarten funding system also contributes to this. Completely unbalanced, sanctioning municipalities that are economically poor, where little income is collected, and sanctioning in this sense, because in these areas, where more and more people are living in poverty from day to day - not to say poor - people, the contribution of the municipality to the centralist economic price of kindergartens, where demographic policy is also hidden, I will also say, too many kindergartens in urban areas in connection with the reduction of the number of children. This condition is unsustainable. We have an increasing number of parents who are completely exempt from payment of care for kindergartens or on average less than 15% of the economic price. In a mockery of everything, we now dealt with some forms two months after the congregations, some identification of the property situation that only brought up three in the area of the six congregations — three payers were so honest that they entered the real property and thus came up for one pay grade higher. In a mockery of this, the result was nothing, and we have also warned of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u226	Yeah, just to calm down the state choir a little bit. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. Indeed, I will support this proposal for a discussion on the answer to this question by my colleague Rupar in particular because of this aspect of what is happening in recent months after the municipalities. In view of the fact that the municipalities are in charge of determining the property situation with the new methodology. Indeed, in this way the State has entrusted the municipalities with a new task, and it has not, of course, taken care to provide funding as well. The fact is that more or less half of municipalities have a maximum of one person employed in Slovenia in municipal administrations. And let him deal with this problem. However, the key issue with regard to the financing of kindergartens is the inappropriate transfer of funds by the State to finance child protection. Larger centres with smaller demographic positive movements do not, of course, feel this. Others, in addition to these centres, have actually experienced demographic growth and lack financial resources. Therefore, this debate is urgently needed in order to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u228	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u229	By means of a new law on the financing of municipalities, they may otherwise provide funds to these areas for the co-financing of childcare or kindergartens in the municipalities. [[...]] That is why I will also support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u230	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u232	We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on a proposal from my colleague, Rupar. Order! We're in the middle of a vote. 76 present, 33 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary support. We will also decide on the last proposal, on the proposal for a decision made by Comrade Rokavec, to discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly the response of Minister of Economy, Dr Tei Petrin, to his question on the issue of the leather industry. You want to explain your voice? Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support this proposal. But I also ask my fellow Members and fellow Members to follow me. Indeed, even after many years of resolving issues in the leather industry, and especially after the agony of one year and more in Šmartno pri Litija, the country does not yet have an adequate rehabilitation programme at state level, which would actually give hope for a quality solution to the problem in the leather industry. To the specifically asked question to the Minister: How is it possible that management in the IUV Vrhnika allows members of the administration to operate with the IUV through their companies and what is the competitive clause here? - the answer, I did not get to that question. The control of the State by the majority owner in this case is also not properly regulated, so if the state gives money, money to overcome problems, it is also necessary to establish adequate control and to clearly determine whether a competitive clause in this case will be taken into account in the economy. That is why I think it is more than obvious, because in fact workers suffer mainly, there is no solution and where there is no solution is actually every day more jobs are at risk. I suggest that this debate is more than a fitting one and that you tear it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u234	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I would be most happy if Mrs Petrinova did not speak at all and would be even happier if she were not even here in Parliament and if she were not at the ministerial level, I would still support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u236	Good. The national assembly will now also decide on this third decision as set out in item 1 of the agenda. We're voting. There are 75, 36 for and 38 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] This proposal has not been adopted. So we have decided on the decisions related to the first point and we are at the conclusion of the second point, this is the re-decision on the law of savagery and hunting. Before we move to a decision, I am obliged to point out, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91, that a qualified majority, i.e. 46 or more votes of Members and Members, is now required for the adoption of the law. I'll get to the decision. We're voting. Excuse me. Comrade Sok, would you like to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your word. So we don't make too quick decisions. So I would like to hear our colleagues sitting in the European Parliament, or the President of the European Parliament must constantly repeat the word 'peace'. You have said this today, Mr President, because it is not your fault, but because it is like a beekeeper in this House: no one listens to just the keys and everyone knows how to vote. I would really like you to allow the President not to have to repeat the word "peace" all the time. So, as far as this law is concerned, we will not break this law in New Slovenia. We are convinced that this marriage is worse than the situation we currently have in our country. This law imposes obligations on owners, this law imposes obligations on the State and confers on it a certain layer, which is called hunting families. This law is neither European nor modern nor eco-social nor natural. In a word, I could say, because it's the most appropriate word to say that it's a hunting law, which I've said here before. I don't know how, when this law is passed, you can explain that a farmer living in Austria can have a hunting right, while his neighbor, who lives a hundred meters away in Slovenia, cannot obtain such hunting rights under this law that you will adopt; both of them, of course, are citizens of the European Union. Such legislation is discriminatory and we will certainly not support such a law in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u238	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, there was quite a debate about this law. No wonder the Council of State voted veto against this law. It is clear to all of us that he is as he is, and if he is adopted by 46 votes or more, he is unconstitutional. The law is going to be talking at least to the Constitutional Court. What is even more important is that it is directed against the congregations, directed against the owners of the land, and directed against the hunters. I've talked to some hunters who say that such a law actually prevents us from doing what is called maintenance, feeding, training, what is called working in the forest - it makes it impossible for us. And I asked why. Yes, because it is directed against all the owners because it is directed against the congregations because people will look at us badly. And if people look at us badly, we won't go there, and we'll just leave it. That is why this law is ultimately directed against the Slovenes and the Slovenes. That is why this law is weak and does not deserve 46 votes from Members, and it needs to be rejected and prepared by a new one that will fit. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u240	We'll decide. We're voting. 77 present, 55 for, 20 versus. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. Attention! At the 5th point of the agenda, the law was decided on Thursday. Also on agenda items 6 and 7. At the 10th item of the agenda, we will now decide on a proposal for a law to supplement the law on local self-government after a reduced procedure, without any misunderstandings being made very loudly immediately, the decision reads: "The proposal for a law to supplement the law on local self-government, after a reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration." Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Is everything clear? We're in the middle of a vote. 78 present, 59 for, 18 versus. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] The legislative procedure is thus terminated. At the third point, I have already said, I think that this is coordinated with the proposaler, and I said this earlier in the debate. The harmonisation amendment will be able to regulate the identified non-compliance and this amendment should be put into effect by Thursday. At point 4, we have the last decision today - a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the craftsmen's law. We're at second reading. We have an amendment tabled. This amendment, as I said in the debate, has been corrected. It's about repairing editorial nature. Can we decide on the amendment? We are voting on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. 76 present, 64 for, one against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u241	Mr President, I propose, in view of the amendment adopted, that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a third hearing at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u242	Since the amendment was adopted in the second reading, the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, as proposed by the Secretary of State, shall carry out a third examination of the draft law. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members present. Can we make a decision? Please. If it is more than a third against it, the decision will not be adopted. 72 in attendance, 60 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] This concludes this agenda item. I would also inform you on this point that, in view of the decision taken, it is now necessary to prepare a third reading of the draft law. This will be on Thursday after the end of the last item of the agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include this amendment and the article to which this amendment will be adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. Before we say good-bye for today, only information about tomorrow. Are you so kind? Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will start the meeting or continue the 33rd regular session, at which we will decide on the Treaty, on Slovenia's accession to the European Union. In a way, we will change the tradition of the established meeting process because we believe - and this is a unanimous decision - that it is an extremely important ratification. The Prime Minister will take the lead, other qualified government candidates and qualified candidates, or those who present the views of the committees or the committee on our part, will present the views of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and then we will proceed immediately to the decision-making process. I would like to stress this in particular in order to allow Members and Members to participate in this debate before a decision is taken. We believe that the decision will be taken and that after the conclusion of the decision, we will suspend the work of the assembly in twenty minutes and prepare an informal reception in the hall or in the lobby of the great hall. The meeting will be attended tomorrow by the President of the State with other high-level guests, all of whom are invited to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. So much for information. Thank you very much. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 10:00.
