ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Ivan Bozič, Stanislav Brenčič, Franc Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Zmigo Jelinčič, Franc Kangler, Yuri Malovrev to 12.00 p.m., Rudi Može from 17.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m., Alojz Peterle, Franci Rokavec to 12.00 p.m., Majda Širca, Janko Weber to 13.30 p.m., Dušan Vučko, Aloyz Sok from 16.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. Janez Petty Officer from 4:30 p.m. First, I'd like to inform you that we're not going to start with the 8th, because she's not ready yet. But since yesterday, we have three votes on the agenda. We'll start with point one. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with Dr. Andrey Bajuk's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andre Bajuk about the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the public company Holding." We're voting. Procedural? Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u2	If you allow, Madam President, I would like to ask whether the Committee on Finance has completed its work so far or whether the members of the Committee are still at the meeting of this Committee. That's important, because Dr. Bajuk is a member of the committee, and I think he should be here if he's free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u3	If there is a conflict between the work of the working bodies and the plenary of the national assembly, it is clear that the plenary session is a primary one, because we are voting against it today, there is no evening vote, so this meeting should be concluded by ten o'clock. Can we determine if this meeting was concluded by ten o’clock? It's over. If the session is over, then there's no objection to going to the vote and doing what we said yesterday that we would do this morning. Please check your voting devices if the cards are filed so that there will be no embarrassment. So I repeat, we are voting on the proposal for a decision, as proposed by Mr Andrej Bajuk. Explanation of voice. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u4	My fellow Member, Dr Bajuk, raised a question about Holding, regarding the state authorities, which were involved in any way in resolving the disputed operation of Holding, its companies associated with the SIB Bank and more. His fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, was not satisfied with the reply, for the Government's mandate holder claimed that this was not the subject of the dismissal of the government or the state authorities. Of course it is. All those things, irregularities that have taken place and are still taking place, because Holding still works, are also, of course, in the domain of state institutions. Indirectly also the Bank of Slovenia, and certainly the Court of Auditors, the Audit Commissions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is precisely because of such a response, which was not complete, which was unclear and which did not promise anything, that a debate should be held to clarify the circumstances. I will therefore support this proposal for a debate on the Prime Minister's response to the question being sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Thank you very much. You too, Mr Kremjar, will get a word if you want, and you will get it several times for different explanations, so I would ask you to leave, I have got a word and then I can explain my voice. I will vote in favour of this proposal, and I cannot possibly be satisfied with the Prime Minister's response. I was here, I listened to his reply and the Prime Minister's reply was that the government was not responsible if someone in this country, in this case the Ljubljana Municipality did not comply or enforce the laws or did not follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, I cannot agree with this, because ministries such as the Ministry of Justice, then the Ministry of the Interior are certainly part of the executive branch, part of the government. As such, the executive authority must, by its functions, follow its constitutionally guaranteed tasks and see whether the legislation in the Republic of Slovenia is being enforced and how it is being implemented. I think that because of such an answer, and because of such a government's view of the problems that are emerging, we have many problems in this country that we are not solving. It would therefore be appropriate and proper to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are now concluding these explanations of vote and moving on to the vote. We are voting on Dr. Andrey Bajuk's decision. We're voting please. Of the 46 present, 15 voted in favour and 31 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. The second proposal shall be adopted. In line with Mr Saš Pečet's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Prime Minister Mirk Bandel to Mr Saša Pečet's question in connection with or the concrete consequences of Sunday's referendum. Can we vote? [[Yeah.]] Let's vote. Of the 47 present, 12 were voted against and 34 were voted against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Third proposed decision. In line with Mr Jožet Tank's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy of Mags. Janez Kopač asked Mr Jožet Tank about the implementation of the Interstate Treaty concerning the Krška nuclear power plant. Can we get to the vote? Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Yesterday, I asked a question about the implementation of the Interstate Treaty. The fact is that in this case it is the largest joint project between Croatia and Slovenia, and the fact is that the obligations of the Croatian parties to this Treaty in particular are not realized in accordance with the plan and assumptions. Croatia does not invest in the decommissioning fund, nor has it done much in determining the location for the storage of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. The Minister's response to my question was insufficient and incomplete in this part. The question of prejudicing Slovenian debt to Croatia also arises. In this case, where relations have not yet been defined and defined, the Minister has already recognised some of the Slovenian obligations to Croatia. And I think that, in accordance with the content set out, we should also discuss this at this national assembly. I think it is right that the National Assembly and the Slovenian public are familiar with all the recent developments in the regulation of the situation between Slovenia and Croatia. This is an important issue, which also concerns the Slovenian national economy, which also concerns the energy costs of this country, and I therefore appeal to my colleagues to support the proposal to hold a general debate on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Explain to the voice Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u10	I am also in favour of the proposal to hold a general debate on this important topic, because the Minister's response was indeed extremely scoffy. The implementation of this Interstate Treaty on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is an extremely important issue for Slovenia. At the time of the preparation of this treaty, some of us predicted exactly what is happening now - that it is an extremely bad solution, that the decommissioning funds are two separate, one in Zagreb, the other in Zagreb. I myself have predicted that such a solution could not be expected to produce anything in this agreement, which is territorially separate from the place of the nuclear power plant. Mr Kopač said a week before the signing of this contract at a press conference that he did not see a bad point in this contract. After that, the treaty has deteriorated further to the detriment of Slovenia, and now we are faced with the fact that the government has no real answers or has no answers at all to how it will ensure the realization of this Treaty, which I think is bad, let alone to protect Slovenian interests. In addition, we know that we need to discuss this issue because the Commission of Inquiry has also found 15 billion damage caused by the power cutoff. I think that this is such a complex area that the consideration of the National Assembly simply cannot be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! My assessment is that the debate on this issue is very meaningful. At the very least, what we should do is that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy should convene a meeting of the Committee or put this issue on the agenda of the Committee, because, as far as I know, this issue concerns this Committee. At the very least, the Committee should follow closely all the implementation of this Treaty. The controversy on this was not only on the committee, but also on the national council, but also on a wider scale, a great deal of interest in the public to address this current issue. I think that the National Assembly, at least of course the Committee on Foreign Policy, is obliged to monitor these events and also to take appropriate action if the implementation of the Treaty is in some crisis or stagnation. We know that this is so at present, and I think that the National Assembly is justified, but above all the Foreign Policy Committee, to be informed exactly what is going on in this area and that we can also take appropriate measures. We do know, however, that the Treaty is not actually being implemented to the extent and within the time limit laid down in the Treaty itself from the outset. I think it is time to take some new positions and some new directions, how to proceed, all those negotiators and the groups working in this area. That is why, of course, I support this proposal meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Peche. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! The very possibility of Croatia's failure to comply with the Interstate Treaty should be in the interest of this entire national assembly, but not only of the opposition, to discuss this issue. Especially in the light of what has happened in the past in this area, what has been the result of shortcomings or non-responsibility, both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the past. In the absence of respect for the Interstate Treaty by Croatia, however, I think it is more than necessary for this National Assembly to support the proposal of its colleague Tank. We will, of course, support the proposal in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] Let's vote. Of the 52 present, 16 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PROTECTION LAW BEFORE THE IONIZING SEVENING AND NUCLEAR SECURITY PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Minister Janez Kopach, whom I welcome. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes I get confused with ionizing radiation, but that's not why. The proposal for a law is of a highly technical nature. Until the entry into the European Union, as you know, we need to harmonise terminology throughout a series of laws and say what is the customs territory of the Republic of Slovenia, what is the market, what is the domestic market, what is the foreign market, what is imports, what is exports. This bill, this novel speaks only of this, so if you don't mind, it doesn't seem necessary to present in very detail all the articles it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mr. Branko Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u18	At its 55th meeting, on 16 and 19 April, the State Infrastructure Assembly Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on ionising radiation and nuclear safety. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission of the State Council for Regional Development. The Legislature pointed out a series of inconsistencies in the proposed law to several articles, by which the Committee, on the basis of comments, considered all the proposed amendments proposed by colleague Zoran Gračner, and also formulated a series of amendments. After discussion, the Infrastructure Committee adopted all the articles of the law, together with the amendments adopted, and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, did you want a word? There was something procedural. Can you turn off Mr. Janc?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, according to the proposal of today's agenda, we should start with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law. I was on the Infrastructure Committee, and I know that the committee suspended the meeting at half past six and was not ready to proceed, nor on the Committee, even though it was still time. So I wonder if this point is now thrown out of the agenda, because it's simply embarrassing for me to have some agenda so we can go over it without saying a word. I think that this point is automatically excluded from the hearing, but otherwise we need to give people who are watching us and the public some explanation why we have such an arbitrary agenda that we do not stick to any agenda that is announced. In fact, it is a shame for this National Assembly to include points that are practically not a chance to be prepared under some normal procedure. For this reason, let us explain to the public that the government has not submitted this law in time, that there are no conditions for its consideration and that we have skipped it and that we will not consider it at this meeting. I think we have to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u21	The bill was placed on the agenda as an emergency procedure. In the event of an emergency, it is possible to discuss the working body. In the note we gave, we wrote that the assembly would consider the proposal for a law if it was prepared by the mother's working body. In preparation, the amendments are not made to the end. Since the committee has not completed its work, it will continue its work tomorrow at nine, and the assembly is still in session, of course it can be expected that this item will be placed on the agenda or that we will discuss it because it is on the agenda. This practice is not unusual for this National Assembly. We have already carried out the agenda points many times, because the government, at the time it was supposed to, did not prepare the material as it should, then the working body could not do its work in time and then we moved the points to the previous meeting at the previous meeting. This is happening to us practically all the time, so it is nothing new and I would not discuss it anymore, nor would I allow a debate on this matter. However, at the beginning of the meeting, I said that this item would not be on the agenda today, but that tomorrow it would take the committee forward and we will see if it would do its work as it should. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. He's got the word "magic" first. Smaller in the name of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is probably too much to point out that the government has not drawn up the law in time, and this is a very technical law, in terms of preparing to join the European Union. I reiterate that this is not because of the European Union. It's probably the citizens who understand it as if we're bowing to them, but we're doing it for our own safety. And these harmonisations should in fact be adopted earlier, at least part of the provisions. However, some provisions apply exclusively to the date of entry, but this does not mean that 50 laws should therefore be amended one week before entry. Then the ministers don't even know what they're taking or what they're defending. The last time I felt truly sorry for the Minister on the Economic Committee, he didn't know, because he didn't know about all the provisions, all the changes. He couldn't have known, because just before today, the translations were modified, supplemented, harmonised, and they weren't done properly. And how, then, should this national assembly take responsibility? We're making a fool of each other! In this regard, I believe that this is an abuse of procedure. And the whole thing in April is a state of emergency. At the same time, we are changing a third, or how many governments, you never know when there will be another debate on the new ministers. This law concerns the harmonisation of ionising radiations in our country, standards, criteria for healthy life, for healthy food, food, agricultural products, as well as goods and services that are dangerous to life and the environment. Many of these substances are circulating after the collapse of the communist system. The problem is not so much that these things are not registered, but it is now changing that the registration point is in any Member State and applies to the whole Union, but that this space is opaque. During the last 15 years, many of these substances have been introduced into the European Union countries, which are not registered and which pose a serious threat. Secondly, there are existing contaminations in the environment, which unfortunately we cannot eliminate, things are only a little milder. We also have some of these cases in Slovenia, which mean severe contamination. But let us hope that these standards prevent this from happening. In New Slovenia, we believe that in the law criminal provisions are disproportionate, that some are too high, some too low, so they should be much more carefully defined, both offences and crimes. It's a problem with the records. The law will now determine how the recording of the entry and the amount of this material, as defined in the law, is, however, not required by the required sub-legal procedures, nor are the services qualified for the genuine accuracy and good management of these records, prosecution of offences or offences and prevention. While we in the New Slovenia Group will not oppose this law because it belongs to the harmonisation package, of course we will not provide it with support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that there will be no misunderstandings and no ill will to support this law, even though it was last year that we passed an ionising radiation and nuclear safety law and that, like this amendment, the attached annex, that the euro is aligned, we are already meeting after a bad year with the amendment. It is necessary to introduce further amendments to the law in order to bring the final text into line with the legal acts in force in the European Union. Coordination with the rules of the European Union also allows the proposer to bring the law into line with the urgency procedure, thereby ensuring priority treatment in the national assembly. Everything's fine and fine up here. When I examined the basic text of the law, as long as it allowed time, I found that it was very unrequited, more or less editorial corrections. Some articles are only being supplemented or most articles with the concept of the European Union are being replaced again elsewhere, such as in Article 5, in Article 9, the word 'former' is replaced by 'first'. In short, nothing special. Most of the corrections relate to fines for offences, namely in three articles. And the fines are raised three times, from 30 to 90 million. However, I would like to point out that the offence law was adopted six months ago, before the adoption of the ionising radiation and nuclear safety law, which means that the time to incorporate these provisions has been more than sufficient to take account of the criminal provisions. On the basis of the text of the law, the basic text of the novel, I cannot agree that in the event of an irregular adoption of the novel, there are difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State, unless the delay in the adoption of the novel does not entail any unnecessary penalties for the State. That's not what the proposer introduced us to. But it would be good if we knew something about it. All other things are not so natural as to have difficult remedial consequences. However, when I read the introductory explanation and the justification more precisely, I must say that I was further rather negatively surprised, in fact disappointed, because this law must be aligned with the eight European Union regulations published between 1989 and 1999. This means that we need to reconcile less than a year old law with regulations that are 5 to 15 years old. The two Regulations are from 1989, two from 1990 and one from 1993, 1994 and 1995. True, most of them refer to agriculture, but I must say that the time limit is so long and that it is such a thing of age that it is easily arranged in the adopted law last year. I must say that it seems very incomprehensible to me that we could not have done this unsolicited work before we had significantly more time and significantly less pressure, and we could have also devoted ourselves to the law if the proposaler correctly informed us and made us aware of it. Now, however, both the government and the Members and the professional service of the National Assembly are burdened with no need at all. Due to the impossible conditions for work in recent months and the forced inclusion of items on the Committee's agenda, members from the Slovenian Democratic Party have obstructed this point on the Committee and have not prepared any additions. However, it can be seen that more than half of all 23 articles of the text received reconstruction and correction, which shows that the government and the ministry are far more fragile and that the wise opposition is not always to blame for the delays and the number of amendments, as it is the most work that it is doing to itself and its supporters, which it rules itself. Like I said, we'll support the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you. No one will present the position of Liberal Democracy. The position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Your Honors are here! Allow me to continue where my colleague Tanko ended up before me. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted a law on ionising radiation and nuclear safety on a proposal from the same Ministry last year. In the introductory part of the bill, i.e. the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, this same motioner gives us, as one of the arguments why the law should be adopted in a reduced procedure, a number of regulations, mainly on the part of the world or various worlds from different areas. All these Regulations date back to 1989, 1990, 1993, 1994, 1995 and last from 1999. Now I am asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia first of all about the meaning of its existence, if in 2003 it gives us a basic law and in 2003 it does not comply with a regulation that is 10 years old, but, of course, half a year later, it is aware that it has forgotten to do so. Have you forgotten or is there something else in the background, of course? But given that it is our assessment, at least as regards the content of the law, especially technical changes, this indicates the inability of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the campaign work of the Ministry. The second part of which I would like to touch on this point, in addition to the emphasis that it is not essentially a matter of change of content, is, after our assessment, mainly technical or editorial corrections, which is also indicated by the amendments adopted on the home working body, so I would like to point out one point. The above-mentioned law before us has been dealt with by the State Assembly Infrastructure Committee. This law dealt with the working body of the State Council, dealt with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and dealt with the legislative and legal service. Despite the fact that we adopted this same law in 2003, since the government did not then supplement it with ten years of old regulations, we are meeting with it today, while a half an hour ago this National Assembly rejected the possibility of discussing another important law, namely compliance, or when government parties rejected the possibility of another important law being discussed. All I wanted to do was list the institutions that were involved in this country with editorial corrections. We have found that editorial corrections were carried out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council, the Legislative Service and, ultimately, the National Assembly. Within the framework of the National Assembly, the working body, within the framework of the State Council, the working body and the plenary session. This National Assembly, however, cancels that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, probably also the National Assembly or the State Council and the National Assembly - because you previously voted negatively - would deal with one, I believe, of the most important content within this Sectoral Ministry, that is, a nuclear power plant, despite clear behaviour, yesterday's proven behaviour that things do not take place in accordance with the Interstate Treaty. Despite the fact that we know what the experience of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia with regard to Krske was. And, of course, I am interested or not, because I know the purpose of this national assembly anyway. I sincerely hope only that the Members of the ruling parties, who have just rejected the actual content of the conversation, are now engaged, not just us, but all of these institutions, which I have previously listed, with a proposal for a law that is purely technical in nature. We will not oppose the law in the national party, because it is of course pointless to oppose editorial corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you, Vice President. When it comes, of course, to the implementation of European Union law into our domestic legal order, to the dilemma of whether the novelty is necessary, of course, it is not. It is only noted that this is the case and that the amendment or addition proposed does not go against an already-running regime which is good, which may also be a model high-a-vis of our European partners and which is not necessarily replaced. With the novelry ahead of us, we are undoubtedly entering the European regulation on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, improving our own regime and increasing the guarantees of that security. As we know, it is in particular the issue of the import and export of radioactive substances and waste, which is otherwise regulated between the members of the European Union, as is the case with consignments of this substance from or to non-member countries. With a novelty, we allow the direct application of the Council Regulation of the European Union, which regulates these matters and equally the seven other regulations of the Commission and the Council of the EU in the handling of food, feed and agricultural products which are radioactively contaminated in the event of nuclear or other accidents causing radiological contamination. There was a dilemma, why not just now and not before. Various interpretations of the legal profession have also been in force before, whether or not this Regulation could have been applied directly. Finally, this dilemma is now over and that is why we have a novelty ahead of us. We support the proposal to amend and supplement the law on protection in ionising radiation and nuclear safety in the United Nations Group. On the board, I also reminded the ministry of a matter which this law does not regulate, but we will have to re-re-re-think it sooner or later. It is a question of control over nuclear facilities that are occasionally stationed in our territory and which, of course, we do not have a systemic approach. We are thinking of occasional visits to nuclear-powered and nuclear-weapon-powered ships, which undoubtedly pose a potential danger. If, of course, we have allowed such a visit with the novelty of the maritime code, it would be good not to be satisfied with the answer that we trust our nuclear visitors, but to establish a system that will allow our sovereign right to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. That way we can go to the vote. Mr. Tanko, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u30	As I have said, I will support this law, but I must say that in the case of this law it is extraordinary, I can say what is the negligence of the government, because it is unacceptable that five before the 12th, last minute, we are meeting with the correction and incorporation of novelties into the new law, and we are aligning this with the regulations of the European Union, which are between 5 and 15 years old. That's unacceptable. Secondly, something with these procedures in the National Assembly is not right, and it also shows that even on such an extraordinary technical matter as the incorporation has been determined under these Regulations, which have been tabled under the 23 articles of the 12 amendments. In short, this is totally unacceptable. And it is obvious that both government coordination and legal services within the department simply do not work. This is how we Members face completely trivial issues in dealing with these laws and then later introduce them, discuss them and waste time. This is a waste of time. When it was time, we didn't accept these things. I mentioned earlier that there is something similar in criminal provisions. The Act on Offences was passed six months before this law, and no one felt it necessary to enforce the provisions laid down there in the laws we adopted. And one important chapter, 15% of the articles, relates to the regulation of criminal provisions. The procedure we have been using in the National Assembly lately is absolutely impossible. I'm sure we can't make good laws this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE - CONSTRUCTION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE MORNING LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Minister Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you, Vice President. This proposal also relates to the entry into the European Union, where it is necessary to redefine the legal person established in the Republic of Slovenia or to transform this dictatorship into a legal person established in the territory of the European Union and also to provide that mining rights can be transferred to a natural person who has not only permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia but also in the territory of the European Union. This is the technical part of the alignment with the European acquis. In addition, there are two other developments in the draft law that are not related to May 1. One is the harmonisation of the provisions on membership in the Engineering Chamber. This part of the law is needed because, from 1.1.2003, the building law entered into force and this had to be aligned with that law. And another small change is a provision, a package of articles that discusses new inspection powers that allow, for example, for the enforcement of a measure in the case of black sandstones and quarrying, so that the inspection can work more effectively. These are three sets of news brought by this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u34	Thank you. At its 55th meeting, on 19.4., the Infrastructure Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131, the Infrastructure Committee held discussions and votes on individual articles and adopted a series of amendments proposed by counterpart Miran Jerič. In addition, he accepted his amendment to Article 28. At the end of the discussion, the Committee also adopted all the articles of the law and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, the New Slovenia Group, Mr Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues. In Novi Slovenije we obstructed the meeting of the committee at which this law was dealt with. We simply do not agree that such important decisions are made in such a manner and under such a procedure, such as this Act amending and supplementing the Mining Act. For this reason, we did not wish to participate in the committee under such conditions. In this plenary session, however, I would like to express the opinion of New Slovenia before this law. In short, I would say that the good parts of the content of this law are not in any way in line with European Union legislation, but rather, I would say, a more interesting legalisation of certain rights in this field, which are enjoyed by certain individuals in this country. Such a chapter in this law is certainly a chapter on offences and inspection tasks. If I touch this content at Unit 24, where the penalty is prescribed, if the legal person is digging up a grammose or a sand digger in black, the inspection service can punish it with a million to 1.5 million. I would like to point out that these penalties are extremely nice compared to some of the penalties we have imposed in agricultural legislation. The first sentence is a million or a million five hundred, but if that offence repeats itself, then every further offense pays 100,000 tolars. It is said that the law actually imposes on someone who has already paid one million for the offence committed, then repeats it, up to seven times this first sentence, to say 70 times the same offence can be repeated, but if the inspector decides to punish him with 1.5 million, then this offence can be repeated 105 times. And each pays 100,000 tolars, and of course takes so much and so much gramosome out of a particular lot. I think that this story from the past, all known and such a solution as this law brings, is, of course, totally inappropriate. It is written on the skin of certain lobbyes in this country, and I regret to find that everyone who makes such decisions is involved in this in some way. The solution in Article 6 is also unclear as to the fact that if construction materials are excavated to be used simultaneously for construction, under the conditions laid down in the building permit. We wonder why we have not written in this law at the end of these conditions. Why do we allow some bureaucracy in the building permit to decide where construction material will be used, which is taken away from a certain plot in the construction of a building? I say this from experience, for example, when they built a golf course near Ptuj, investors dug up a golf course, sold it to Darsa, and built a road at a completely different location with that gramoze. Why did it go? At the same time that they were doing this construction work, they served with grammes and, of course, the country did not benefit from it. And in this law, in Article 6, this is actually exactly what it says. Also, the responsibility of the landowner who discovers that a black sandstone is taking place on his plot, on his land, or he is even involved in this act, which is most often in practice, is sanctioned by this law with 100,000 tolars. One hundred thousand tolars is paid by someone who simply decides and digs up on their lot, I don't know, 1000, 2000 or even thousands of cubic meters of grammose and then sells this gramoze at high prices. And at the same time, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He's not saving himself. [[...]] I'll finish right away because my time is up. The solutions found in this law are, to put it mildly, strange. We will not support them in Novi Slovenija because there are many problems in this area in the Republic of Slovenia and if they are sanctioned by such fines as are listed here, with 100,000 tolars, then we are convinced that this is not possible to resolve them in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Franz Lenko, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! The adoption of the law will allow faster access to licenses for certain mining works, especially when drilling deep wells. In the DeSUS Group, however, we find it difficult to accept the fact that the ownership of the land is more responsible if the owner finds that mining works are carried out on its land for the purpose of exploration or exploitation of mineral raw materials for which he has not given the operator any consent to establish a mining right procedure. We ask ourselves, what if the owner does not detect research and exploitation and no inspection is introduced. In such a case, the owner of the land shall be considered as the operator of mining works in the exploration or exploitation of mineral raw materials. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the owner of the land bears too much responsibility. In theory, the landowner may go on vacation and the shallower rotates the ground at a depth of 30 metres, preferably on land that the owner does not visit every day, begins with all the necessary activities related to the search; when it comes from the vacation and finds that mining works are carried out on his land, he becomes the owner of the land of mining works. At least this is how we in the DeSUS Group understand the new Article 37a. In the DeSUS Group, we are asked the question of the appropriateness or meaning of the fines set for infringement of individual provisions of the law. Regardless of the fact that the fines are aligned with the law on offences and that they are called fines and not monetary penalties, they approach precisely that level. But the problem isn't just about this law. In this law, however, we have been reconfirmed for not distinguishing between these two terms. However, we are very pleased with the provisions of Article 32 of the Law, which provides additional resources for the completion of the programme for the rehabilitation of wells and abandoned mining facilities by Nafta Lendava for its ecological and technological rehabilitation in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government, for reasons of amendments and additions to the law, states that changes are essential for the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, which in its legal order requires the free movement of goods and services within the Member States of the European Union. The amendments therefore aim to remove obstacles to the free provision of services on the European Union single market, which should also address the shortcomings of the existing law, which does not allow foreign start-ups under the same conditions as domestic ones. Despite the fact that laws sometimes seem to be in a hurry to enter the European Union and sometimes under-prepared, which is certainly the case with many comments from the legislative and legal services, but not only to this law, we will support the proposal, but we have pointed out some inconsistencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Our Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group disagrees with this way of adopting ad hoc laws, five minutes before twelve or even five seconds before twelve, even with regard to the entry into the European Community. We are protesting this type of work and wondering whether anyone can see in this country in any way, in what way we, five minutes before the twelfth, are adopting a whole set of very important laws that could long ago have been dealt with in the National Assembly and we wonder why such a rape of the National Assembly could not simply be thoroughly examined and processed. As a result, of course, there are major inconsistencies, bad solutions, and I firmly believe that a whole series of new amendments and new corrections will need to be made in the future after 1 May 2004, and that I am not talking about all the consequences that will result from such an haste. One of these laws is such that it can be prepared substantially earlier. While the provisions of this law are appropriate or acceptable to our party in certain formulations or in some proposals, to our group. However, there are some things that we cannot agree with, so it is questionable that we somehow agree to this law on our part. We are also wondering how some of the things that are being amended by this proposal of the law have been regulated so far, if it is now found that there have been no adequate records, that there are some minor corrections that will eliminate certain illogicalities in obtaining certain permits and so on, why a number of solutions have not been settled in time to date, and where is such a need to introduce these new guidelines or new provisions? The fact is, in the field of mining in Slovenia, there is an extremely large anarchy. That's definitely what it's been like so far. In recent years, there have been a lot of interventions in space, a lot of usurpation of space, crimes over space, and no sanctions have been taken. But if so, those who are the least guilty or who are the greatest poor in all of this, that is, owners of certain lands, who have often been pressured by local communities or individuals or by anyone who has allowed anything to happen on their land. Today, they are before a court of law, in the face of heavy lawsuits, where the judge also wants to punish them with ten million fines. These are mostly poor agricultural owners who are threatened by this collapse. I firmly believe that these things would be necessary, as well as our Group of Members, to resolve somehow differently, that what has been done for a period of time as an offence, which was not sufficiently accurate and timely enough by the inspection and also by all other relevant institutions, has been dealt with in order to resolve these matters properly. Let us remind ourselves of one solution that is completely incorrect and inappropriate and that no one has noticed. In Article 7, when you wrote in paragraph 2, the landowner will be punished or responsible for carrying out certain mining works on his land, if he does not notice, and it will be considered that he, the landowner, will actually carry out some mining work or research if he does not report this inspection. It's absurdity over absurdity. How can such a thing ever be written into a marriage? If someone, some owner, also has his own land, 10, 20, 50 kilometers away, it also happens to have so far of his land, and someone there will start to explore or work, and we will punish the one who owns the land. This is unacceptable, please. How can you write something like that into a marriage? And because of this provision, if not for any other reason, and this article is not an amendment at all and cannot be resolved, it is precisely because of this article that it is questionable whether we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jerič, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The proposed amendments and additions to the Mining Act will allow faster mining licences for certain works to be obtained in conjunction with the adopted law on the regulation of premises and building laws. At the same time, this proposal accelerates and simplifies certain procedures for obtaining such permits. It also seeks to achieve or remove the restriction on illicit extraction of mineral raw materials by supplementing the law. At the same time, amendments to the Act are further aligned with the acquis of the European Union, especially in the area of free movement of services, labour and international agreements. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written in explanation of this law, as well as in the summary of the Liberal Democracy, that the novelties are two, and both are very positive. And that in the law, in such a form that no one, logically, could oppose him. Firstly, in the form of a smaller administration and thus easier to obtain permits to perform such works. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia went even so far as to write in its introduction to the law that this law would also accelerate the development of settlements. So, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the conviction of the parliamentary group that spoke before me, the law had only two very positive objectives; hence, the reduction of administration and the development of settlements in our country. But I'm sorry that we're acting like we have different laws. For the fact is that these two objectives, as defined by the government and the largest parliamentary group, are not to be traced anywhere in the content of this law. To talk about the consequences of the adoption of this law of settlements seems ridiculous to me, to say the least. As in the Group of Members, we find some other articles to be funny. Let me touch something. When we talk about the criminal provisions that some speakers have already set before me, not government speakers, but members from the opposition, we can see that it is indeed a matter of pursuing a selective aim of punishment, whether it be entrepreneurs of individuals or natural persons. And this selectivity is in my opinion or assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in favour of certain castes or lobbyes. And that's the first reason we can't support this marriage. The law, on the one hand - I stress, on the one hand - is such a nice punishment that they increase or lead to some kind of criminal or illegal act. To confirm my words in the Rapporteur, that is to say, in the material submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a fundamental objective, we can see the very interesting dictatorship that I will quote: "It is also desirable," so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proponent of the material, "with the addition of the law," so this is the word we are now dealing with, "to reach a limit on the extent of illegal extraction of mineral raw materials." According to our assessment, if the government's aim is to mitigate illegal activity, of course this is at odds with the rule of law. The main task of the state would be to prevent not to soften it. It is true, however, that the content of this law cannot prevent this because of criminal sanctions as defined in the content of the government proposal. We cannot prevent this because, according to my assessment of a certain segment of people who do this type of work, we will give, with the tasks and content defined by the law, only a green light to make this illegal work worthwhile because the penalties are designed for their benefit. On the other hand, I would like to touch the article that some have already spoken about before me, which is the new 37a. an article which, according to our assessment, is obviously meant to be a joke. Unfortunately, however, he is a joke in the legislative process. The speaker in front of me quoted him in part. I'll give him the whole thing. "If the landowner finds that mining works are carried out on his land in order to investigate the exploitation of mineral raw materials for which he has not given any consent to the operator" - the emphasis is that no agreement has been given to the operator - "to initiate the procedure for obtaining mining rights as required by Article 33 of this Law, he shall immediately inform the mining service." Well, none of the first paragraph says it's illegal, but that the owner has to inform someone. The one who does - so, nothing about the contractor. On the other hand, the second paragraph is very interesting. If the landowner does not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, it shall be stated or determined that the landowner is to be considered as an operator. What does that mean? The speaker in front of me gave an explanation or showed a simulation of what it was like to have someone on vacation. Another speaker gave what if the landowner was 30 or more miles away. And I'll give you, what if he owns the land, some natural person -- the case -- in the hospital for three months. In the meantime, an independent entrepreneur begins to carry out mining work in his field. He what he will be - this man who has been in the hospital will be responsible and will, according to the proposal of the Liberal Democracy, be the one who will be punished because he will be considered to be carrying out these mining works. I'm sorry, but this is totally unacceptable for the National Party and we cannot support this kind of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Grošelj, United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will fully support the law or amendment of the law. We would also like to add, of course, that the provisions of the law so far have been in line with the European Union's legal order at that time. This is why, of course, the law in force also contained certain provisions, particularly those relating to the 39th and the 41st section of the Act, which includes as a condition for obtaining this concession right, this is mining rights, by registering the legal entity of the Republic of Slovenia. Before entering the European Union and, of course, if this provision were to continue to be in force, it is also noted, following the statement in this amendment, that this would also violate Article 43 of the European Treaty on the Right to Establish Enterprises under the same conditions for all. This, of course, would somehow try to bring together two other laws, which were also adopted in the past year: it was also about amending the building law and also the law on the regulation of premises, as well as the amendment of this law. We are confident that this will also ensure that faster or faster production is allowed for some mining work, especially when drilling deep wells. We can note from the proposed amendment that this will also simplify and accelerate certain procedures and eliminate illogicality in obtaining certain permits. Only a few words can be said as far as the individual provisions are concerned. We believe that it is also appropriately defined in Article 4, where the government also undertakes to be a legal or natural person who will carry out a profitable activity established within the European Union or a national of a Member State, with an EU role addressed to the government, which will, of course, be interested in researching or exploiting mineral raw materials, that the government should also start the procedure for issuing a concession act within 120 days of the date on which the application was accepted. Well, as far as Article 5 is concerned, I think that this supplement also correctly defines that mining rights can only be transferred with the consent of the Government to legal or natural persons under certain conditions, because, last but not least, as the right to acquire is, of course, the right to transfer them to the following persons. We also think it's appropriate. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] due to the specificisation also referred to in Article 5 that mining rights may not be sold or leased, of course because, in this case, a bankruptcy has been committed against the holder of mining rights under the law governing bankruptcy and the mining right may also be transferred to the acquirer, who has taken over property or real rights from the holder of mining rights, the debtor. [[..]] As far as the ownership of the landowner is concerned, of course, we understand Article 7 by essentially protecting the landowner. Of course, it is also possible for him to find out that he has been trespassing on his land and that mining works are also carried out, of course it is normal, if we can call it that he is obliged to notify the mining inspection immediately, because in this case, of course, this second paragraph is also necessary, because, of course, he also obliges the owner to say that, if he does not follow the provisions, what he knows is of course going on, then it can clearly be considered that this is also done by his consent. We have a few thoughts, if we can call it that, even in Article 32, I am talking about the rehabilitation of gardening and the abandonment of mining facilities in these cases where this ecological and technological rehabilitation of the oil of Lendava needs to be regulated by law, because this has now been resolved in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget, but we have some serious concerns. Of course, with what I have said, we will fully support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. Excuse me? Here's Mr. Kelemina, procedurally, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u48	Yes, procedurally. Before discussing the articles or the law itself, our Group predicts that it will table or announce an amendment and will be tabled at any time to Article 25, where we propose that it be deleted in the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Mr. Kelemina, excuse me! Too late. Unfortunately, the rules of procedure must be respected. The debate was not open, the views of the groups were expressed, the amendments were not tabled, nothing was done until the beginning of the point. We are now just before the vote in practice, and no more amendments can be tabled here. I'm sorry, but that's what the rules of procedure set out, and it's my duty to stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u50	I agree. Then let a very bad solution be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thanks for understanding. So, in the third reading of the amendments, it's not possible to invest, so we're going to make a decision about the law, as I said before. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their voice? Mr Sok, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Pece, in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps it is a shame that we will adopt this law in the form proposed. Several articles in this law are extremely questionable. One of these I have already mentioned is the sanctioning of the repetition of one and the same offence. Once again, if someone who is a legal person has done a black dig and the inspector has punished him with one million or 1.5 million, then this offence is repeated and punished every time with 100,000 tolars. So, it's actually an inducement to say that if he's already been punished once, he's going to repeat it for 100,000 tolars. And every time he takes so many and so many thousand cubic pounds of grammosis, he pays those 100,000 fines. This is a literal repetition of one and the same offense. Another issue, which we are also principles in the introductory debate, is the responsibility of the landowner. This Article 37a is not well-saved. You need to know that some owners don't even know they own the land. They don't know. And if that's true, then because he didn't announce the agrarian community, let's say, and so on, because they're not covered by the land book, they don't know they're owners, and then he's guilty and he's guilty. In addition, I would like to remind you that many times the land is owned by the State. Does this apply to the country? Will she then punish herself because she did not announce that there was some sort of grammatical eruption on her land? So the article, as it was written down, is not well-saved. Unfortunately, however, you say that this is a compliance with European Union legislation. This, of course, is no compliance with the legislation, as such irregular legislation, I hope to say that they do not know in the European Union. Such legislation is known only by our country and our Ministry of Environment and Space, which rapes us with such laws, and then every so long comes to the National Assembly with a change. I'm just finishing up. In our Group of Members - on behalf of the Group of Members - I wanted to explain this - such a law as is before us cannot be supported and we will vote decisively against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Thank you. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law myself, because of some of the articles that have been extensively discussed here, which mean that the law will incorporate such solutions that will actually allow the illegal exploitation of natural goods, mining goods, in favour of a caste, as has been said here. I think it is clear that this is a 'liberal-united caste' which, in fact, at the expense of referring to European guidelines, to European legislation, has adapted legislation so that in the next four, five years, even if it is not elected, it will be able to benefit greatly from all that it has incorporated into legislation for its own good. Look, you've appointed the Director of Police for five years, the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Supervisory Commission, and that's all one conglomerate of what is systematically done here. You have cemented the supervisory institutions for a further period, and here in the law are integrated solutions that enable the enrichment, exploitation of natural goods without real sanctions. These sanctions, as pointed out, are miserable and disproportionate compared to sanctions against a farmer in another law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pache. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. So one of the goals he sees in this National Assembly is government alone, Liberal Democracy and the United List. The fact is that these will not be the real consequences of this law. For to say that we adopt law under the pretext of administrative pardons and the development of settlements is, of course, quite meaningless and misleading. In fact, the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has determined or stated what the aim of the law is - to mitigate illegal activity. The emphasis is on "merit," not "prevent". And as long as we have a government of the Republic of Slovenia that does not seek to prevent some illegal, illegal act, such laws are good. In the Slovenian Party, we have always argued that if we know about an illegal or I apologize for an illegal act, it must be prevented and not softened. But of course, people unfortunately chose, in my opinion, they didn't know, but a government that doesn't try to prevent this illegal act. Secondly, the law also introduces a new system of punishment, not a system of punishment in terms of prevention, but a system of punishment, unfortunately, in terms of reward. The system of punishment, as introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore promotes crimes for individuals in our society. This is completely marred by sound logic and, by principles, by the rule of law or by the pleasure of living in our society. And there's also the last clue that we're referring to ministers and all those you're going to support in the National Party. This is the responsibility of the landowner in the new 37a. Article 1(2) To say that the responsibility or acquittal for a particular offence is on the part of the owner, but when the owner does not even know what is happening on his land, of course, it is completely irrelevant to our assessment. We appeal that the National Assembly does not accept this law, and we will also oppose this law in the National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word, to explain their voice? Mr. Kelemina. Please. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Respectable. My assessment is that, under such conditions and with such haste and with such rape of the National Assembly, it is not possible to adopt good legislation, but the worst part is that there is simply no willingness or possibility in this agony, so that someone can explain how certain things can be imagined, how they can be solved in practice. Indeed, we firmly believe that, in the wake of the implementation of this law and this proposal, when it is adopted, much trouble and at least, it would be right to go into a new amendment immediately after the adoption of this law and to re-examine certain things and propose them as a change - but regardless of such impossibility to influence changes and also misunderstandings on the other hand, which have virtually all the data at our disposal, all the information, as well as the professionally qualified people who might be able to detect all the problems that arise in society in a timely manner, and that they would also be adequately addressed, precisely because of such inadequacy, I will not support the inconsistencies of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this law on the grounds that it establishes at least a certain order, aligns penalties with the law on offences, and that it provides a legal basis for what we had at the time of the adoption of the 2004 and 2005 budget gives the legal basis for the further rehabilitation of oil wells in Prekmurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Thank you. Can we end now with explanations of vote? Not yet. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Well, I didn't mean to call, but I was glad to hear from the biggest government party representative that he said why he would support it. And this is because it creates a certain order; it is said that there is now no order - this is a great recognition, so that they should be counted as positive, and that it establishes a certain order. That is to say, we will still have no order, there will still be certain holes, whole segments that will not be covered, which will not be controlled in any way or other, and will still be able to do as happy as they will be, and we will all be able to say: we have a bad marriage, because it is a bad law and there is nothing to be done. A new law will have to be changed. So in this sense, I consider this to be a positive recognition, but unfortunately then I cannot support it either, because it is clearly not what we would like it to be, and as the proponents probably thought so - I also imagine that the proponents probably intended to do so - but, unfortunately, it turned out that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you. Now can we go to the vote? Yes, you can. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the law, of course. Of the 54 present, 40 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction of Objects Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to a government representative. Will this be the minister? Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The bill brings three substantive news. The first novelty follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has committed us to having to do so by 10 April at the latest - this date has passed, but the government has sent the bill to Parliament in due time - to define the criteria for determining membership, the intention of spending membership and the control of its consumption in the Slovenian Engineering Chamber. This is, in short, one of the reasons for being examined after a reduced procedure, which is directly based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when it comes to compliance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. Another novelty is the harmonisation of the conditions for the production of project documentation with European regulations and the approximation of the procedures for the acquisition of project conditions, consents and the issuance of usable licences, as well as the arrangements relating to both chambers and inspection, as well as certain other provisions under European rules. In short, there are some new developments that are also related to May 1st, i.e. the entry into the European Union. Above all, these are the most important provisions on the freeing up of the market for design services. However, the third novelty, which is not related to the Constitutional Court’s decision or to May 1st, is the transitional provisions of the current law or the upgrading of transitional provisions of the current law relating to the award of compensation for the use of building land. This series of novels follows the commitment of you, honourable Members and Members, who, when considering Mr Rokavac's proposal for a law that had already amended the building law for this very purpose, committed us to arrange this in a novel that was being prepared at the time. There is likely to be more discussion on individual articles when considering the amendments tabled by Articles 1, 19, 31 and 32, these four articles are being amended. The amendment to Article 1 of the three groups of Members is more editorial in nature and we support it. However, we will present our position on the amendments to the SDS at the 19th and then on the series of amendments to the 31st and 32nd paragraphs later, in the consideration of individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Who will report on behalf of this committee? Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you. At its meeting on 15.4.2004, the Infrastructural Committee carried out a review of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Act. The government has proposed that the law be dealt with in a simplified manner. The College of the President of the National Assembly also decided that the proposal for a law should be examined following a reduced procedure. The National Assembly sent a proposal for a law to the mayors of municipalities and municipalities up to and including 12.4.2004. We received no opinion from the mayors within the deadline and received comments from the municipalities of Slovenia of 14.4.2004. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the legislature, which in its opinion drew attention to some of the inconsistencies of the law. The discussion focused on the proposed amendment to Article 1 of the law proposing a mandatory organisation of the public tender for those facilities and facilities for which the public tender provides for a spatial act for which other rules provide for that obligation, but only if their estimated value exceeds a certain value and is required to be published in the Official Journal has been published by the European Community. The Committee drafted an amendment to Article 1 of the bill, which ensures that the public tender is also implemented for transport infrastructure facilities and installations, pipelines, communication network, energy water and facilities relevant to the defence of the State and facilities intended to carry out security, customs and inspection controls at border crossings when these facilities affect the change and appearance of the country. The members of the Committee also considered that the proposed penalties in Article 148 of the proposal for a building law were too high in the case of the establishment of the method of execution and that they should be reduced reasonably. The discussion on Article 31 and Article 32 of the Law was held in terms of resolving the issues relating to the adoption of local community decisions on the payment of compensation for the use of building land and the projected additional increase in own remuneration income by 25% and 50% respectively. In view of the fact that 11 municipalities have not yet harmonised the decrees, they proposed that the deadline for harmonisation should be extended until 31 July. They also considered that further examination of the provisions of Article 218, paragraph 4, of the Law on the construction of buildings relating to the time limit for the harmonisation of the decrees and the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia and the new paragraph 5 of Article 31 of this Act should be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly. In Article 32 of the Law, the members of the Committee considered that further consideration should be given to Article 218.b, which relates to the simultaneous payment of compensation for the use of the built-in building plot and the non-built building plot, for land when municipal equipment is deemed to be provided. Following the adoption of its amendments and amendments to the qualified applicants, the Committee adopted all the articles and proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr Sok, Nova Slovenija has the floor first. Oh, it will be Mr. Mamić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u68	I welcome all present, even though we are not at this point in time. We have thoroughly corrected the completion of the building law that we are dealing with two years ago, but as with every law, there is always something inconsequential, and in this case it is so called a higher force that we have to add certain things or change them. In the New Slovenia Group, we were well aware of what this law meant, so we prepared well for it and also made our contribution. That's what I'm talking about two years ago. At that time, my 33 were accepted and there was a miracle for the opposition MP. Of course, my name is not listed anywhere, because technology allows it to be done like that, it is carried out, but the important thing is that the amendments are accepted and I am very pleased, still proud of it today. This has proved that the opposition is always ready to help the government and the state, so that the laws in this country are prepared and adopted. Unfortunately, many times this opposition is disabled - I know why. The construction law, which, of course, is dealt with by a rapid procedure, was needed for repairs due to non-compliance with Article 147 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as stipulated by the Constitutional Court’s decision. This is the way and conditions of financing the Chamber of Architecture in Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia or the criterion for determining membership, instead of eliminating the professional chamber. The second reason was the coordination of some existing decisions in the building law with the conditions of the so-called Euro Architect, which apply to the Member States of the European Union, which will also be Slovenia in 10 days in this family. And the third reason is the rejection of the proposal by Mr Rokavac concerning 217 [[?]] Article of this Law, which was rejected by the Government and made by itself. On the Infrastructure Committee, we have processed the amendments tabled, which we believe are addressing at least the global requirements that have been raised. We have tabled several amendments ourselves in New Slovenia and thus wanted to contribute to better solutions to complement this law. One of our amendments was adopted, most of them were irrelevant, because the other amendments were of the same nature, in substance, some were rejected, I would say, again as usual. I regret that there was no Article 2 in the open articles of this Act which deals with the definitions of terms which also concern these repairs, as well as Articles 92, 108 and 110 of the existing law, which could be richer than the law itself. In particular, Article 2, if it were open, would add one more thing, let's say, specifically, if I were talking about toll stations, so that they don't count among demanding objects, it's my absurdity - it is now what it is. I'm sure we'd make quite a few amendments on our side if those points were open, but if they weren't possible, we can't. Of course I'm not gonna talk about these things because it doesn't make sense. So such proposals of the law, as before us today, will not be rejected in our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the building law, which, of course, deals mainly with two sets of issues: one issue is compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, and the other issue is mainly related to the implementation of the provisions of Article 218 or more specifically the issues which, of course, have arisen from the adopted law with the non-walled building land, and, of course, also with the amount of compensation for the use of building land for concrete land in this regard. The solutions before us in Article 31 are unacceptable. Indeed, it is unacceptable for the legislator, on 21 April, to provide that, of course, the municipalities which, in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, have in due time aligned the decision on compensation for the use of building land and, of course, the date of 31 March 2004 has been recorded in due time with the provisions of this Act, of course, adopted a decree. I think it is inconceivable that the National Assembly determines by what time was the timely adoption of the decisions on compensation for the use of building land in municipalities, including, of course, unbuilt building land, with a deadline which, of course, had already expired at the time of the adoption of this decree. Indeed, it must be pointed out, of course, that the previous period of six months after the entry into force of the law was too short and that the majority of the municipalities could not actually implement it. The second question is raised by the so-called penalty in paragraphs 6 and 7. In fact, by 31 March of this year, the municipalities, which have not yet been set up to date, have not adopted these decisions and are not submitting data to the competent tax authority for a refund, have further increased the calculation of their own revenue by 25%. Well, these are solutions that are actually unacceptable in marriage. However, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to draw attention to another issue which I will probably also try to explain more thoroughly in the debate itself at the time of the amendments tabled. It is a key question that the spatial plans of the municipalities are non-life and that these plans were drawn and planned in many ways 20 years ago. In these cases, however, I think it is inappropriate for the State to set such short deadlines or it is inappropriate for the State to force the municipality to provide additional revenue this year. This is the basic interest of each municipality, each local community in particular, in trying to obtain as much of its own revenue as possible within the given options. However, it is not the duty of the State and the legislator to make it conditional on the municipalities to take these solutions so quickly in an area that is so sensitive. In short, we expect some amendments to be adopted in the parliamentary group after the final hearing. Once we have the amendments, we'll explain it in more detail. And only on such a basis could this bill be a suitable basis for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, which will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone! We have barely a good year in use of the Construction Act, and we are already meeting with the Law Amendment, which in some ways shows that we are dealing more with numerology, more with quantification than with quality in these procedures. If we were to judge what would make sense to accept it would also be very useful to correct the law on the regulation of space, because procedures for the adoption of spatial acts are still quite long, non-life-like and even sometimes quite unpleasant, mainly due to mandatory co-legislators, who usually insist on their solutions, but also do not have regulated mandatory starting points. I must say that as far as the building law is concerned, most of the provisions proposed by the government are in place in order to improve the law, this must be recognised. However, I must say that we do not agree with certain things in our Group of Members. One of the areas we disagree with is the extremely high penalties proposed by the Government for interventions to the premises. And I must say that these penalties are not in line with the actual situation, with the possibilities of society and are not aimed at sanctioning offenders and restoring the situation, but rather at destroying individuals and companies or private entrepreneurs. The penalties must, in our opinion, be such as to be educational, appropriate to the situation and the severity of the offence. We cannot agree that the sentence for a barracks belonging to unsolicited buildings, worth 500 000 tolars, may be extremely high to 10 million and that the penalty may be imposed nine more times; in short, the sentence is enormously higher than the value of the facility and disproportionate to the value of the intervention. In short, we propose that these penalties be brought into a more acceptable framework, and here we have also proposed an amendment. The second set, however, relates to compensation for the use of building land for the building and building land. We are of the opinion that there is a need to reconsider in this area and that it is possible, in this case, that things should be arranged differently as they are currently written and also as proposed with some amendments. I think it is worth considering the proposal made by colleague Kelemin on the Committee to delete this chapter on compensation. For this compensation to all the municipalities receiving financial compensation means nothing at all. It only brings them extra work and additional costs, and the state forces these municipalities, including this provision, that those in the areas at risk - these are, for example, 90% of municipalities - that forcing money from the pockets of so poor people and thus doing exclusively services to the state, because it does not need to be channelled into financial compensation. This forces the people of poor areas to finance the operation of also poor municipalities, while rich municipalities, which are 10%, do not need these compensations, do not go into the quota of financial compensation, because they have the same default and are the compensations they collect from this title only for the financing of superstandard. This creates additional differences in the development of individual areas. Moreover, the fact is that these start-up deficits cannot be compensated by any compensation, no co-financing, with no incentives [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That the government will see to it that it manages its own resources. In short, I suggest you support these three amendments that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will not be heard as I see it. Will anyone be in the name of Liberal Democracy? [[He won't.]] The position of the United Nations Group of Members will be presented by Mr Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. There are many reasons, as we have seen, for interfering with the existing building law or for changes and additions. The Constitutional Court has warned us that the provisions of the current law governing compulsory membership in the Chambers, in particular for architecture and space and engineering, are inconsistent with the Constitution. The European Union has given us a series of harmonisations, which are also a major improvement in the existing regime, both because of the issue of professional qualifications in the field of architecture and in order to speed up the process with the appropriate legal certainty of designers and co-operators when it comes to obtaining project conditions and consensus, in order to allow for faster implementation of technical checks and the issuance of usable permits. And last but not least to improve inspection control itself. We know that the amendment also improves the arrangements for compensation for the use of building land, in particular through the procedures for obtaining data on real estates or on land parcels on which the buildings are located. Without this, we know that the expected property tax cannot be implemented. We therefore support the proposed law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We also support the extension of the deadline for the delivery of data, and we will support all the amendments proposed by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to the second reading. This is for discussion on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. Dear colleagues, we have two parts of these amendments. First of all, we have an amendment on one sheet of paper, which is the SDS amendment, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 1. And then we have a review of the amendments on three sides, date 21.4.2004, so it's clear how and by what order we're going to go. We will first discuss the amendments to Article 1. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment; first, this is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1 and the amendment of the DeSUS, the LDS and the United Kingdom, also to Article 1. So, I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I don't think it's right that we regulate the field of public procurement in each of the laws, in every special law in particular. We have not recently adopted a law on public procurement, I think it was published, adopted in February and there we have laid down in Article 1 of the regulation of the law. And in Article 1, it reads literally: "This law sets out the mandatory conduct of contracting authorities and tenderers in the procurement of goods, the award of works and the procurement of services. This Act also lays down the mandatory conduct of contracting authorities and tenderers in the field of procurement of goods, the provision of construction and the procurement of water, energy and telecommunications services. This law provides for a way of managing the statistics on the award of public contracts. This law provides for jurisdiction and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for public procurement and this law also lays down exceptions to the award of public contracts. [[...]] In short, the Public Procurement Act is comprehensive enough to solve everything and regulate everything that can happen in the field of public procurement. And I don't think it's appropriate that in some other law, the building law, we do things differently than the public procurement law. And it is unacceptable that some special solutions, to pressure I do not know who, are introduced into the legal provisions, which is only part of the area of public procurement, which is already already very poorly implemented, even more imprudent and allows for even greater exceptions, even greater transparency and even greater infringements. We therefore propose by this amendment that all the text, which is "for the local community", is simply deleted and remains only the phrase "the public tender is also mandatory for those objects... whose investor is a country or local community."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am afraid that this proposal would prevent colleagues from achieving what colleague Tanko is explaining and because I, with a large majority of what he is explaining, deeply agree. If this supplement were accepted, it would mean that all objects, whatever they would be, including all objects up to a million value, would be subject to a public architectural competition. Of course, this was not the purpose of the debate and not our wishes and our decisions. And, of course, we would have acted contrary to what we have advocated in the main members of the committee. This is simply the case - and this is contained in our amendment proposal - to limit the reasonable height of those objects for which it is necessary that we really do not come into a situation that has already been seen somehow in connection with the amendments that have been made, that we will have to have an architectural competition in a municipality or wherever we need to have the same for sewerage and so on and that for an object worth a million or a million and a half, we will have to have an architectural competition first, then only other things. That would make absolutely no sense. That is why this amendment, which we have tabled by the three parliamentary groups, goes to a limit, of course, and this limit is at this point because it is connected, as it is written, is at this moment about a billion two hundred - I think there is this limit here somewhere - and this limit ensures that, of course, it will be necessary for these large objects to do so - and it is right to do so - that in objects that are not so large and should not be affected so much by this thing, but no. There is another guardian inside, as you can see below, the Ministry is in charge of the second point of this new Article 43 to prepare a regulation, and this Regulation must record what this is, that there will really be no different sewerages and plumbing, but only facilities that have an impact on the environment, and it is only right that such competitions are for these facilities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Minister Digger wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you. I could not agree more with Mr Kremjar - in short, I could no longer say in favour of the amendments of the three parliamentary groups and against the SDS amendment, as Mr Kremjar said. I would just like to point out that in determining the public procurement obligation, which, by the way, is not the same as the public procurement contract under the public procurement law, this is something else, so that this is not regulated at two ends of the same matter, but different. Well, in determining the obligation to conduct a public competition, of course, those who are seductive to space, either the municipality or the government for state facilities, have the whole possibility, but also the obligation, if such an intervention would have a significant impact on the appearance - even for many smaller investments, even for small ones, which may be very low, for example, in the case of the regulation of a small scale market, which may be very important to the appearance of that place, an investment may be worth 10 million tolls, even for such an area act may not only be able to do so - in fact, it is charged to prescribe an obligation of public competition. What is said by the text that has been drafted on the Infrastructure Committee and is now being upgraded by this amendment of the three parliamentary groups is, of course, merely preventing the madness that Mr Kremjar has already indicated that, for example, a sewerage that is buried in the ground is by chance worth more than, for example, 300 million tolars, which was the limit so far, it is mandatory to have a design competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u81	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate on the article and the amendments and we are moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, the Slovenian Democratic Party. If this amendment is adopted, the second amendment will become irrelevant. Let's wait a second for colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We vote on the SDS amendment. Of the 50 present, 13 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will now decide on the amendment, which is now under order number 2, this is the amendment of the drafters DeSUS, LDS and the United List. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 19 where the amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I am opening a debate on the article and the amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you very much. With this amendment, I'd just like to add a little something. In short, it is necessary to know that we have very problematic issues in the area of space regulation, because spatial acts are unregulated, spatial records are unregulated, that for a long time or for a very long period of inspection services have not worked - this is, after all, also the answer to the question that I have asked the Minister at the previous meeting of the National Assembly - when we have enforceable decisions that are 4, 5 or more years old and have not broken down. In short, in this case, the increase in penalties in the area of space, in the area of the construction of buildings, I estimate that these are very problematic matters, and we propose that the penalties be aligned with the conditions that have so far been in place in the area of the construction of buildings and with the conditions that govern this society in general. It is impossible for an object called an easy object to be called a simple object, and it can, according to the household, be a barracks costing 100,000, 200,000 tolars, a minimum penalty of 2 million tolars and the highest for this case of 10 million tolars. In short, it is an enormous penalty according to the value of the intervention in a space that does not devalue the relative space. The fact is that the inspection of this sentence can be repeated nine more times, that is to say up to ten times the penalty, and in such a case, in the event of non-removal, the value of the facility exceeds a hundred times. In short, a completely disorderly area. In other areas, in other points of this Article, there are similar enormous penalties for both those performing interventions to the premises and to any other person. I think that the situation is unsustainable, inappropriate and at least we must try to reconcile these penalties with the situation, with the wages, with the other things that rule in this society, because in the event of such a punishment being imposed, this means an automatic bankruptcy of 60%, 70% of the citizens of this country. This, I think, is not the goal for any of us, so it would make sense for something to be improved in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The aim of the penalty is certainly not to fill the state budget, if that is the case. The penalty is not to commit offenses, it is the result of something and, of course, no height in my judgment is too high. And, of course, linking the punishment by not being able to pay this penalty is a little cynical, I have to say, because no one has to do any offenses and, of course, I think, of course, that the penalties must be high, they must be high, because this prevents us from doing any offenses. And it is very wrong to link social and penal policies in my judgment, which we see, of course, from the policy of punishment in the field of transport. When we introduced a new law with new, higher penalties, I don't know how long ago it was better to drive on our roads, but, of course, when it was divorced, there was no real effect. Also in other countries, we drive differently than we drive home because we are aware of the penalties and, of course, we do not afford them. And that's the point of this, so lowering the penalty and linking it to whether someone can pay the penalty or not, but because he doesn't need to, you don't have to commit the offence. The second thing is; these penalties are, of course, imposed when they do not respond to the removal of the object, to do something about this object - first this is it! There is no automaticity as soon as someone has committed a crime, but from this he will be punished; first it is, and if he does not do so, then it is. Thus, these steps are sufficiently intertwined and I think it would be right for the penalties to remain high. If we have higher penalties, we will have fewer such violations, which of course is the purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Look, personally, I don't even object to the fact that the serious offences committed in various areas, but also in our case, in the building law, are high. I agree they're tall, even though I say they're too tall. What bothers me more is that you, in the ruling political option, with the government at your head, have different criteria for measuring and sentencing individuals, different meters, different vats. That's the problem. And you, sir - well, I will not say this, but mostly some of you who are extremely great advocates of government policy, LDS policy and so on, all of whom are spoken in advance, from the first day until the end of the term, have said, among other things, that no one has to do anything and will not be punished. Okay, I agree that the sentences at stake will be high to prevent everyone from committing crimes. I agree with that. However, if someone commits a crime and does not even a natural person, it is done by a company, and it is a company that is digging into money, which is also probably engaged in corruption and all other unscrupulous activities and helps finance electoral campaigns, such as, for example, these ruling structures, they are not punished. This is the worst abuse of legislation in our system, where high penalties for the poor and the exemption of punishment for the rich are actually at risk. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about a particular case that happened when I went down on my own into some application of a violation of the building law, of course, valid, where an investor is a rank that I've talked about before, which is probably very much involved in corruption and funding the electoral campaign of the governing structures - and there's also a question of what else, it's also giving certain commissions, because they have certain benefits - he's done illegal construction. And what happened? Well, then you'll replicate, Mr Lavrinc, when I say it to the end, and you'll define yourself to this case if you want. I have reported this illegal construction, the inspector has taken action, has also issued a decision requiring the removal of this facility within 60 days and has also brought proceedings against a criminal judge in accordance with Article 168 of the Act. After the 60-day deadline, this investor, who illegally built the facility and actually committed a crime against the natural environment, as I was saying, did not remove the facility, but continued to operate, of course not with electricity, because it was not allowed to connect because I also prevented it from connecting to an electrical connection - it had already been implemented, and so on. He brought in the aggregate and they were running this facility through the aggregate. But it's already built all the power grids and everything, it's just not connected. So other offenders made a mistake, or other companies, other contractors, which they should not have done. Since there is no building permit, they must not perform the connection and, of course, they did not connect it, they did not turn it on and they built the installations. We shouldn't have done this! This should also be punished. No, no, no, no, no! Far from it. That didn't happen either. In short, after the 60 - day expiry of the deadline, the object was not even removed, nor was any other sentence imposed because the trial was brought to the judge for offences. Then I asked the object to collapse again, subsequently, with calls, with letters to the inspector. The Inspector has not acted on the basis of Article 148 of the Law and is not entitled to impose additional penalties ten times, which he would have had the right to do. He didn't do it. And what happened after six months of my application from an illegally built facility? The Minister, Mr Kopač, and his co-workers have issued a valid building permit, without citizens or nationals having the right to participate in this process in any way. In fact, we've been extremely affected with this facility. We even claim that the facility is harmful to the environment, even in terms of health, although some studies have been made, in which, of course, I do not believe anything because they are made according to the instructions of the contracting authority. And then, of course, I acted, or I even called the inspector, or the judge for offences, and I asked him if he had already pronounced punishments and penalties. He said that he had received the application, but that the penalties had not yet been imposed and that he did not know when they would have the case, but he was awaiting a hearing. And what's gonna happen? Now it's been over a year, a year and a half, since then, another six months, and it's going to get old, and then, of course, no one's going to pay anything. Well, now look. The sentence was not pronounced, the illegally built object was legalized, the object was not removed and so on. Now tell me if there are any elements of corruption present and who knows what else. Probably. It's probably all there. Since no one should, nor should the State, the Minister of Environment and Space, issue a building permit valid if the facility is illegally built and is contrary to the building law. [[...]] [[It's a group.]] Bilaterality and this corruption of this country, and that is why, of course, I object to the fact that the penalties are high. [[...]] However, if they are such as to be pronounced in accordance with the law, this penalty should be imposed ten times, in so far as the infringement occurs, on charges and the illegally constructed facility shall be demolished and removed and the land placed in its original state. Just like it's been forever and so be it here. But what's going on? Where you have an interest, of course, you legalize things where you have no interest and where you want to trap a small person, and, of course, you allow or require it to be done in accordance with the applicable legislation. In short, I think I've shown you the problem sufficiently, pointed out the problem. I hope that - as Members of the General Assembly, the principled authority, the principled rule, the law - you will also exercise and realize it in this country. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Sok. A replica? He didn't mention you. You're gonna answer that in the debate. Well, well, Mr. Kremjar's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u88	It's easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u89	You mentioned the first three letters, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u90	It was described who was the one who was something [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u91	The first three letters of your name he said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u92	'Cause I get it pretty fast, and I get it right away, and that's why I replicate. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u93	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u94	to the debate of the distinguished colleague Kelemin. [[...]] He mentioned me in the middle of my last name, and I think that's enough, but of course, which bothers me very much about it, he mixed things that he can't and it's not good for us to mix them up. We are talking about the amount of punishment, this story, which he has already told on the parental committee, can be interesting and interesting to listen to and I am very much in agreement with his assessments of this. But that's just not what this is about. We are discussing whether the penalties should be as set out in the proposal or whether these penalties should be lower. I say once again: let them be as they are, let them be tall, and then they will also be achieved what colleague Kelemin advocates, that they will not be and be punished. Most of what colleague Kelemina said was in favour of my thesis that the penalties should be higher and whether it be higher or later the authorities or those who are - because they are not exercising the power of penal policy, but those who have to carry it out; and if there are matters that are not regulated, this should be taken into account in other matters, but not in this article and in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Mr. Kremjar, that wasn't a replica. Anyway, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Let's just say our LDS colleagues are allowed more than we are allowed from the opposition. But if I listen to my fellow Kremjar - because I also heard everything he said on the committee today - then of course I can imagine that he, as a seduced Slovenian, a citizen who respects all laws, has never committed a traffic offence in his life. Your speech would have concluded that you didn't, but there's probably no one here in this hall who didn't commit a traffic violation. Now let us make up our minds and say what a punishment it is for such an offence! Is this punishment such that you can't, like, pay her whether she's being raised or whether this punishment is something else? And this principle actually applies to all areas. I have repeatedly pointed out in the adoption of agricultural legislation that we are adopting a criminal policy that is, I don't know, unargumented. We impose too much punishment and because these penalties are too high, the courts do not say them; but if they do, such punishment can mean destruction for someone. This is no educational measure if you give a small entrepreneur or a small trader a fine of millions of Slovenian tolars. This is not a educational measure, it is the only thing to move it from its company to its largest company, this is an unemployment facility. And that's what's happening in this country. Every day, due to unresolved disputes in the courts, due to excessive penalties and so on, people fail in their activities. Read the magazines! They come to my office to tell the stories they have with the tax administration they have with the administrative courts and so on. The punishment must, of course, be appropriate, and we are all committed to it. But before we passed the mining law, half an hour ago, if someone breaks and black digs up so many and so many cubic grams, they can be punished with a million or a million and a half. Then this same process of repetition can pay 100,000 tolars each time! And you said, it's okay, we want to partially settle this issue. Here, in this case, the sentence, for example, could be the maximum of at least 5 up to 30 if the amendment were accepted. However, if the amendment is not adopted, these penalties are still significantly higher. What's the point of imposing too much punishment? I don't think there's any. And I also asked the Minister on the committee, but he did not answer me on what basis, on what calculations the ministries come with, with what calculations, when deciding on such a form of criminal policy in relation to offences. One of our board members also made a very good proposal. If you think that some offences are so financially highly evaluated, then why do we not reclassify them as crimes; they would be better solutions than putting so much financial burden on someone that they cannot settle them or that they represent actual destruction for them. If you think an offence is such a nature, that it is necessary to punish it so high, then it is better to turn the matter from a crime to a crime and thereby give real weight to the crime it caused. Therefore, I think that the amendment proposed by the opposition party of the SDS could easily, without great harm, be supported and, somehow, in this area, ease the situation unless, of course, you think that the amendment should be opposed only because it was proposed by the opposition's colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There are three other debaters, Mr Lavrinc, Mr Kebric and Mr Ašić. Mr. Minister, when do you want to answer? Can we do it now? Please, Mr. Secretary has priority because he's already signed up for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Thank you. Maybe I'll clear up some misunderstanding, even though I'll say the same thing I'm on the board; this is where the discussion with the committee is really happening. In the violation of the building law, this amendment does not change at all with your amendment, Members of the SDS. So if someone's building on black, there's penalties, misdemeanors. For a natural person it is from 300 000 to million tolars - for the responsible person of the legal person and the individual is from 100,000 to 300 thousand tolars. For black construction. These aren't dragon punishments. I think you agree. What we are now talking about is penalties for for forcing expulsion. So, the inspector has a chance to tell the black builder, so send him to the magistrate for crimes, where he gets between 100 and 300 thousand dollars, but of course the construction inspection can also hire a construction company to undermine this black construction. However - this is what this article is talking about, and this is what is important - it can impose an obligation on this blacksmith himself and, if he fails to fulfil this obligation, then he must pay those penalties that you are now trying to reduce. In short, these are mandatory executions. These are not punishments for a crime. And someone who does something in black will not be severely punished in the way of a criminal judge, but it can happen to him, it will happen, it will happen to him, it will be a very big punishment if he does not heal the situation back on his own. The point of this is that, of course, we do not engage coerced executioners for every smallest black construction that is large in Slovenia, but we also successfully remove them, but it costs, of course, it goes to the budget and it is more appropriate, of course, that investors, black builders do it themselves, and those penalties, which are really high, are designed to do so. But they're not written in their minds, but they're in some ranges, which means some attempt to evaluate the value of the object in question, and that's why, of course, we think it's appropriate. Even if the reductions, as proposed by the SDS, would still be high, the whole system would not fail, I must say this, but we believe that they are more appropriate than those in the basic proposal. To respond briefly to two things that are not directly related to this, they have so far been exposed to mining law. Mr. Sok, you read it wrong. There's coercion, so every time there's 100,000 tolars more punishment, not that next time there's 100,000 tolars, but it's 100,000 tolars bigger than before. It's something essential else. However, as regards Mr Kelemina's discussion, I must say that we are, of course, issuing building permits where this is only possible in terms of spatial acts, whether it is the first, second or third mobile phone operator. But where the spatial act does not allow it, of course it does not work, and even a few mobile telephone stations in the past year and a half, we have failed. Now I don't know the exact number, but I think it's closing in on number 10. Thus, the inspection was also effective in this regard. In this case, too, it would be very useful for us to have one Mobitel or Simmobil for black construction prescribed the removal obligation. But if he doesn't remove it, I don't know, within a week, he's going to be fined 30 million dollars. That's the kind of ticket that makes black builders feel better.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I am grateful to the Minister that he explained because of the media and objective listeners that it is not really what they discussed two times before. But if he hopes to convince any of these things, I advise him to give up that hope as soon as possible. Why? Because some people really don't understand what this is about, and some people don't understand, it can be so simple and beautifully said. That's what this is about. A fellow Kremjar also asked me to say that he had already committed a crime, but it is not like, for example, any other person who, when it was a gun smuggler, called some prosecutor or similar to leave him alone for God's sake. That's it. Otherwise, I'll tell Mr. Kelema. Anyone who knows that a crime has been committed but does not report it has committed a crime. And, of course, because Mr Kelemina knows about the whole trail of thieves, corrupts and so on, I advise him to do it as soon as possible, or of course he can go into some kind of procedure on his own. Otherwise, if I take more seriously what is the principles of colleague Sok, all criminal policy is worth serious discussion, all of it. We, I will say that many times, when different lawmakers are not ministers, these are those who are just nomotechnically doing things and so on - to somehow escape us. If we didn't have something to say, a procedure where we could check these things out. So, let's say in some road safety law, it was written that just because someone forgot to extend a permit, you have to pay 90,000 tolar fines. And if you think about the population that your colleague Kelemin probably had in mind, that's terrible. And thank God that we have also written this in the law on offences, so that in such a case the power of an extraordinary pardon is. I will be very grateful to take these questions seriously so that we can discuss them seriously. However, if a person wants to talk seriously, he must also do so seriously, not with some parachute amendments on his nose at the last moment and undermine some concept that is actually in every area. However, it is certain that every ministry, because it is also within us by the Constitution, has some of its criteria, and within this there are also those penalties that are envisaged, let us say, in such a case. I think it's the environment ministry that can judge even as an example of how things are ranked, how those who are stronger, if you want, by their wallets than those who are weaker, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u101	I would ask that the debaters follow the rules of procedure and stick to the point we are discussing and to the amendment we are discussing. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm replicating, of course, Mr. Lavrinc. First, the article is open. Is it or isn't it? So if the article is open, we have the right to amend whatever is in this article. This is our right, and you can, of course, reject what you will do - there is no problem. We opened the article, proposed a change, discussed it, and your thing is how you're going to solve it. Secondly, it is Mr Lavrinc that you threaten me to be careful and that I will soon be in these procedures - okay, no problem, you threaten me, just tell you this; with the first "shut" you undermine me, because if you don't - it's hard for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Look, Mr. Kebrich has the next word. Mr. Kebrich has the floor. I know, but you've abused the rules of procedure yourself. Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. On the agenda we have Article 19 and the amendment concerning the penalty, and we want it, and I think it is right to discuss it. Why did I sign up for the word? In particular because of the fact that the social note is to some extent embedded in the article itself, when it is possible to make a financial statement, I will say, a penalty ranging from that amount to that amount. Socially speaking, 100,000 tolars for the low-income one are as warning as 500,000 tolars for the rich guy who does it with his left hand. Therefore, the judgment is given to the person who imposes the penalty to take these circumstances into account as such. That criminal policy is in a financial sense, I am talking about fines in a financial sense, is different, but our luck is that we have not yet managed to unify certain criteria and that, I will say, traffic offences are fined as some other offence in other areas according to the second criterion. In fact, this is compared to abroad, where certain financial sanctions are more harmonised in all these areas. I see this problem with the next eyes. I have proposed to the Ministry of Environment and Space, Minister Kopač, long ago, on the proposal of the Offences Act, how to sanction them. But they don't want to do it. I've proven to them that they have clearly marked all the black constructions on their aerials, their maps, and yet they don't want to interfere. Why? Probably because there are also many state violators - various graves, bridges and others without construction permits - and they should also be sanctioned, and they should also be fined financially. That is why, under the terms of "corruption", when someone has black construction, he laughs at all those who adopted the law that it was possible to legalise black construction under a certain financial penal policy at the time. And they didn't want to. If I remind you that deposits had to be made, honest citizens deposited, tried to legalise construction, in most cases it did, paid the minimum penalty, which was really low at the time. Today, however, certain individuals do not want to be punished for such and other reasons. Mr Minister's answer - come on, say it specifically, and name Franček and Micka, and tell me which parcel he's on. Are we really going to go into each other's lives - not the neighbor, the milestone, but the devil? No! No! We have institutions, we have inspections to interfere. And for me, no punishment will be too high if they are adequately differentiated in terms of social status and circumstances. For the problem that I see in this financial punishment and in this amendment is the following: one who has black construction - I will not exaggerate - for ten years now he has not wanted to legalise, but I represent the position that he should also be punished with ten years of enjoyment in peace and laughter for all those who have legalized their black constructions, but should pay ten times the penalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Procedural? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gradually, in accordance with Article 69, I will tell you this: that you have misinterpreted the Rules of Procedure, which in Article 70 speaks of the right to a replica. Since I was specifically named, even words were turned into threats of firearms, and of course from someone who does not give a chance to speak, for example, in the evening in a garage and narrow before, of course there is no way to expect a different vocabulary. But I think that you, as chairman, must allow me to get that word when I want to replicate and say what it is. And you are angry because you are angry at me, for example, if I use Janez Janša's example in that arms affair, when Mrs Barbara Brezigar was used for this, of course, that he was not even interrogated, this anger of yours cannot be the reason that you do not allow me to replicate. And I had a perfectly correct replica, including as far as this article or this amendment is concerned, is the case here offered by Mr Kelemina. And that. If you are strict, Mr Vice President, you must warn me when Mr Kelemino speaks so loudly, and I am disturbed by the right word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Well, it would be good if the president of the Committee on Internal Policy knew the rules of procedure if he had already called and taught everything. I'm in charge of the session, and I'm deciding how it's gonna run. And it is very clear in Article 70 that "every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate, as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted". In this regard, of course, it is quite clear that the President, if I may quote this paragraph, "gives him the word as soon as he requests it. The replica must be limited only to the necessary explanation", and so on. So, you see, this is about having to, for the first time, stick to the rules of procedure and talk about the content that is on the agenda, not talking about the fantasies that one, the other, or the third. And I won't let that happen here. And Mr. Lavrinz, you abused that part of the rules of procedure. And we're not discussing this anymore. Mr Ašić has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Max will also calm down, and probably Mr Kelemina will no longer threaten, because nothing in the Rules of Procedure says that threats and similar things should be banned, but I think it is good that we do not do this in Parliament. And I would go back to the original part of our debate. And, unfortunately, I also have to say, I have also listened very carefully to Mr Kebrich that, despite the Minister's two-time explanation, we have not all understood what these penalties mean. These penalties for offences are prescribed. I am well aware of these procedures, and I believe that a number of Members also have problems with their electorates when they come to the office of the Member to help them when the decisions on the dissolution are already legally binding. However, he did not come when the inspector found him, because he might still be able to help, because the inspector does not immediately write down the demolition decision, but allows all the possibilities offered by the legislation and, of course, the spatial and regulatory acts to legalise such an object. If you can only legalize it. However, if it is not possible, of course, the decision to remove the facility usually follows, and the time limit must be set at which time this must be done. But these are all the little punishments that actually say you have to pay if you built something black. However, usually, when the decision is enforceable and the deadline for enforcement runs out, it happens that everyone, I would say, poorer segments of the population actually do it themselves. And that these penalties are intended for those rich people who are made out of all the lunatics who call the journalists, POP TV, the whole circus they do, and of course the police are monitoring the inspector and the concessionaire who should remove it, the universal Slovenia is disgusted by what is happening to us and the object is still standing. We remember someone in the middle of protected mountain areas in Slovenia. And this punishment is supposed to be for someone who doesn't want to be removed, who laughs at everyone who has enough money to sit still and watch what happens. All the poor will themselves be removed, for when the inspector gives the removal order, he also writes that he will be removed with the help of the state and the concessionaire, but at his expense. And because he doesn't have the money, he removes that facility itself, of course, knee this country and everything on the list, but he does. But those who have a lot of money, not even a knee state, but mock her, make a fool of themselves, and for these great punishments are intended. Just for you and no one else, not for criminals. But all those who talk about taking into account the social situation in the case of offences, of course, that means that if you go over speed on the road, someone who comes 30 kilometers an hour with a Mercedes should pay a lot more than others with damage because it's somehow correlated with the situation in the pocket. All those who say that, of course, you're going back to some system that we've been gaukin' and a lot of people are still loathing about it. For remember that when we had to go to the magistrate for transgressions, we had to bear a certificate of property, of wages and all. On this basis, the judge then applied a penalty in a certain range. Well, then it's fucked in the previous system but it's very good and now it's not. We have to deal with it, that's the situation, and the offense is equal to the crime, whoever does it. But this punishment is foreseen, believe me, for the richest people who make fun of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. First, it might be good to process someone else, to look at each other and to look at their problems and their transgressions, and perhaps someone would start with a zebra and some sort of a zebra offense, and then continue with all the other things that we have been having as an affair, and nowhere else have they been defined as having an affair. Nothing happened, although all the organs that are one or the other are probably more yours than ours, because you have a majority everywhere, you could also prove something in those 10 or in 5 years at the end. Second. It represents the issue of "paradise proposal" as an insult. Since the proposal has been tabled to supplement, in order to amend this Article in a procedural manner, properly, in a timely manner, I have not received any indication from anyone that the matter is inappropriate or inconsistent. In short, such judgments, which individual fellow Members spend and scatter after those who are not of age, are extremely offensive and inappropriate. And after all, what happened to "fallers" and "fallers" is more or less already defined in this National Assembly. In the proposal set out here, we have proposed a reduction of the maximum penalty limit and in particular a significant reduction of the lower penalty threshold. We do not completely abolish any punishment, but we lower the upper and lower thresholds and allow those who commit offences to be sanctioned. However, not in a way to destroy them, to prevent the poor from becoming poor, to corrupt people, to corrupt societies, but with the possibility of being made in some more civilized, more acceptable way. There are probably very few people in this country who can afford to receive a fine of 30 million so that this punishment can be repeated nine more times in a relatively short period of time. There's very few of them. But there are very few who can pay the fines, whose lower limit is 30 million, not the upper limit, the lower limit. We have proposed that this penalty - for example, which is 30 to 50 million according to your proposal, with the possibility of reaching the end value of a tenfold, that is to say 300 or 500 million - be reduced to between 5 and 30 million; and that for all those penalties, including individuals. Because I think that in Slovenia there are very few, 60% of people don't deserve to pay the fine, I don't know, like, a million tolars, short of the savings. I don't think there's much of these people in Slovenia. But the situation is like this: wages are bad, school-bound kids and other things. We therefore propose that these matters be harmonised at a more appropriate level, not completely eliminated. Some who receive such penalties for these illegal matters also have problems, for despite the imposition of a measure of demolition, these people have nowhere to be found. But it happened, they built an object, and they have nothing to do with it, they can't break it, and they don't have the money to pay for it. And that's why things aren't working. We've passed a mining law before. It was also a repetition of the offence in that law, as in these cases. First, it is a basic measure, and for a million and a half penalties have been said earlier, and for each repetition given by the Inspector 100,000 additional penalties, it is also illegal spears, as in these cases. In these cases, however, the penalties are 10 times higher. I think that the proposer of all the things he proposes from his department should, at least on a horizontal basis, harmonise. To propose a starting sentence or the same penalty for a similar or similar offence, or even the same offence, and there is absolutely no reason to deal here with penalties that are ten times lower, I don't know, six times, ten times higher than those that we had previously adopted in one law to repeat an illegal spear. Listen, this is unacceptable. One more thing I would like to point out is why I think these penalties are extremely high: spatial documents are extremely bad, we have seen this before, things do not work, a lot of obsolete cases, and also the preventive measures that should be identified, I would say, certain institutions and also act in a timely manner, are not being implemented or with great delays. Even on this side, it's unacceptable and unfair to just start at these maximums. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The proposal that we have tabled for admission is in line with the Act on Offences, and is in line with the Act on Offences. What we have proposed as an amendment is not inconsistent with the law on offences, by using the possibility of proposing a three-fold penalty in case of environmental matters, which you have used. However, I think it is enough already - if our proposal is already high for many or for many people, it is in line with the law on offences. I think it would be wise enough from this council to at least in the case of such drastic proposals, to reduce such drastic proposals when you have written them in your marriage proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, a lot of work has helped me to do my colleague Ašišč, but still, the amendment's proponents. Of course, it is entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I apologize, I have been listening for an hour now, and the explanation you have given to Members and Members today has been completely inappropriate and misleading and has, of course, triggered discussions by fellow Members, who have not exactly gone into every word that is not in line with the topic that we are discussing today and in this article. The Minister tried, tried to explain, and again an explanation was given, which was not true, which was misleading. And Mr Tanko, it is not a repetition of offences, as you have again tried to explain, that it is another pledge that we are incorporating into this law, and something else has been written in the mining law. The beginning clearly says that in this part we actually put the tool in the hands of the inspector when he makes the decision. And it is necessary to know that this is a line construction which has been undisputedly identified in proceedings before the administrative authorities, that legalisation is not possible and there is a need for demolition. And the inspector must, under the administrative procedure law, take these measures in the context of enforcement from the mildest to the strictest measure. And this country has chosen three options: first, to give an individual who has violated the possibility that an object which is unlawfully removed itself, another possibility is to try to force him to remove the object himself with financial penalties and this article speaks about it. The third measure, which is the most stringent to carry out this removal by third party and the costs, of course, are imposed on the offender. And so this article sets out the height and extent of the penalty of this second medium, I will say, a serious measure, that is, a compulsion to remove it all by yourself, that is to say, to approach it yourself. And they don't hold up an explanation. And I very much ask that we do not mislead Members of Parliament and Members, and that we do not needlessly burden ourselves with things that do not contribute to a better or worse criminal policy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Can Mr. Petan. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So I think that if this is the approach I have now heard about this penal policy, then something is wrong. I don't know if I should say it's a replica or a debate, but there's something I'd like to say. Those who think we're going to punish those who have a lot of money so they don't do stupid things, in that sense, they're wrong, they're only punishments for the poor. In our country, the same situation as now is the penalty only for the poor. Because those who have enough money to pay those huge millions for some kind of punishment will never get to that punishment because they'll lose the files before, there won't be a case file or anything like that. Everything is in the sense of this debate - the penalty will only be paid by the poor. And that's why I'd like to say the following. Otherwise I do not agree that punishment would be like a social category, I agree with that, but unfortunately it is necessary to take into account the fact that it is so with us - and soon I will also start to represent this view that punishment must be social, because punishments are only for the poor in us. As far as legalization is concerned. Legalization is only for the rich. Legalization is not for the poor, because it will never come to someone who doesn't really have a lot of money, what's legalized. Figo! Only one who has the money to pay the easy penalty will be allowed to legalize it. That is why this needs to be taken into account. And if you put it in the law, such an approach, then it's the wrong approach. Look, whatever you want! None of the hot thieves have ever been buried in the closet, but he's one of the others. And that is why this approach is wrong.Legalization for the poor is not possible, but punishment is only for the poor. Because he doesn't have the money to do anything, to do anything, to do anything, he doesn't have a minister's card or anything like that to intervene in his name so that it doesn't happen. That's why punishments are only for the poor. And please consider that. Therefore, it is the thought of lowering those maximum penalties because none of those strong millionaires will pay them, which some otherwise call them. That's why it makes sense to go down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are now going more and more widely. What if, after this extensive debate, one and the other arguments were put to the vote? Not that I'm taking someone's word, but it's my feeling that somehow we don't contribute to clarifying issues anymore. If anyone wants a word, of course he'll get it. Mrs. Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, of course, you allowed your colleague to cross again. However, the claim that the issue of legalisation in this country is in some historical period, and we all probably remember it, was subjected to a test that the poor cannot, but the rich can, absolutely not. Legalisation of all black buildings in our country was carried out only on the basis of an assessment of the fact that the facility was placed in a space in accordance with municipal spatial acts. That's all, and the claim is a complete lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members! Part of what has been said before is that legalization is possible for those who have money, and it is not possible for those who do not have money to pay in advance all the necessary, clearly outside the law, to hold in part. Only a few small ones may need to be added in this regard. In fact, I think that the amendment with the proposed amendments to the execution penalty, when imposed by the construction inspector for the forced demolition of the facility, is good enough, high enough for those who will receive such a decision to be truly sober. It is also important whether it is possible not only to issue a decision but also whether it is possible to do so in the end. If this is not possible, then such measures, which are only on paper, make no sense. Well, but what I wanted to add, which is important, who can and who can't legally legalize black-built objects and who has to or can't pay these penalties, is required to have one more ID besides money, which is called LDS or the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Is there any chance we could still vote before the break? Who wants another word? Yeah, let's make a note of who else is going to discuss it, because I'm going to take a break now. Now we're just going to record the debaters. So, Mr. Merlo. Then who else? No one else. Is there any chance of us going to the vote under this article and then taking a break? Is that okay? Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u120	I'll be very brief. No populism. I think it's that first blow I've been expecting for a long time that our minister made today with this bill. In the sense that it was desirable to impose penalties on the right place in this country. I also wish that there would be fewer dead with serious penalties, more consistent implementation of traffic regulations and in other areas. It would be less murder if people and villains were more afraid of repressive organs. I therefore support the proposal put forward by the Ministry and therefore reject this amendment. I think we've gone too far into populist waters and that in this country this is one of the attempts to set up order, because if you don't just hit the feather, then nothing matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Thank you. Can we close the debate? I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Therefore, it will be clear after all this debate that we are deciding. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 19. We're voting! It appears that another vote will have to be taken. We can see what it's like to be involved. Are the cards in? There are enough of us in the hall, so we could vote again. Well, we're voting again! There's still not enough of us. The vote shall continue for the third time immediately after the recess. It's now 13.05. We're voting at 13.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u122	I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the National Assembly Hall. I'll wait a minute. We will vote for the third time. If this vote is unsuccessful, I will order a longer committee and call on the leaders of the parliamentary groups to consult, so that I propose that we avoid it. Look, everyone understands that at such a pace as the State Assembly has been working for a long time, it is not possible to work flawlessly all day and, of course, at night. I told you, it's not an emergency. It's an emergency. We are in the final coordination of the Slovenian acquis with the European and only with the great cooperation of all and maximum patience can we succeed, we are also successful and thank you for that. We are therefore voting on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. This is an amendment to Article 19. We are enough in the hall, if I see it right, but we should all be careful when voting. Can I wait a second? Okay. Good. Colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 19. The voting devices are fine. We're voting. 52 in attendance, 17 in and 33 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. There are three amendments to Article 31. In the case of the adoption of an amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group under order number 1, the amendments under number 2 and number 3 are, of course, irrelevant. Anybody want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] Please, Comrade Rokavec, colleague of Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we proposed a second amendment to Article 218 or Article 31 of this proposal. Indeed, one of the key issues in the adoption of this law is in particular the question of what it means to define an unwalled building site. In the basic law adopted by the National Assembly at the beginning of last year, we have, of course, stated in the third paragraph, that unbuilt buildings are subject to this Article as from the date of application of this law, to those lands which, by means of an implementing spatial act, are considered to be eligible for the construction of residential and commercial buildings which are not intended for the purposes of health, social, child care, education, culture, science, sport and public administration and which are not intended for the purposes of health, social, child care, education, science and sport and public administration. Of course, this is described in paragraph 3. In paragraph 4, it was stated that the municipalities must, of course, comply with the provisions of this Article within six months at the latest. Most of this happened, with the exception of rare exceptions, the municipalities of course adopted decisions on compensation for the use of building land. Therefore, paragraph 5 was totally useless because it provided that, if the municipalities did not do so, compensation would, of course, be charged for the use of the building land for the entire area of also the building land, at the level envisaged for the building plot. Of course, there was a lot of debate about this in this national assembly. But what's the key problem right now? The key problem at this point is that, despite all of this, the government still wants to insist that the municipalities should continue to do so this year and that the municipalities should, of course, also be able to pay compensation for the use of building land this year, Mr President, I really want you to establish a little more peace. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you. See, the key problem is that the government then wants to define in the following article and in the provisions of the new 218.a to Article that, of course, the municipalities should charge and measure this year and, of course, collect compensation for the use of the building land also from the walled building land. But there are a lot of questions here, a lot of questions. See, the congregations, as I said before, have adopted a decree, now in this law the government is proposing changes to the definition of unpaved building land and, of course, procedures. Thus, in 218.b., where it is, of course, said to be considered as wallless building plots, all those lands which are determined by a spatial implementing act to be eligible for construction of a particular type of facility. Of course, he adds, if they are provided with drinking water and energy, sewage disposal, waste disposal, and access to public road, and could still be listed. This anger is correct, but the municipalities do not have these provisions in amended decrees. Then, of course, the government is very positive that, in fact, these provisions are regulated by paragraph 218, where it clearly defines the public declaration procedure and procedures, how to inform land plot owners, of course, in paragraph 3 it also compensates the taxpayers for the possibility of a one-month period from the public notice that it proposes the entry of new data or to propose the entry of changes in the data referred to in Article 218(1), but it takes time to do so. And I would ask, for God's sake, even if the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party is not the best, it is necessary to give the municipalities time to bring these documents into line with new facts and with the new state and also with the new provisions of this building law. By the way, I'm only going to tell you one case. I come from a congregation where we have taken this issue very seriously and have also adopted a provision in the decree that all landowners may give an initiative to change the destination of the land to a different destination; also from a wally one by the end of this year and that, of course, if they provide this provision, of course, to the definition of what will be the final decision on the nature of this land, there will be no payment for the remuneration for the use of the building land. And what happens in nature now? When the current spatial documents or spatial plan were defined, let's put it simply, many of these documents were drawn in offices outside the actual state of affairs in Slovenia. And on the basis of these spatial plans, of course, the congregations have accepted additions, amendments, and only now that the congregations have taken it seriously do so do they also identify landowners as to their actual condition or their respective land. And then we get to the case, I have it here, it might be worse to see when this plot is walled up, and around it is all the first class of agricultural land without any access to public road, to supply drinking water, but this parcel is defined in the spatial implementation act of the municipality as possible for construction. Of course there's a lapsus. Here are the problems that will still need to be aligned with the process of amending the new plan or the new spatial order of the congregation, of course, that all the already defined walled, unwalled buildings will in fact determine which can really be in function for a certain period of time. And I would therefore suggest that, even if our amendment is not the best one, the amendments of DeSUS, LDS and the United Kingdom could still be amended and completed by the end of this year. The municipalities which have harmonised these documents, which also have a harmonised complete record, a new cadastral and non-walled building plots, are not in any way prevented from already collecting compensation for the use of the building land even from unbuilt building plots. However, it is unacceptable to re-set the time limit in Article 31, a purely general deadline which once again does not mean that, of course, the decree must be harmonised by 31 July 2004 and, of course, also to the competent tax authority, to provide data for the refund. Now, of course, with the amendment of coalition parties, it's been postponed to September 30th, but let's just think about it. On 30 September, a municipality will submit to the tax authority a new record, which will be the basis for the refund for this year. The tax administration will be able to issue, of course, a decision and, of course, a single burden. However, the burdens will vary. If the rate is very minimal, it can happen that for some unwalled building land, I speak specifically only for the case of our congregation, and I know that we went at a very low rate of 0.2 points, this burden for 1 hectare of such land to the owner of 270,000. And if this owner gets a single dose before the end of this year, we can also imagine what the reactions will be. And it would be acceptable that, in fact, you are in this area, when the taxation of unpaved building land is also being introduced again, that the country needs time for the municipalities. Once again, the congregations that have already harmonised this, which also have more of their necessary administrations, including qualified staff, will be able to do so even if we extend the deadline. It is unacceptable, however, that we force congregations that do not or will not do so to the surface to do so are, of course, forced to do so on a chorus. It would therefore make sense to extend this period, of course, until the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u126	I've seen it for a few years. I don't know if I'll read them in the right order. Comrade Tanko, Kelmin, Sok. Did I see your hands right? Comrade Kelemin, did you raise your hand to discuss it? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, in our parliamentary group, and personally, I note that in the area of these amendments, which are now before us, and these articles, as well as after the discussion now, Mr Rokavac, there are going to be many, many problems in this area. Therefore, we want to contribute to simplifying all these procedures and problems and complications that will take place in this area, and we simply propose that paragraph 31 be deleted. This would, of course, allow the country to draw up in peace some other legislation appropriate to this area; we have been waiting for years and years to see when the property tax will take place. That's not gonna happen. It has already been promised, I do not know how many times this proposal will be implemented long ago. And with these solutions that we now have in this law, we only give further silence to the government so that it does not take a decisive step in the area of law or the enforcement of regulations that would actually tax property in this country. And that would be the only righteous law, for all to be equal. As one is rich, let him also pay taxes on his property. This would, of course, make sense, it will also make sense to abolish the only municipal levies, likely to be collected on such a wide scale in the country of Slovenia. I would then be more just, certainly, like this proposal now, with which there is as much uncertainty as you have now been able to record in this debate. So it's very simple: we propose that this article be deleted and that those taxes that have long been announced and not from anywhere are introduced as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, all those who know more about the financing of municipalities can see that this is the compensation that municipalities need to collect, in fact, only those 90% of municipalities receiving financial compensation. By this provision, they are simply forced by the State to collect compensation, because otherwise, if they do not collect it, they receive a lower amount of financial compensation and are also entitled to a lower amount of eligible expenditure. The 10% of municipalities that have sufficient resources for self-financing do not, in fact, need and have this resource as a supplement to the surplus they already create from a position, I do not know, from a function of position or concentration of the population, as well as better income classes of the population and a type of other benefits such as, for example, parking lots and so on. In short, we propose that this duty, which does not fall within the category of the original revenue of the municipalities, be abolished. And in fact, the State will take care of what it transfers to municipalities through this law, especially to weak municipalities, to municipalities that receive financial compensation where income represents only a small part or a half of the budget, but not enough to additionally burden the population and then compensate for that amount or complete it with the total amount of appropriate spending. This is a cover-up to the state and I think that solving problems in this way should not be allowed, it is in some ways unacceptable. It would make sense for these matters to be abolished and the state to take the role in the new property taxes that we expect from it and to ensure that matters are resolved evenly, equally and uniformly throughout the country. In short, there is no point in charging for such or other reasons, especially areas that are worse financial conditions that have a developmental problem, and these funds that we get from these people additionally through this tax, then we are just compensating. The municipalities receiving financial compensation shall not lose anything if this tax is abolished. Additional works, additional administrations, additional recovery costs are disposed of and, in the vast majority of cases, financial compensation is automatically part of the amount prescribed. There may be some cases that would be exceptions, but a large majority of them do not have a share in collecting this levy in this financial sense absolutely no benefit, since all of them must be covered by a financial compensation under the law at the starting point. It is therefore pointless to insist on such taxes. Otherwise, there are other reasons that may be directed in a different direction, which I also respect and know, but the primary role of this matter is primarily to compensate for the financial imbalance and to relieve the state budget so that it does not contribute to the development less successful areas, but to ensure that they themselves from these poor sources the amount prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Thank you very much. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Much of what I could say about this 218th article and this solution has already been discussed by my colleague Rokavec. So, it is really unsustainable for me to be insolvent building plots, so for areas that the owners have never proposed as wallless building plots themselves, but were - not now speaking for the city of Ljubljana, but I speak for the rural municipalities - but were indeed in some offices, on the proposal of some local officials, defined as such that at once we prescribe some form of compensation for unwalled buildings. In the congregation from which I come, some also have more than a hectare in such unwalled buildings. These unwalled buildings are not, after all, split up; they are today fields, meadows or vineyards and, of course, are paying the owners of the farm tax from these lands - and now, at the same time, we and 218th gave the municipalities the opportunity to put extra burden on them with a certain point, colleague Rokavec said earlier that they have a point 0.2, some municipalities have more when I debated on the municipal council in the way that he did here in Parliament today, I earned this discussion with two reminders. Today, without the risk of getting a warning, I can say that such a thing and such a solution is inappropriate, is unsustainable. In this country, we only know the mechanisms by which our citizens and citizens - or, if you want citizens - are burdened from time to time. We have not taken any decisions that would mean that they would be burdened somewhere to be burdened with any responsibilities that would be burdened. Every now and then, it just loads something together. If I look at these old farmers who have big surfaces, they can't work anymore, but they have to pay all these taxes -- yeah, where do they get them? It is simply not possible to survive in this way, and it should be here in this national assembly before us when we make such decisions. So to us, of course, who have a parliamentary salary, this may seem so demagogistically funny, but the one who gets for some cattle animal that needs to be fed, I don't know how long to feed, the few 10,000, and there's a different story. I could continue with the prices for agricultural products, but unfortunately this composition of the National Assembly is not to mention the governments at all, so composed that it has no hearing about the problem of a small Slovenian man. So we're just loading new and new loads. I am glad that this 218th article has been corrected, that the interpretation of this 218th article has now been stretched out in five new articles on the five pages, these articles have been written, but it seems to me that the matter is still confusing and incomprehensible. I have pointed out on the committee and will be here again: look, we have to correct this 218th article in relation to unwalled buildings, wrote the second paragraph of the new 218.b article, which we have clearly stated that they must have unwalled buildings if they are to be subject to this form of taxation, this is the payment of this contribution, that they must have access to the public road, that they must have a water connection and an electrical connection, or a sewer connection or construction of a well. Well, then, in the same article, we wrote another fourth paragraph, which the Minister says explains this situation a little bit more clearly, and I say that this fourth paragraph is written to make it all unclear. Because if only what is written in the second indent of paragraph 1 were left, the matter would be clear. In this way, paragraph 4 is added, and I will read it for the sake of the public, or it will be published in the Official Journal, and the congregations will then interpret it in their own way. The fourth paragraph shall then read: "It shall be assumed that the parcels of land referred to in the second indent of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided for the provision of drinking water and energy, the disposal of waste and the disposal of waste and access to public road if the area in which they lie is the subject of a national or municipal location plan." Well, it's still fine here, then there's a dot, and then there's another sentence: "If a spatial order is adopted for an area where the land parcels referred to in the second indent of paragraph 1 of this Article are located..." And then he says, "it is considered that they are provided with drinking water and energy, sewage disposal and waste disposal if such parcels have regulated access to the public road network and it is also possible for them to connect to the public water network and public energy network." I ask you, and I also asked the Minister - it is possible to do so for each plot! If you want, it's possible to run from Ljubljana to one pitch in Ormož if I do a little caricature. Of course it's possible! Only under what conditions and at what cost! I have warned about this, but you have left this in writing, so the questions in this regard will continue and this 218th article, although it is now stretched to five pages in the Rapporteur's long explanation of matters, still does not explain precisely enough. To conclude, we support this deadline on September 30th in Novi Slovenija. We have proposed an amendment by October 30th, thus somehow following that the congregations should be given sufficient time, and it is likely, by this time, that due to all these ambiguities, this Article 218, unfortunately, will have to be rectified again, because, as you have written down, the congregations will have to reinterpret it differently: one way, another. And it is not good that the National Assembly, of course, is the one who proposes to adopt such double laws, which are not clear because of this, of course, we are not solving anything, but we are just further entanglement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u132	Let me tell you, it's been reported for quite a while now. We go in the order of colleagues Pukšič, Vizjak, Trophynik, colleague Orazem, Possončev and so on. The minister wants to explain something in the meantime, perhaps this will shorten the discussion. We can give our word to the Minister for Explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I may be able to explain something, although in the light of the discussion in the previous article, I do not know if anything is going to happen. First of all, the government does not change the definition of building land. This definition remains the same as it is. All that's in here is an explanatory clause. The extension of the transitional provision, as proposed by Member Rokavec, is impossible and constitutionally unacceptable, since Article 218 in its fourth paragraph gave time to 1.7.2003 and the Constitutional Court has already begun to judge on the basis of this Article. We too wanted to extend this period and we are in the novel published in the Rapporteur, you certainly looked at it, it was considered that it was done by 31.3.2004. This was our attempt to extend this deadline, and the legislative service threw this out and the committee fixed it; in short, it is unacceptable and this would be a legislative service for your amendment, Mr. Rokavec, also tell you. In fact, this is no problem, because the municipalities have time, not only until March 31st, as we suggested, but until 31.12.2004, as you suggest, they have time later. Of course, it is up to them whether or not they will. For now, I'm going to say "casualty clauses" [[in pomegranates]] The Ministry of Finance has not yet applied the law on the financing of municipalities, but it could. And probably next year, not this year, it will. The fact is that only six municipalities, six in the whole of Slovenia since, I don't know, 197 or 198 have not yet adopted this decree. But we don't know about three because they don't answer our mail. But six of them explicitly said he wasn't there and he didn't intend to. But everyone else did. That is why we talk about the problem of six very small congregations that do not want to do so. I think it is unnecessary for all other municipalities in Slovenia to adapt to these six. Speaking of deadlines, in fact, or the Infrastructure Committee through its amendment, which is now being upgraded by the amendment of the three coalition parties, has in fact only set a deadline for the determination or delivery of data. This deadline is now proposed on 30 September 2004, exceptionally this year, in the coming - 31 March of the current year. This is of course the only thing that matters when the data sets are delivered, but otherwise the municipalities themselves do not give compensation for the use of building land. This is done by the tax administration on behalf of and on behalf of the municipalities on the basis of the information provided by the municipality. However, with regard to the amendment or the justification of the SDS amendment, I must say that it is difficult to understand. You said that paragraph 31 should be deleted in order to abolish the compensation for the use of building land. That was your argument. And let the government make a real estate tax law. If you wanted to achieve this, of course you cannot achieve this with your amendment. The replacement for the use of building land remained in life through the provisions of the Building Lands Act, from, I think, in the 60s or 70s, through the provisions of the Space Regulation Act. With no amendment to this building law, you cannot abolish compensation for the use of building land. We could adjust some provisions, change them. However, if you propose to delete Article 31, you have not achieved exactly what you are explaining to your explanation. Well, speaking of fixing the amount of compensation for the use of building land and the problem raised by Mr Sok, it is necessary to say that the municipalities are left to determine this amount. In some areas that are totally unattractive, and because this can represent 270 thousand dollars for one hectare of uninteresting land, the congregation can say - and I am sure that the municipalities in this case are flexible enough for their citizens - that the compensation there is no tolar. That's what the congregation can say. No one forbids it and is not punished for something like that through a financial settlement or something like that. And I'm sure the congregations will. However, the provision of compensation for the use of building land also for unpaved building land is an instrument of active land policy that assists municipalities. Look, Mr Sok, you often say how widespread we are building on the most high-quality agricultural land. And someone else has repeatedly voiced this criticism. It was precisely because of the provisions so far, until 1.1.2003, that we then corrected this, that this was happening. The municipalities wanted in their spatial plans to have as many walled buildings as possible, i.e. wally land, because the citizens wanted it, it cost them nothing. And then this potential move grew and spread, and settlements spread needlessly, leaving unwalled fillings, including very large fillings in the middle of settlements. Well, the instrument of active land policy allows municipalities to force owners of these land to do something about these lands by fixing compensation for the use of building land. Either they build something there themselves, which is provided for in the spatial plan, or they sell it to someone who's interested in it. But if there is no interest for either of us or for the other, then of course we expect the interest of the citizens to suggest to the congregation that the land ceases to be wally and that the congregation corrects its balance of building land by removing it, coloring it green, if I may say so, thus transforming it back to agricultural land, irresistible, and making the zone of habitability elsewhere. Of course, according to the urban criteria. And this active instrument of land policy was taken by many municipalities in Slovenia with pleasure and good use - already in 2003 and some started in 2004. This is evident by the decisions we receive from the congregations. As I said, all except six and maybe three others, so maybe except nine, have done so and many have applied these very provisions, say, specifically, I remember one of the first in Slovenia, which used this active instrument of land policy, was the youngest Slovenian municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania, and used it very well. So I just want to say this: Article 31 is unnecessary or you do not achieve any of the things you have explained in order to achieve. The same applies to Article 32; they are only explanatory in nature, the obligation to compensate is already in force, the municipalities are exploiting it in the right direction. However, the extension of the time limit laid down in the transitional provision of Article 218 of the existing law is constitutionally inadmissible and is in fact unnecessary. Therefore, there is no harm, Members of the SLS, if this amendment is not adopted. However, from a legislative point of view, you would be inadmissible because the legislative service in Parliament said that you cannot prolong something that was a transitional provision. And after that, the Constitutional Court began to judge, and now the municipalities would be in an unequal position. That is why we support the amendment of the three coalition parties and, above all, the basic text that leads in the direction that I have tried to explain to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u134	Well, it doesn't look like it's going to cut short, but it's going to increase the debate. My friend Pukšič is the first, followed by his colleague Vizjak and Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation! When this law is being considered, it is possible to think back a few years ago. In 1998, a new law on the financing of municipalities was adopted, which entered into force with effect from 1.1.1999. This Law on the Financing of Municipalities also recorded the compensation for building land among the original revenues, but this started to be implemented - I will not remember exactly - something later, I think that by a government regulation, or by a ministry that prescribed that municipalities must raise at least so much and so much money in their area, that is, an average, if they do not do so, they will not get the average of the financial compensation - i.e. for municipalities receiving financial compensation. In general, municipal decrees were drawn up, adopted on municipal councils and started to be implemented — not everywhere else — in order to replace building land when so-called self-contributions ceased. Because it was somehow logical in the congregations that, of course, citizens and citizens would not be double-taxed or double-taxed. In most congregations, of course, this resulted in a decrease in income, since these 2% of the contributions were normal. Again, this is not generalized, but to a large extent it was, they contributed more than, of course, to the replacement of building sites. With this proposal; the amendment, by deleting it, we actually wanted to draw attention to something else; something else to say; that this deletion would not eliminate the decisions or nothing about the collection of building land compensation, but, of course, if that were not the case, this source would not be deducted from the so-called appropriate consumption. Why would this adjustment be good at this time? Also because from 1999 onward, congregations have been burdened with many loads, so that the resources have not changed. And if you look at the statistics of any municipality or on average at the 1999 municipalities, for example, 2003, you will see that in 2003, 2004 the municipalities continue to have a worse difference between what has already been taken, that is to say, by law and stop to finance simple obligations, of course, significantly less remains for investments that are needed in the local community. [[...]] Just as self-sustainment was mainly intended for specific, concrete, clear investments, this measure would compensate for one part of the loss of income due to the large and excessive burdens we have recently made with such local community legislation. It is not unacceptable that, in fact, with this money, we cover the homes of the elderly, the kindergartens, the insurance of the unemployed and the transport of children by buses to schools, etc. In short, that was our primary purpose. It seems good to me that, in the second indent of Article 217.a, it is said that from now on they are not entitled to pay no compensation for building land for those who have built on black. This has been so far, and it has not actually been possible to burden them with the replacement of building plots, let alone legalize matters or undermine them and so on. I'm afraid the inspection services don't work here. Such cases are widespread in the congregations. And if the inspectors took the time and did a review of how many such decisions have been issued by the municipalities and how many have been implemented, they would see that they are below 5% or even below. On the other hand, it is true that with these five leaves, the addition of Article 218 actually makes you a basis or preparation and additionally, I do not know, an obligation. So, you said that just like it is, the compensation of the building's land is collected by the tax office. But of course they get the information from the municipalities. So how to get real real data together. As colleagues have already pointed out, of course, we face the same problems as our colleague Rokavec said, but in every congregation. Minister, you said, by decree, you can say that there is a building plot on that hectare of just zero but it's hard to imagine that then individual plots like that would have to be listed in the congregation, because then all of them would have to be listed in the congregation, and if you're quantifying them with 0 SIT, then of course there will not be what you prescribe, the average that the municipality collects, if not, does not get from this source, then of course it does not get financial compensation, but it is reduced for these financial assets. In short, it doesn't work together. But it is true that in this National Assembly for the past four years it has been said about the so-called real estate tax law, and you have not prepared it, because at one of the seminars it has even been said that this is such a difficult thing, that the ministry somehow does not know how this would work, how it would prepare it. Well, now I have a feeling that the system has been put in place, so that this burden can be passed on to the congregations, so that the congregations can do all of this and, of course, finance it with a database, which will then be collected together, and you will, of course, be able to make this property tax law a peaceful soul. So it seems to me that, for all the reasons that I've listed, it makes sense that this article should be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I personally see this SDS amendment as a resistance to solving the problem of building land or this compensation and, of course, as a result, the taxation of property as it has been imagined for the last four years and intensively for the last two years by the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the coalition contract of this consummated coalition, which remains, the authorities have also announced that the adoption of the real estate tax law will be substantially earlier seen by the light than we are now witnessing. The result is that the State, because it is unable to compile this, does not wish to waive this tax, in particular as regards building land. All the implementation of the collection of these taxes falls on the burden of municipalities. The municipalities did not, or a very large majority did not, collect compensation until it was necessary; until they began to tear the flat-rates from the settlement because they had assessed that they should have picked it up and thus forced the municipalities to start regulating the matter. And then the state thought of all the new, new and higher taxation of the same. Because of their approach to this resolution, the municipalities have, of course, made databases, of course, paid quite a lot of money for this, not to mention the indignation of the people who caused this, which is justified, because the vast majority of people themselves built infrastructure, self-contributions, with their own work and so on, in the Slovenian countryside - in Ljubljana, no, I am sure of that. And the result was that we adopted the congregations in one way or another, hard and with many also companies resistance to individual ones, and of course people, these decrees and taxes on people. And, of course, we are now talking again through the compensation for the spatial policy instrument, when we also want to tax uncharted building land. Again, however, the congregations do so at the expense of the state, for the state has cut off its share and spoken or to compensate less for those congregations, as you say in one way or another. In short, all we have done in this country’s goal of taxing property is to have a whole set of problems in the municipalities by introducing taxes and, of course, by causing resistance to people and, on the other hand, the state has some financial gain. However, it is nothing less than that Parliament has enacted appropriate legislation or inadequate legislation. I agree with the Minister, who says that compensation will not be abolished by this amendment, because it is the subject of one law, which is more or less disabled, and we draw it. This is why it is still in force because no new real estate taxation law has been adopted. I mean, Minister, this is the path that you also wanted to take just before the new year, when you wanted to raise the balance or raise the estimated value of this collected compensation, and thus reduce the leveling of municipalities, and thus increase or force municipalities even more to raise compensation and tax unburied building land, that this is not the right way. The right way is to prepare and perform your task. This is to make a law that will systematically regulate this matter. In short, I can't understand these activities differently, so that with all the problems involved, the local communities will somehow put the system in place over, the current compensation and through their later decisions, and in fact the state will not introduce anything new, but will only regulate the existing ones more systematically. It is said that everything falls badly on the local community, which we are now working hard to introduce these taxes and we are practically doing what the country should do. And this amendment is a resistance to the continuation of such an approach. As far as taxation of building land is concerned, this can be a good instrument for local community spatial policy. Just from what you said, if a congregation determines that an unbuilt building site is unnecessary and wants it back to agricultural land, it will take four years again. Yeah, I don't know. How to change spatial plans differently than according to the procedure envisaged for this. If you can advise me here, I'd be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm giving the word to Willie Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. At first I didn't mean to come over, but the basic reason is that there was so much inaccuracies being said that a person was forced to come over from this point of view, and then I would like to say something about all three amendments in the end, because no one is good. First, false and false is that the congregation does not need this income. Out of 193 municipalities, there is sufficient income, given the appropriate consumption, only 6 municipalities do not need compensation. Nova Gorica, Šempeter-Vrtojba, Piran, Ljubljana, Trzin, 6th, I'm sorry, but I forgot. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, no, no. [[...]] This is entirely misleading that there is no need for compensation to cover, in law, the appropriate consumption. This is replaced with those on the 22nd or 23rd who do not receive financial compensation, but it is a completely different problem or a parallel problem. Another time. The refund is a replacement tax or income because we do not have a property tax or real estate tax. Taxes on real estate are exclusively municipal taxes. And now it doesn't matter if they're talking about property tax or compensation. These are municipal taxes everywhere in Europe. And speculation to get rid of the tax or this unpopular contribution would therefore get more out of the state budget; the respected colleagues you are advocating are in the wrong place. In the system, the municipality has to provide its own revenue, self-financing, even if you want to under the European Charter on Local Self-Government, and those who for justifiable reasons cannot do so are entitled to aid, that is to say, in the next order is transfer from the state budget. It's nice to talk, Mr Sok and the like, about speculation, but we don't want to have more from the budget. But it's, like, a colleague of Praises once said, it's non-European and it's completely out of logic. But it is not popular to talk about it, as I am now speaking, but I believe it; there are no voices with this. And let's stop talking about it here because it doesn't belong here. The problem of financing, financial settlement, is a serious problem that needs to be addressed, but not by such speculations. The next untruth, not just inaccuracy, is that the compensation began in 1999. That's not true! Refunds under the law are an old commitment in the budget. At times, even if it wasn't a 90 percent recovery, there was no financial settlement in socialism, I'll say. In this independent country, this sanction, which is also prescribed by law, is unfortunately never sufficiently implemented or sanctioned by the Ministry of Finance; then there would be no such speculation. It is also because of speculation and inappropriate sanctions that you are now criticising that a number of parties have emerged from Article 218. I am responsible for claiming that Article 218, however modest it may have been, combined with conduct and other regulations, was able to implement municipal decrees correctly, without problems and to introduce a compensation if he had knowledge, political will and everything else. It's a relief now, nothing new. Some people read wrong because you think they're wearing some kind of relaxation or something. He doesn't carry anything in that sense. He's wearing, very frankly, one extra commitment -- you know which one? - that agricultural farms will have to be paid because where a building permit has been issued, as a rule, no compensation has been collected from agricultural establishments, which has not been banned, for political reasons. It's one of the flowers if I say so directly what brings new, otherwise nothing. If anyone wanted to, he could have introduced, of course, who didn't want to, he speculated that he would get more of these speculations from the country, but we already have a Slovenian feature, which the group will draw more from the state budget, and that's why we've come so far. Otherwise, there will be no change. Of course, as far as the deadlines are concerned, I'm sorry, but there are some confusions. The confusion began last year with each other's marriages, due to the wrong interpretations of the tax system itself, which some of you have inherited. This is specifically March 31st. I can't understand that none of the professions would warn you of that. No! No! December 31st must be the last load, theoretically and practically, under existing legislation. 31 March is the deadline for the issue of burden decisions. And we got it all mixed up. We started with that energy or a substitute that went out of the way, that there was no more, and the tax office was saying something about it not doing anything. And now it's unwittingly dragging, as it were, and now it's even here in the amendment. That's not true! This is unacceptable for us to carry data by 31 March. The value of the point should be adopted in the current year for the following year, and then data should be kept because otherwise there will be conflicts. Even the tax industry has acted differently in the past. However, since the tax industry did not do something on its own, it then hid itself for it and kept it quiet. And I ask you not to make this date legal or not legal, March 31st. It doesn't help the community. This made sense during last year’s or this year’s year’s year, for this or other reason, because the congregation failed to perform its tasks in due time. In order to carry the data by 31 March all the following years, however, it is unnecessary and unacceptable. Because what does that mean? This means that the debtors will only receive their decisions once in the summer, in the middle of the year for the current financial year. And it's simply to the detriment of the debtors, it's also to the detriment of the municipalities, it's no good to anyone, it's just a silence. For a good plan and responsible decision of the municipal council on the value of the point, which must be adopted by law by 31 December, it is necessary to have all the information for the following year. Not that we'll be here by 31 March - this was the first time possible. Of course, the whole thing comes from irresponsible behavior. Now there are other deadlines - and my fellow Member group is proposing a wrong date for another reason. Under the law, the government must provide the basis for the budget by 1 October. And if it does not have information on its own revenue of the municipalities, it cannot do so responsibly in the procedure for preparing the budget. For this reason, too, every deadline - already September 30th is questionable, but to some extent it would still be acceptable for this transitional or suspicious year, if I say so, but no further. They have to be done in the current year for next year, or there will be negative consequences, which I have already talked about and would not repeat. But everything else is, excuse me, speculation, how not to burden and be popular, but to draw it to the state budget. This, of course, cannot be done because, however it will be, sooner or later, this property tax, even though it will not be in this mandate, unfortunately, as it will be in the future, because there is no political will and courage, will have to come sooner or later. However, what will happen then If from the past to the present the transition from the walled to the wallless when the property tax is available, there will be a transition to agricultural and forest areas. Then there will be no exceptions, for they are nowhere to be found, since all of them are property or property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u140	You want a replica? Please, Comrade Sok. Well, that's not why you have to pick up. But if he said something wrong and you want to fix it, then I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Yeah, yeah, he got it all wrong. So, I didn't propose and advocate anywhere that this decree, this tax or whatever you want, this tax will be abolished. However, I have been very committed to the fact that unwalled building sites, which are not communally equipped, are not burdened by this tax. I'll tell you why. It is wrong to think that real estate should be taxed. This is wrong thinking, for the properties that people have made, come to them, have come through the incomes that have already been taxed. It is logical, however, that the State or the municipality may collect a compensation for the costs incurred in maintaining this property. So if there's a public road, if there's a pipeline, if there's a sewer and so on. This is the logic of the real estate tax in Western European countries. Thus, it is said that these things can be charged, but not by the way that this 218th article is explained to people when the state has passed law, and the congregations have to burden your property on this basis. I've been begging for it myself. And there's something else about the financial settlement. This is what all democratic states know. The municipalities that do not collect enough of their own revenue with their own resources only receive financial compensation from the State. If that were not the case, then, of course, rural communities are very badly written down and this would, of course, be contrary to what we want to achieve with coherent regional development. This new law, in Article 218, at least I interpret it this way, defines much more precisely when unpaved buildings are subject to this taxation. So I understand when they're municipally equipped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u142	We are in the middle of a debate. It is not necessary, as I would say, to explain your different position with a replica. I'll give you my word after that. Indeed, the replica should only be intended to explain the wrong position, to eliminate the misunderstanding if it has been made. But the debate is going on. Naked Trophynik, followed by his colleague Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u143	It is a replica, solely because of misunderstandings, due to incorrect indications. The unwalled building land is not synonymous with the communally equipped land. These are two things that are fundamentally different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Good. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, I would also be happy if we could live in a country where there would be no taxes, of course, which some want to tell us today. I would like to go on and say that this time I fully agree with my colleague Trofenic on the opinion he has given, or the views he has expressed. And, of course, that this matter is confusing and incomprehensible is spoken of by those who have completely different purposes and desires. And it's not right that there's still a few things left in the air today, as they were said. In this story alone, I have been spinning for years, and I know how great the pressure of the congregations is to obtain and acquire as many walled surfaces as possible when changing long - term plans. Of course, now that this matter may have cost someone something, these lands have suddenly become undesirable, or they would like to be abandoned. And I absolutely support the intent that this law has, that is urbanism and support urbanism in that it can also be something that comes to the fingers of speculators and those who have acquired large unwalled building areas, which are always without function, remain unburied and the settlements spread to agricultural land. And I also have to say that right out of the mouth of those colleagues that you might hear playing on this pitch half an hour ago, you hear a completely different tune today. And I think it is right that, first of all, as far as spatial regulation is concerned, in Slovenia, things are arranged in such a way that we force those who have these surfaces into some way and give them some thought about what to do on such unwalled building sites. This is what some congregations have done before the marriage was given, which I think Europe also knows. Indeed, here with my colleague Rokavac, I also agree that changes to the long-term plan, if the congregation does not reach them until the end of May, will not be possible to take them away by the end of the year. That's a fact. But I think it's right that this process has begun. That this process has begun and that the owners of these unwalled buildings will also become responsible owners. Because I think property is not the last burden. Not only is it nice to get, make, and so on, but it is also a burden. I would also like to say that in most Slovene municipalities, the compensation for buildings has been collected for decades. Decades and decades. And the greatest resistance and most of the vocabulary appears where this has not been done and where there is no tradition and where it would not continue. If only I could. Therefore, certain financial sanctions were needed. For here it is not, after all, an inequality before the law. It's not about things, it's about one poor one rich one. Because in one congregation, not everyone is exclusively rich, but in another environment, all are exclusively poor. But that's how we had things set up. And in Slovenia, I think that by last year 42 municipalities, where they didn't want or want to charge under a variety of conditions, because there is no problem, the difference to the appropriate consumption came from the national minority. And of course, there's no problem here. And many would like to keep this tradition, good for them, in sayings. And, of course, that's why there are so many things today, the confusion and misunderstanding of this law. Personally, I am pleased that Article 218 of that segment, which defined unpaved buildings, has been defined more precisely. This is where the profession warned of trouble. I mean, there have been problems, and we have warned, backed up by their opinions, that there might be a lack of clarity in a possible large number of complaints that could also have some unforeseeable effect that might be difficult. That's why I think it's good, and that quality is now defined. In fact, this amendment to the law has only upgraded what has been accepted to be more precise and easier to prepare. Therefore, it seems to me that the transitional period of this year is absolutely necessary, as it will be necessary to prepare now in these months, at the local level of the records, records for unpaved building sites. The municipality, which does not have a record of built-up buildings today, and the municipality, excuse me, after nine and a half years of local self-government in Slovenia, would almost say that it no longer meets the conditions for its existence. If, in these years, she has failed to settle the matter within three mandates, and then one does wonder whether, if so, all the congregations are fully capable and qualified. So it's only about this part of the record. However, the fact that it is being updated in the opposite direction is a matter of order in a particular congregation. Each year these records need to be updated and, of course, the responsibility of the congregation’s leaders is very different. And those who would like to keep these things unsettled, but none of them would know about the finances, they would like to continue to do so in terms of the law and the regulations it gives, because it would be exclusively for this benefit. I also think that, as I know the matter, the real congregation can accept a very reasonable tax. In our congregation, we decided that, for example, the beginning of this tax on approximately an average unbuilt building plot of 1,000 square meters, which is about the average size of the building plot, would be equivalent to or equal to the taxation for about a residential house of 120 square meters. This means that this is approximately balanced. Of course, there must be someone here who's got a "guest" if I say "domestic." It can't be some kind of free hunting now, where there'll be a lot of bad will. In this respect, matters need to be considered as to how much they are taxed and how big this problem is from an urban point of view in a particular environment. If the pressure on the building is high, it's happening in my environment, then this instrument is necessary. If this is an undeveloped environment, then it must be a minimum sum, which is barely symbolic, if I say so. And since we are different in Slovenia, then we must have this matter at the level of legislation, although we are unitedly resolved and I welcome the fact that the law allows each environment to adapt to itself, as it will be, I will say, more precisely define the environment in terms of its interests and objectives. And in this, this law is good because it allows this freedom to local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Good. My colleague Pozsonchev, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u147	Yeah. Thank you very much. I think this law deserves a flag for more coherent regional development because it is extremely helpful. For these habitable lands are not in Ljubljana, they are not in Celje, but somewhere in the periphery, where we should help in all ways, but not the last money taken from those poor people's pockets, because there is no one there to build. It's land, but there's no one to build. Let's just say in Radmojanci there are 30% fewer people than there were ten years ago. And even if we had no sense of justice, we would at least have common sense, because it says that where it's not possible to take it, and you're doing it, with your help, the state takes it to those on the periphery. It's a very nice act.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Of course, I do not fully agree with this last part of the debate. The fact is, of course, these taxes will burden those who do not already have everything taken from their pockets or, of course, have lost their jobs and so on, they will now be burdened with this. But if you think it's right, of course you're going to vote that way. Far from it, far from the truth and, of course, its purpose in this decree, in this amendment to the law and in this article, it is that some have speculated for decades and that some decades have been collected and already have, in the former Yugoslavia, we have had compensation for building land and others, of course, not even a century. Or in other words, it means that our village is then where there was no substitute for building land, so it is developed and we have such poor, poor congregations. That's not true. It is true, however, that speculation and stealing was done if you want, by means of a 1998 Law on the Financing of municipalities, when you changed from 30 to 35% of the income when the urban, large, rich municipalities received five yur per capita, and the poor municipalities received 500 tolar per capita and all are subject to the same laws, the same burden. Here's the truth. And it is true that 20 municipalities in Slovenia have adequate spending there to 80%, so of course they can also steal in billions and no one gets hurt. Just look at the reports of the Supervisory Committees [[.....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u150	My friend Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Don't talk about speculation, don't talk about it. [[...]] [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u152	My friend Puksic. I'm asking everyone for peace in the hall. You have the floor, but please measure it in such a way that it will not trigger objections in the sent-off benches. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u153	He's the president, I agree, but the truth is, it hurts. That's true. And it's true that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u154	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Had over 30 years, I know it wasn't really [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u156	Look, [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u157	One hour's work so we don't have a self-conspirator. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u158	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u159	We paid from municipal to local self-contributions, which were over two or three [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u160	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u161	Or four percent. [[...]] That's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u162	Let me tell you. Because of your position, I will not take you or anyone else's word. The conditions in the Rules of Procedure are to withdraw the word if it is offensive, inappropriate or running on an item which is not on the agenda. Please let me perform by explaining your point of view. But everyone else, please don't bother him. Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u163	Therefore, to speak and agree, in the first place, I agree with all those who say that it is necessary to have such taxes directed so that the congregations can fund everything themselves, absolutely. However, with such legislation as is now impossible. And differences in development - that is, in our regional development, colleagues and colleagues - statistics show that they are increasing, not shrinking. They're not even standing there. And even where they were standing, of course, they were shrinking. According to the available data, we have about 4% of GDP at local level in Europe. And when you talk and compare with European countries, how it is there with the funding of municipalities and, of course, less dependent on the national minority, of course this relationship is different or these numbers are different, up to 30%. This information is clear, too. I said before, in this case it is not just the bad side of this article, if you want, it is good to tax what was illegal now, because so far it has not been possible to do so. And of course, there was someone who didn't even have the documents, of course, and then I couldn't charge him with the replacement of the building land. The fact is, of course, it is not true that those we take for it, we count and want from the state few more, but we want to distribute the burden a little bit, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u164	Comrade Rokavec has the floor and is followed by his colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. First of all, there'll be no misunderstanding. I have already said in my opening remarks that it is an essential issue of time and that I actually appeal that, even if our amendment was not adopted, the amendment tabled by the three coalition groups should be extended until the end of this year. From the debate already held by Comrade Trophynik, it would probably be worth considering - I agree with the Minister that some of the solutions in our amendment can be constitutionally disputed, where they are established in the previous fourth paragraph of Article 218. But it also holds that clarifications and procedures, which are very clearly elaborated in the new Articles 218a to 218d, have also brought with them new tasks and ways of doing these tasks for the congregations. Only if we look at Article 218 can we find out in the field of unwalled buildings as well as for already-built building plots, what the procedure is. The municipalities, which have, of course, implemented procedures on the basis of the decisions adopted so far, have not implemented them in accordance with what is now proposed here. Because of the speed to try to capture these revenues again this year, we will also go around this possibility and then, of course, also put a higher bill. Here's the key problem. Therefore, it would be necessary, in my opinion, if it is not really acceptable for our amendment to adopt the amendment of the three coalition parties, but in the third reading, that this deadline should only be corrected by the end of this year, but generally not for this year, but for each year, and we will probably also make more order with regard to these dates, by which time Durs also needs to provide the necessary data and, of course, that then the doses of compensation will also be timely. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u166	Thank you very much. And last debater, Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is likely that your wish for the majority here in this Chamber to conclude this debate and that I and everyone in front of me are already too much as discussers to all reasonable people in this Chamber, and probably also in front of screens in Slovenia. But despite all of this, this demagogism, which has been going on in the country or in this national council for a long time, and if we say, half an hour at a time, and nothing bad, let's go to the vote, and where the matter falls, it falls. The mayor and the mayor, would you listen to me? I listened to you. A lot of what I was going to say was that the debaters in the second part said, but... [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] They're bothering me. With all the stories we're listening to here, one would wish that we would finally get that government from the sun to the sun and get the country when the taxes are gone and we'll raise the state budget from 1,500 billion to 2 billion and share it with all those who are just waiting for help from the country. That would be the perfect option. Of course, I want to have a government that is capable of doing this, but if not, then I should have renounced the demagogies and such rulerships forever. Look, in the debate we have Article 218 and the amendments, which speak mainly of the deadlines that the local community must meet. But we are talking about everything else, except in this last part of the debate, about what the hands are supposed to mean. The fellow Member mentioned that in the Ormož Congregation he had been reminded twice of the topic by talking about stories that did not fit the point of the debate. Here we can talk about everything else, except the 218th and amendments to this article, which means that we are functioning worse than the Ormož municipality, by not saying that the Ormož municipality does not have to operate on a level. And that's been going on - how long? - It takes an hour. And we're selling stories like we're overloading everything, even though my friend Pukšič said so. We have made our own contribution by contributing to unpaved buildings, but this money is much less. But we listen to the story of how we burden citizens. At the same time, we also found that we had this contribution a long time ago, even in Yugoslavia, and that the universal Slovenia is selling that this is a new contribution, although nothing is true. This means that the purpose of this one-hour debate is completely different from that of Article 218 and the amendments to this Article, and that we do not respect the Rules of Procedure at all to talk about what we want to resolve, although if I have understood matters correctly, it is almost all the same as what solution is being taken, especially for those municipalities that are functioning normally and can carry out things. And that the walled building land was also the citizens' desire all the time, but, of course, when you come from 10 tolars to charge 3 tolars per unit, that's some contribution a citizen has to make, it's dissatisfaction. I also experience in the congregation, how we will not vote to burden anyone in any way, because the state must provide us with the means for our functioning and survival. That's a very nice story. But that's not how the state or the municipality works or the family or the individual entities don't. And, of course, it would be good, because it is also my desire to move to a vote, to once end the demagogy at this point and to vote on a solution that will then apply to all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I invite you in the following order: first, Mr Minister, Mr Vizjak and Mr Kelemina. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u169	Thank you. I'll be brief. I called earlier. That's all I want to say. Few laws go to public treatment in all Slovene municipalities. This novel's gone. We have received confirmation from the municipalities of Slovenia. No official comment from the congregations was made on these solutions. One month's treatment. The law went to the state council before. It was unanimously supported by the Commission for Local Self-Government. So, really, what I'm saying is that we really tried to do the maximum possible treatment with all the interested people. That's why it's really hard to understand such a debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u171	Of course, I wanted to object to Mr Juban, but I can't follow the rules of procedure, because there was something else in between. But whatever. I would like to highlight a very different view of this problem, as it is attributed to it, for example, I myself have come to know in its implementation. I am not talking about the fact that taxation of building land, the taxation of building and non-structured buildings is unnecessary so that it has to be abolished and so on. I know that the state cannot function without the introduction of a particular tax system, and this is also one of the subjects that need to be taxed and which are, last but not least, taxed. In fact, taxation of building land is even a very good instrument in the congregation’s spatial policy. And he's as good as he is. However, the point is that I resent the Ministry, indeed, and the Government, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that this problem has not been dealt with as it said it would, at the beginning of this mandate. Over taxes on real estate. I don't know what was done, except for one experiment, which was based on some orthophotos taken in the autumn of last year when they wanted to increase this revenue gap for the municipalities' compensation. They said you'd pick up more. That's why we're gonna lower your balance. So to those congregations that do not pick up or reach an appropriate consumption. And then we started shouting and screaming and of course we kept the existing system somehow. I just want to say that such an approach is that even now the municipalities that will not harmonise it are still being punished. There's probably a way out of this outfit that's leaving in six months. At the same time, however, it is unacceptable that it has not gone forward and has not provided Parliament with a systematic solution to this problem, which we have all been looking forward to with regard to the forecast itself signed in the form of a treaty. So I can't imagine tax reform either, forgive my fellow LDS, I can't imagine tax reform without this very important law, I don't know it. You obviously know when we warned about the law on the income of legal persons, about the law on income, you said, this is how we decided that we would partially go to tax reform. The first step is the two related laws, followed by the other. Where are the other laws? No, you've decided to "buzz" again, according to your household, the congregations, that they're harassing their people and imposing taxes. And they suffer all the costs associated with records, all the costs associated with a number of comments and the dissension of citizens, so that, of course, someone will eventually sit down with some tax that will actually cover what others have done. I do not like this approach, and therefore I also appreciate this amendment as, I would say, a protest against the existing approach to punishment, now of the municipalities, if they are not greedy and if they are not doing what one minister or government has intended.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u172	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss these amendments to Article 31. In particular, I would like to point out that one of the previous discussers is a good expert on local self-government, as well as these taxes or burdens, municipal duties as such, and I would like to point out that by this law we will now additionally burden some of the facilities that have not been burdened so far, namely agricultural facilities such as farms, as well as larger economic buildings such as barns and so on. And if I'm not mistaken, if I'm not mistaken, there's a lot of them in Prekmurje. And it is likely that the suburban farmers will be extremely happy to pay extra taxes and additional burdens on these facilities. And I don't know how you'll apologize in your constituency, Mr. Juban. But viv mainly advocates these extra burdens. I'm just saying that farmers are already burdened enough and that they don't need to be burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I think I can close the debate on the amendments. Can I? Mr. Juban, you wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u175	Why would they always let me go? My colleague Kelemin must have given me this story, a lot of empty barns in Prekmurje and so on, and so on, Mr Minister said nicely how the law can be implemented. And in an environment where I am also involved in these stories in the congregation, we solved such things that the agricultural part was almost zero and the rest was part of a system. And it's an additional demagogy to use an environment you don't even know, and to tell stories that aren't real at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Now I can conclude the debate on the three amendments to Article 31. So we're moving on to a decision. First of all, we will vote on the amendment under order number 1, noting that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under numbers 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, of which the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is the proposer. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 15 votes against 36. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are therefore also deciding on an amendment under order number 3, three of the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this amendment. This, because I said earlier, is a good knowledgeer of local self-government and of these taxes, a member of the National Assembly, argued that this makes no sense, and as a councilman himself, 12 years old, I know this issue, and I know that this provision to send this information by 31 March is not acceptable. She's not acceptable, really. I'm like, we get first half in our congregation, say, this to pay. After all, I paid for both quarters or both, because then I pawned the bills and lost them. Thus, it will not be possible to pay these taxes on time, nor will it be possible for the congregations to use them. It's going to be a delay and it doesn't make sense to suggest things like this that are going to burden things. I would also like to ask that the ministry be defined, if possible, but now that we are explaining the voice, it is more difficult. In short, I object to such a proposal because it will not contribute to anything, but only complicate things more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 32 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can I close the debate? I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 13 votes to 40. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 1 and 31. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I interrupt the consideration of this item on the agenda, which we will continue later when the amendments are tabled and we will be able to deal with them. I hereby suspend the consideration of this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I warmly welcome the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who I give him my word for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Sybil Svilan, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared and submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which is a fundamental law governing this important area of our financial system. The primary objective of the proposal is to bring the law into line with the legal order of the European Community, in terms of the final alignment with the directives adopted and, therefore, the proposed adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Since the entry into force of the law, European rules have been adopted to date relating to amended provisions on the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings. The operation of insurance intermediaries and agents and the bankruptcy and liquidation of insurance companies was reorganized. In addition, with the amendment of the Insurance Act, this law will also be aligned with the Act on Economic Companies, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Offences and the new Slovenian accounting standards. Hereinafter, we would like to mention just a few of the key solutions that the proposal for a law offers. In accordance with the new Directives on the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings, new higher amounts of guaranteed capital or new higher thresholds are proposed for calculating the required minimum capital. Certain changes are also introduced in the calculation of the required capital. Existing insurance undertakings authorised to operate in the Republic of Slovenia will, in accordance with the amendment of the law, have to follow and adapt to the revised capital requirements, as the other members of the European Union, by the third month of 2007 or be able to obtain an additional period of two years from the supervisory agencies for harmonisation. It is estimated that some insurance companies in Slovenia will have to recapitalise in the future. Furthermore, the proposal for a law is also aligned with the bankruptcy directive and the liquidation of insurance companies. The main innovation proposed for harmonisation is that individual actions in the liquidation and bankruptcy process, when they become legal in the Member State where the insurance undertaking has been authorised to carry out business, also have effects in all Member States of the European Community. An important part of the proposed new provisions in the law also relates to non-compliance with the Directive on insurance representation and intervention since 2002, with the new provisions laying down and significantly improving customer information and their general protection in relation to insurance undertakings. In this regard, in particular, it is necessary to mention the abolition of prior certification of insurance conditions for compulsory automotive and supplementary health insurance, the elimination of systematic ratification of insurance conditions and premium prices, the modification of provisions on the localisation of covered assets, the addition of the law to the use of derivatives and the establishment of an out-of-court resolution system for consumer disputes. The bill also brings certain novelties comparable to those established in the Insurance Act, pardons, the Banking Act and the Securities Market Act. Thus, amendments to the status provisions and to the part of the law governing insurance companies are proposed, which is essential in this regard, to unify legislation in the field of the financial system as a whole. As an important novelty, it is necessary to mention that between the provisions governing insurance operations of insurance Member States in the Republic of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency is empowered to grant the branch of the insurance undertaking from a Member State additional conditions for carrying out activities in the Republic of Slovenia which are in the public interest. However, with regard to the conduct of insurance operations in a Slovenian insurance undertaking in third countries, it is allowed to carry out these transactions not only through the branch but also directly. Among the amendments and additions which constitute compliance with the other provisions of the Republic of Slovenia are the essential criminal provisions which comply with the law on offences and the provisions relating to the new law on public agencies relating to the discharge and designation of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Respected Members and Members, the proposed provisions of the Law will introduce certain higher requirements in accordance with the European directives in the functioning of insurance companies in our country, in particular as regards capital adequacy, and on the other hand some solutions are proposed which will allow greater freedom in the insurance sector to resolve their business plans and thus allow them to operate in a competitive manner similar to European insurance undertakings in the common European market. A major aim of the bill is also to further improve the position of weaker parties in the insurance relationship. The bill was coordinated with the Ministry of Justice, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and interested associations. These are in particular the Slovenian Insurance Association and the Association of Insurance Agencies. The implementation of the provisions of the law will have no financial implications for the budget. However, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has adopted several amendments when considering the law, which complement the draft law accordingly. In accordance with the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the proposed solutions or amendments are appropriate and therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present to us the report of the committee. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the procedure, the Committee held a hearing, second reading of the draft law by emergency procedure. We took note of numerous comments from the Slovenian Insurance Association, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the extensive and substantive opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the debate, we came up with most of the open issues, in our view, the best solutions. In this respect, we have taken into account in particular all the comments made by the legislative service, namely on 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 13, 15, 20, 21, 32, 40, 41, 42, 44, 46, 53, 54, 56, 57, 60, 62, 64, 65, 69, 76, 81, 83, 92, 93, 96, 99, 100, 101, 105, 107, 121, 132, 134, 138, 138 to 148, 149, 152, and 158, Article. I listed the articles mainly because all of these articles have been amended and it was therefore possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make appropriate amendments to this Article. I propose, fellow Members, that in view of what I have just said, the amended proposal for a law is so reformed and so coordinated among all stakeholders that it is worthy and necessary to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will first be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u185	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr Secretary of State with escorts, colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, this is one of those laws that is extremely important to our society. But it was long, complicated, and the text was poorly prepared. It is so that one wonders what has just been said that our legislative and legal service had to prepare a whole series of amendments, of which 363 articles at least one third had to be changed, which is of course a matter of thanks to our service. And also the teaching that sooner or later we need to start preparing these things better and sending them to the National Assembly. In fact, if you look at it, and those who have not done so, this accompanying letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, when he sent this proposal to the National Assembly, it is worth looking at, because it is full of arrogance and also blackmailing the National Assembly by what we will suffer if it is not accepted before 1 May. Well, this law is part of a whole series of laws that have recently been sent here mainly under tax legislation. And, of course, you've taken a lot of work and a lot of quick work. In fact, one wonders that in such complicated laws as these, we should consider whether we are doing the right and right to our country and our citizens, because this is how we need to familiarise ourselves with these proposals and, in particular, if we get the text of the amendments to the bench in the State or Committees just before the beginning of the meeting. Let me mention that this law in a series of laws that have some history is also bad, because for this law it should have said that this area has been the whole time of our understanding or consideration so far of various conflicts and conflicts of interest as well as corruption. This law is very complicated, and a person should almost have practice in accounting in order to understand the whole thing well, but it is relatively well made up. However, I must say, although the applicant is talking about that, I think that out of the five Directives of the European Union plus the "PR review" [[?]] The proposals accepted everything, but that is not true, because the Agency for Secure Surveillance had some good proposals and they were not accepted, and this is actually a great harm. Let me mention that some things remain unresolved and will need to be settled sooner or later. One such issue is the spread of the balancing reservation against the reserves. Because today we have heard one new winged woman who is saying better is a bad marriage than none, then if we go after it, we could say that this law is worth supporting, if I hope that we will get further improvements sometime in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party does not want to. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented to us by Mr Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support that proposal for the law for the following reasons. As certain status provisions on post-transfer contracts are being supplemented and the conditions for members of the board of shareholders are being adequately regulated. This is closely linked to the unification of legislation, the real banking law, the securities market law, and at the same time means both the unification of business and the acquisition of permits, both in Slovenia and in the European space. We will also support this law because it contains the new higher amounts of guaranteed capital used in calculating the required minimum capital, by introducing certain changes also in the calculation of the required capital. It is also necessary to emphasise the news that individual actions in the liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings in the event of effects in the Member State where the insurance undertaking has obtained a business authorisation have simultaneous effects in all other Member States of the European Community. An important part of the amendments to that Act also concerns the harmonisation of the Directives on insurance and representation and intervention by extending the circle of information to which the insurance representative and the intermediary must inform the insurance undertaking. We believe that a system of out-of-court resolution of disputes between parties and insurance intermediaries is being established. This provides for the liability of intermediaries for damage arising from their activities as a novelty compared to the current arrangements. For all these reasons, Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law as a complementary proposal by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because we believe that it will allow our insurance companies to succeed or be competitive enough in a firm competitive fight with foreign insurance companies to maintain a proper circle of insurers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We're moving to second reading. We have two amendments on the bench before us, both of which have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Amendment to Article 134 and to Article 158. I am opening the debate on Article 134 and the amendment to this Article. Because no one wants to discuss we'll cross you you wanted to discuss the amendment, Mr. Svilan? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I would only briefly say that the Government supports this amendment because it contributes to the clarity of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I invite honourable Members and Members who are nearby to the Chamber because we will vote. We therefore vote on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 134. The government supports him. We're voting. There's more of us in the hall. I'm asking the other colleagues and colleagues nicely, but there's only a few votes ahead of us today. I'd like to invite you to the hall. Secondly, we are voting on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 134. We're voting. Unfortunately, the second vote was not successful either. I'm sure there's enough of us in the hall together. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will hold the third vote in 10 minutes, which is the third time at 16:00 and 50 minutes we are voting on the amendment to Article 134. At 3 p.m. in48 minutes, we are voting for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u191	Your Honor! For the third time, we will therefore vote on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 134. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 43 Members and Members voted against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 158 and the amendment of the same motions to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 40 Members and Members voted in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to the 134th and 158th articles of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. Mr. amendment wants a no. [[...]] [[...]] I ask the representative of the government whether the law is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We do not want to table amendments or anything relating to these articles, and the law is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We can see that the amendments adopted have not led to a lack of harmonisation of the bill, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 44 Members and Members voted against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE CONSIDERED Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic in the European Economic Area in a coherent list . The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no debaters. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Majda Potrat to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats has repeatedly pointed out the delay in ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and will now support the ratification law. By October last year, the optional protocol adopted in New York on 6 October 1999 was signed or ratified by 56 Member States of the United Nations. The Optional Protocol is an important new instrument to ensure effective legal protection of women's rights and to eliminate their discrimination. It enables effective action against violations of the rights arising from the Convention. It establishes a committee to eliminate discrimination against women who can receive and deal with communications from individuals or groups claiming to have been violated by any rights. Therefore, its ratification is an expression of our country's commitment to respect human rights and determination to prevent and eliminate any form of discrimination against women. Since human rights and the right to equality between women and men are already guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by applicable legislation, there is no deficit in this regard. However, it is not possible to overlook the phenomenon of direct or indirect discrimination against women in our country. Since women represent almost half of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia, and as women's employment rates are increasing, I would like to draw attention to research that identifies the vertical and horizontal segregation of women in the labour market, as well as the unequal pay that women receive for the same work done or for work of equal value. On average, women receive 12.2 percent less than men with university education and even 20.7 percent less than men. The Labour Relations Act lays down the principle of equal pay. It also prohibits direct and indirect discrimination. Sexual harassment in the workplace is a widespread phenomenon according to surveys, with the greatest problem being that the tolerance rate to this phenomenon is very high. This is also why victims usually choose informal ways of reacting. Formalization is an exception rather than a rule. However, the Labour Relations Act explicitly prohibits sexual harassment. The rejection of such practices, for example, must not be grounds for discrimination in employment. However, there is a possible burden of proof on the employer’s part. If an employee resigns from sexual harassment, the employer must pay her a pension. It also prescribes a fine if it does not provide protection against sexual harassment. I wonder how many such cases of the exercise of this right we know. Several times it has been pointed out that there is discrimination when entering into a job on call and choice. This time I would like to draw your attention to the problems faced by disabled workers. For example, in the case of overtime, work by standard, work through working time, they often face simultaneous discrimination in several areas, such as access to employment, in the workplace, in access to maternity assistance. Lack of data makes it difficult to assess the situation of Roma women. Whether they are looking for employment or remain in the traditional role of caring for home and family. From meetings with Roma women, I can only find that they feel discriminated twice: because of their ethnicity and because of their gender. The Labour Relations Act also prohibits indirect and direct discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, and does not explicitly state sexual orientation among the unacceptable reasons for job failure, although other categories are specifically mentioned. In view of the perceived inadmissibility of the same-sex orientation in our society, it is impossible not in practice to discriminate against women of the same sex. The fate of the same-sex partnership law is eloquent evidence of this claim. Although education and education are non-discriminatory and should provide equal opportunities for children of both sexes, in school, especially in the organisation of everyday life in school, in concrete practice and teaching, communication between students and teachers is maintained by mechanisms that teach girls how to lose and how not to win. The elimination of stereotyped thinking about gender roles in society will therefore be an important and long-term task. This was just a few points to the practice which deviates from the legal rules and shows that ratification of the optional protocol is also important for the protection of women's rights in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-21-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u195	Thank you very much. My fellow men warned me that some positive discrimination was present at this moment when we allowed you to speak for a minute and some time later. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law because it has not even notified the non-compliance of the law. We're voting! There are 54 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - It's on On the contrary, the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on police cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The bill was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no reported debaters. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - It's on On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on international road transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no reported debaters, nor have amendments been adopted in the context of the second reading. Therefore, there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving to third reading. This is for decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol for the prevention, suppression and punishment of trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children, complementing the United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no reported debaters, there are no amendments adopted, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the law. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On behalf of the President of the European Union, the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The representatives want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no reported debaters, so we are moving on to a third hearing, which is to decide on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're going to 25. Agenda item - On the defence of the bill on the ratification of the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no public debaters, nor have any amendments been tabled, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Your Honor! Amendments were announced for the only unfinished item of today's agenda. That's the 26th point. Mr Anderlich, Head of the LDS Club of Parliament, announced the preparation of the amendments in the third reading. Since they're not here yet, we'll do this point tomorrow after the end of the agenda. Allow me to give you another message from the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. He wants to inform you that the Finance Committee will be in the big salon tomorrow at 8:30. Thank you all very much for your cooperation. I hereby adjourn the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
