ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a good day to all! I begin the continuation of the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Prime Minister and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are very welcome among us! I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Michael Brejc, Anton Butolen, Ivan Kebrich and Aloise Peterle. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, the President's proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of Mr. Ives Waigle as Minister for Foreign Affairs. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Mr Anton Rop proposed to the National Assembly on 24.6.2004 that Mr Iv Wigel be appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to take the floor and invite the Prime Minister of the Magi. Anton Rope for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you the proposal to appoint a Minister for Foreign Affairs. The candidate I propose has long experience in foreign policy, and I am sure he is the one. To date, he has performed important tasks within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where he was Secretary of State for Multilateral and Bilateral Affairs. In his long career, he performed many important tasks. Among other things, the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Sweden was accredited in all eight Nordic and Baltic countries, and he was also the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Austria. It is very important that he also served as Head of the OSCE Mission to the Republic of Slovenia in Vienna in the period until 2000 and was also accredited as Ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. It is important that he served as Head of Mission at the OSCE, because, as you know, Slovenia is preparing for the presidency within the OSCE, and it will not be difficult, of course, for a future minister or candidate to coordinate effectively in preparing for this responsible task. From 2002 until today, however, he serves as Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Germany. This is more than obvious for one of the most experienced Slovenian diplomats. Last but not least, it is also worth saying and stressing that, while he has served in many European countries, he has constantly taken care of the promotion of the cultural identity of Slovenia in the world. What is also of great importance, he has devoted special attention to the promotion of Slovenian economic interests in Europe and in the world. Given his experience, given all that he has done so far and, of course, also his abilities, I am sure that he will be able to assume the function of Slovenian Foreign Minister immediately and effectively. I am sure that this function will be performed effectively and well, so I suggest that you support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Home Committee for Foreign Policy and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. It follows from the opinion of the Committee that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. You've received the Committee's opinions. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jelk Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Candidate! Representatives of the public! The work of the Foreign Policy Committee was not free. We have dismissed the Minister, so our opinion in presenting the proposed candidate for Foreign Affairs, as we said in stock, is welcome and appropriate. In his opening presentation, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivo Weigl said that he had already worked with the foreign policy committee as State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1992, 1998 and 2002, and he also presented himself to us as an ambassador to the Republic of Slovenia in Sweden, Austria and Germany. He said that the invitation for today's meeting of the Committee, a then meeting of the Committee, came unexpectedly in the middle of his mandate as Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia in Germany, an important partner country, an EU Member State and NATO, with which we have the most developed economic relations and cooperation in various other areas. He stressed that, as a candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as proposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, he was aware of the responsibilities he was prepared to shoulder and the honour it brings to the Republic of Slovenia. He further stressed that the starting point for his work as Minister for Foreign Affairs will be if the continuity of foreign policy action, which has led Slovenia to membership in the European Union and NATO during the 13 years of existence, is confirmed and is based on the documents of the National Assembly, whose key component has been unity throughout the country's strategic objectives in the foreign policy field. He said that he intended to pay particular attention to the functioning of Slovenia in the EU and NATO and to develop as close as possible cooperation with the strategic partners in the world, specifically indicating the USA, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. However, relations with neighbouring countries remain at the centre of every effective and reasonable diplomacy. He stressed that in the coming period, in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, priority will be given to those who come from our membership in the EU. He pointed out that the European Union needs Slovenia in particular in its relations with the Western Balkans. The latter is still given special attention by the European Union as an area with the potential of new crises and exacerbations, in parallel with the start of democratic processes, as well as the Europeanisation of the region as a whole. As an essential contribution by Slovenia to the joint efforts towards the final stabilisation of the Western Balkans, the European Union expects to help in particular in the political analysis of the information collected on the basis of the contacts we have with the Heads of State, representatives of civil society and opinion leaders in the region to give initiatives and propose appropriate political projects to stabilise peace in the Balkans and to act as a link between the countries of the Western Balkans and the European Union. He felt that Slovenia could also become a reference point for all who want to contribute to peace, prosperity, strengthening human rights and multi-ethnic coexistence in the region by organising various international meetings and conferences. Despite the limited human resources in Slovenia, efforts should be made to involve more Slovenian experts in the activities of the European Union and other organisations in the Western Balkans. In doing so, we will have to rely even more on personnel that can come from either the economy, civil society and the institutes. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is necessary to establish an effective organisation of internal organisational units dealing with the Western Balkans and to connect more closely with research institutions and civil society organisations working with partner organisations of the countries in this area. Slovenia's membership in the EU and NATO, as well as its relations with neighbouring countries, puts the traditional priority of Slovenian foreign policy into a new context and also concerns the situation of Slovenian minorities, which remains a permanent task of foreign policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and part of a good neighbourhood strategy. He concluded his wish to cooperate more closely with both the National Assembly and the whole as well as all Members, and in particular with the Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as with the mother's working body, which creates and confirms our foreign policy. After the discussion, the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 13 votes in favour and none against, took the following decision: the Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the presentation of the views of the candidates for Foreign Minister Ivo Weigle was appropriate. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I recommend to you in favour and in favour of voting in favour of the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Janez Podobnik will present to us the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished candidate for Minister, Mr. Wygel. I will present very briefly the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Slovenian People's Party's Group of the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint Mr Iv Wigle as Foreign Minister will not be supported. In the parliamentary group, we objected to the Prime Minister's decision to propose a replacement a few months before the elections in such an important government sector as the foreign policy. When this happened and because this happened, we expected or expected the Prime Minister to take over the management of this facility in some other European countries for this short time, in accordance with practice. Therefore, the Group of Members of the proposal to appoint Mr Wygle will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister, distinguished candidate for Minister, colleague and fellow Members! Unlike the Slovenian People's Party, our Group will support the proposal to appoint Mr Wygle as Minister for Foreign Affairs, as it believes that the candidate will successfully serve as Foreign Minister until the end of this mandate due to his previous professional political experience. His presentation at the Foreign Policy Committee's meeting suggests that his starting point will be to work on the continuity of the current foreign policy action that our country has included in the EU and NATO over the past 13 years. Such a policy is also justified in our Parliament's documents, which, in our view, has contributed essential elements to the unity of our country's strategic objectives. We agree with the candidate's findings that, in addition to the special attention we are paying to the EU and NATO, it is necessary to develop as close as possible cooperation with strategic partners and other countries as possible such as the US, Russia, China, India and so on. We also agree with the view that relations with neighbouring countries, especially the Western Balkan countries, must also be at the heart of our foreign policy. We therefore agree with the orientation of foreign policy relations with the Balkans, as this could help our country solve problems in the face of possible new crises. And it is right that our country is helping to establish such democratic processes that will contribute to the Europeanisation of the entire region. We are thus guided by such security, economic and cultural political reasons. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe it is right that our foreign policy is also activated in this direction, that our country becomes the host of various international meetings and conferences, which, in addition to our interest, would also express the interests of the EU and our country in this region. It has been heard several times that all services do not function as they should at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will therefore be necessary to establish an effective organisation of all internal organisational units as soon as possible, focusing on more systematic and analytical work in laying the foundations for a more effective external policy. We also believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with Parliament, must establish a form of cooperation that will allow our Parliament to more effectively express its role in the creation of European rules. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Mr Wygle as Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group, as we are convinced that the candidate is the right person to perform this function. Its large professional-political references, its nature and working methods further indicate that it will be successful in its role as foreign minister and will not unnecessarily expose itself to the political public. In short, it is by its very nature a person who will act as a bridge to all groups that will or will be interested in the successful political image of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint Iv Wigel as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me begin by saying that the opposition obviously did not have any substantive comments and arguments against the election of the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Masters of Rope to propose Iv Weigle as Foreign Minister, except for the business ones presented at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting. The hearing of the candidate for minister was held in citations to say, "in stock", nothing disputed after the interpretation of the legislative and legal service. In addition, the President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, explained his decision at the meeting, but this will be judged by the State Parliament's Rules of Procedure in one way or another, as this is also his responsibility. After all, the opposition also supported the candidate two years ago as ambassador to Berlin on the Foreign Policy Committee. No substantive comments were therefore made on the work of diplomat Ivo Vajgle until a proposal for the discharge of Dr Dimitri Rupl came to the public and the name of Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia in Berlin Wygla appeared as an alternative solution. Thus, as a burdensome fact, his service in Yugoslav diplomacy appeared. More or less, however, all career diplomats in our foreign ministry had a shorter or longer career experience in the diplomacy of the SFRY. If they counted only years in Slovenian diplomacy, a Slovenian diplomat with the longest working experience today would have only 13 years of working time. I will not list a number of career diplomats who, with their rich experience, have contributed to the success of Slovenian foreign policy, because that is not my purpose either. After all, Ivo Wygl became an adviser to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia in June 1991 and a press representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then and also later, Dr. Dimitri Rupel apparently trusted him. Later he was an ambassador to Sweden, Austria and Germany, where he was very successful in his work. Not only that, diplomat Ivo Wigel was also a candidate for the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia twice, for the first time in 1997 and for the second time in 2000. We were able to read in the paper a brief and thorough assessment that the election of Prime Minister Anton Rope to the position of new foreign minister was predictable and logical. We can agree on that. In addition, the candidate for Foreign Minister Ivo Wigl, as one of the most experienced diplomats, has participated in all important Slovenian foreign policy projects in recent years, especially in the integration of Slovenia into the European Union and the NATO Union. As it is said, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the appointment of Iva Wygle as Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. First of all, I must say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the report made by the Chairman of the Committee of Mothers is incomplete, at least with regard to expressing the views of New Slovenia and the other opposition parties. It happened that Nova Slovenija was essentially obstructed because she did not agree to the Minister's replacement or because the Prime Minister did not state the reasons for the Minister's replacement. Because it was, in fact, a distinct internal party problem or a poor personal understanding between the prime minister and the foreign minister. This is certainly not the reason to replace the Foreign Minister three or two months before the elections, even during the holiday season. For this reason, if Mr Prime Minister is not well understood by the Personality Line with the Foreign Minister, now the former Minister, there could therefore be a discharge, but this foreign ministry could carry out its own business. The Prime Minister is also leading the foreign policy of the country, so there is no reason to appoint a new man. We must therefore ask ourselves, before this appointment, what new directions can we expect from the Foreign Minister. But what's going to change? From the explanation, from the analysis, from the presentation we find that nothing special. So I don't know what the reason for the change is, except for the personal misunderstanding between previous co-workers, i.e. the heads of government, the Prime Minister and the foreign ministers. If it was just a personal profile, of course, I would suggest to the Prime Minister that he then make the candidate's identity profile for the minister and find out if he might not have something complicated again. What can I expect from foreign policy, perhaps with the appointment of diplomats? These questions were raised yesterday. In this regard, an answer should be given. And what can we say about the candidates proposed by the Prime Minister? Mr President or Madam President! I think it's hard to say anything because there's an extremely lively debate in this auditorium, although we don't have a debate right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u13	I'm asking for peace! Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u14	So the candidate acted at a time before the independence on the side of the old tested structures. This is a diplomat who is in other times, for the former Yugoslavia, after which some are also staked. It comes from the so-called company of Belgrade times, which continues tradition in a different dress, some also through Forum 21, which was also visited by Prime Minister Rop through the side door. What should the minister do when he enters the ministerial office in two months? Is it going to have a different orientation with regard to NATO, according to the EU? During this period of independence he was also an active member of Markovic's party for Yugoslavia. That way, too, we can judge a person in this regard. This must certainly be taken into account for foreign policy. It is also relatively familiar with former security services in the previous system and has worked quite well. Instead of dealing with the legislation needed to harmonise with the European Union, of course, substitutions are being made due to internal party problems. Of course, these are not serious matters and we are wasting our time. The proposal submitted by the Prime Minister to the National Assembly in the New Slovenia Group will not be supported. At that time, if there had already been a discharge of the foreign minister whose proposal had not been supported, the Prime Minister would have been able to carry out foreign policy affairs at the time of the holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be presented to us by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this unusual situation, three months before the elections and before the summer, it probably doesn't matter who the foreign minister is, so it doesn't make sense to oppose the candidate. This is also true for Mr Wigel, who was proposed by the Prime Minister as the new foreign minister. Its past activities have been assessed by most assessors as good and professional. In the Party of Young Slovenia we mainly count on its expertise. In view of the situation that is likely to confirm him today, we advise him not to do so as much as possible. Here we are referring to the complication of Dr Dimitri Ruple's proposal for the resolution of all reasoned and unfounded comments, positions and accusations against each other in all probable and incredible situations within the government coalition, as we heard yesterday. A respected candidate for Foreign Minister! The party of young Slovenia will support your candidacy, we hope that you will lead a blue policy within the given framework until the duration of this government's mandate. Slovenia is becoming a country that is increasingly recognised in the international environment. Birth spasms are long past and the international public is expecting mature political reactions with even unacceptable behaviour from neighbouring countries. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we stress the dialogue of tolerance, which must not go to the loss of opportunities or the deterioration of the situation for Slovenia. As a young country, which has also formally become part of the European Union, Slovenia must participate as much as possible in international institutions and contribute constructively to the regulation of the international environment. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that Slovenia must work in all areas, in particular the European Union and the United Nations, on which modern Europe is also based. Above all, it is necessary to restore the strength and reputation that will not depend on the current economic and political views of the world's largest forces. It is also essential that negotiations with Croatia on border matters, as well as other issues at stake, continue and resolve as quickly as possible, as they stifle healthy relations. It is not only a question of the legacy or fate of the question of the Ljubljana Bank and of problems at the border, but also of economic, transport, energy and other connections. Slovenia must work to ensure that the issues resolved are not reopened if any of the parties to the decision are not at the latest. It is also important to discuss tourism projects with Croatia and to cash in building better transport links to Croatian territory. Of course, relations with the southern neighbor are not only important, but also with others. After several years of poor relations, Italy has become a good foreign partner. Slovenia must also maintain these contacts because of the Slovenian minority in Italy. It also expects support in addressing key issues within the European Union. Although Austria may not have been as close to Slovenia and Italy in recent years because of the political structure of the region, but we estimate that relations between the countries are appropriate. Slovenia is also becoming part of the international environment at the formal level. Following the recognition of the independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia and the inclusion in the United Nations of Slovenia by entering two new international institutions, the European Union and NATO, it becomes a full member of the international community at different levels of foreign policy decision-making. However, the hard work of Slovenia only started well with the entry. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the success of our young country will only be demonstrated by actual integration into these international institutions. If we do not know how to make use of this in our neighbourhood relations, all Slovenia's efforts in recent years have been in vain. Mr Weigl, we believe that in all years of diplomatic work you have gained sufficient experience to lead the foreign ministry, although we believe that something is not enough to change in these few holiday months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Roman Jakič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Prime Minister, Secretary General, candidate. The appointment of a new Foreign Minister takes place in a tense atmosphere. Of course, the opposition's attempt to prevent the appointment of a new minister shows this and weakens the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The opposition parties tried to prevent only the presentation of the new candidate for minister and thus protested, in their view, the unjustifiable presentation of the candidate for the new Foreign Minister, Mr Iv Weigle, before the National Assembly completed the procedures for the discharge of current Minister Dimitri Rupl. In doing so, they insisted, despite the clarification of the leadership of the National Assembly, that the procedure for the discharge of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the procedure for appointment in the National Assembly is carried out in accordance with the rules of procedure and the practice so far and despite the decision of the President of the National Assembly of Mr Pahor that he has granted a proposal for the presentation of the candidate to the home working body, taking into account the practice so far in which the procedure for the discharge of the Minister and the procedure for the appointment of the new Minister took place at the same time. The representatives of the opposition parties argued that the presentation was not meaningful, as it did not ensure that the state assembly of the current Minister for Foreign Affairs would be resolved. Of course, yesterday's vote has shown that their findings are unjustifiable and that their intentions have failed. The National Assembly will today, at its plenary session, when the current Minister is dismissed, decide on the appointment of a new Minister for Foreign Affairs. And in this context, let me say that I do not want to see Mr. Wigel as the hostage of Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Mr. Wigel personally pointed out that he had been questioned, while Dr. Rupel had not yet been resolved and thus, of course, demonstrated a certain limit of courage in the political space. The government and thus the ruling coalition want to show that it is solid and that the political plots involving the current foreign minister cannot be undermined. By appointing a new minister, he would also like to show that, if one of the ministers decides not to participate in this government, he has an appropriate candidate for any position in the government, who can perform the ministerial function in a responsible and professional manner. No one in this country is irreplaceable. This government will thus end this mandate in full composition and until the elections, and will also complete all remaining outstanding tasks. Mr Wigel has a long political career, and he is currently a Slovenian ambassador to Germany. Its political involvement began as the general consul of the then SFRJ in Cleveland in 1984, 1988. We know his way and we also know that he was a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or a press representative of the then Yugoslavia. But it is interesting that you challenge him if we all know that on the day of the Slovenian plebiscite of independence he resigned from the post of Press Representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the SFRJ and remained at the Ministry and worked for Slovenia, in agreement with the Slovenian government, for its independence and its future. That is why, of course, he also moved to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia because he acted as an adviser to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Of course, his "curriculum vitae" is accessible and is very rich as far as diplomatic experience is concerned. Thus, Mr Ivo Wigl did not enjoy as much soybeans as the Minister has before, which does not mean that it is not a worthy and competent expert. In our opinion or belief, it is one of many deserving and modest Slovenians who have contributed greatly to the sovereignty and respect of Slovenia as a member of the international community and member of the EU and NATO. Hence, they did not demand distinctions or immodestly owned credit. The LDS Group expects the new Minister for Foreign Affairs to focus on European affairs. Following Slovenia's entry into the EU, more substantive and human resources attention is needed for the EU sector to address a wider range of issues. It is necessary to strengthen economic cooperation, in particular cooperation with the Balkan countries, where, in the absence of other foreign direct investment, Slovenia's share can become significantly more visible. With regard to the issue of enlargement, the EU must pay particular attention to Croatia and negotiate with it as it approaches the EU from the point of view of our specific interests towards this country. Of course, we must not forget other foreign policy actors, and in this context we see the possibility that we or we should also focus on issues relating to the Security Council and, of course, the Organization of the United Nations alone. The Republic of Slovenia has achieved all the major foreign policy objectives, the EU and NATO, now is the time for a policy of small, deliberate steps. In the LDS, we are convinced that Mr Wigel is suitable for this task, and that is why we will unanimously support the Prime Minister's proposal in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, Mr. Candidate! I was hoping, I speak, of course, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, that there will not be so much politicisation in explanation as we have heard in the beginning. We do not like it, paragraphs 114 and 112, but there is a right for the mandate-holder to apply, so the Prime Minister has decided, and the fact is that we have to make constructive decisions in this National Assembly. It is also a fact that it is not right for one or the other to speak, that it is not known, to throw pollen under the feet, to prevent this or that. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the content of what the candidate for foreign minister offers is the essence of everything, not what the right hand or left says, who wants to guess and why. The fact is that the State of the Republic of Slovenia needs an external minister, it is true that the Prime Minister can also do this work, but it is true that the Prime Minister has decided, on the basis of constitutional provisions, that we will choose a new one today or not to elect a new foreign minister. And if I don't talk, I'm gonna go to the facts, to what I just said. Mr Ivo Wygl presented himself and presented his content. I will talk about this content on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and tell you what we agree with and what we disagree with. The candidate for Foreign Minister, Mr Wygl, paid the highest attention to the role and functioning of Slovenia in the European Union. This is a positive fact, since Slovenia has adopted many rights and even more duties by deciding to join the European Union. It is right for the Foreign Ministry to devote the maximum amount of time to this application. It is also true that Slovenia will help to integrate the so-called Balkan countries into the European Union, already for the sake of maintaining peace, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, is the only justifiable reason for the existence of the European Union. It is also right, therefore, on the positive side, that Mr Wigel, if appointed, should pay particular attention to the sector for the European Union, pay attention to coordination between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government service for European Affairs and the Ministry of European Affairs. The first minus, which I will give on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and, in particular, on my behalf, that, in this statement, respected by the candidate, you may not be perfect, but you have not given the greatest emphasis to the relationship with the National Assembly, Parliament. This is where I see some weakness, because I think it is primarily the role of Parliament, especially now that certain decisions are taken only and only at European level, the role of supervision and cooperation with government representatives, with ministerial representatives in the European Council, is all the more important. Mr Wigel, as a candidate, also supports the priorities of the Dutch Presidency of the European Union and, of course, has also said something about the ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty. Perhaps I will hear a response later; Mr Wigel said he expects to be ratified within some normal time frame. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion it would be right to say exactly in the field of foreign policy that it would be good and right and that we must do everything possible to ratify it within the agreed two years, not within a certain normal period. Of course, this is the question of the outcome of the referendums at the time of the adoption of the European Constitution and, of course, of the opinion of Mr Wigel, you agree with Mr Fischer that it is necessary to wait for developments and seek solutions. I think that it is not enough, and the Slovenian National Party thinks that it is not enough to wait for developments, but that it is necessary, if we are already in a large country bringing together 25 smaller and larger countries, that it is necessary to find a solution, that the Constitutional Treaty will be ratified and valid for all 25 countries as soon as possible, as it will represent an act on which we will be equal, I stress, equally, also Slovenians operate in the European Union. He would also, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on his own behalf, put on that page plus his claim, in particular plus Mr Wigel, that Slovenia must accept its own views on the membership of Slovenia in NATO. This is very positive, and I therefore hope, Mr candidate, if you are chosen, that we will continue to do so. You highlighted the national interests that Slovenia must exercise in NATO. It is also positive that the candidate drew attention to the important role of the Slovenian Presidency of the Committee on Security and Cooperation in Europe, which begins in the second year, and stressed that he would pay particular attention to this content if, of course, he was elected. In view of this, - Mr. candidate, that the Slovenian National Party is the only interest of the Slovenian people, I must say that, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion, at a high minus your attitude and enthusiasm, I will quote you, regarding Croatia: "We will do everything to keep our neighbours side by side, to transfer our knowledge and to help her to the extent she wishes." Allow me, Mr. Candidate, "why a great minus, because Slovenia has absolutely outstanding issues with Croatia, because Slovenia is just saying what it would like, and Croatia has clear positions and has established them to Slovenia and has gained 10 steps of advantage. The foreign policy which we opposed in the Slovenian National Party yesterday, however, claimed that at the time of its entry into the European Union, Slovenia would act in the same way as Italy did in Slovenia in 1994-1996 in bilateral relations that Slovenia could even become an accession or candidate for entry into the European Union. We expected Slovenia once, however, to have a stable, firm, clear attitude towards neighbouring Croatia, because in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party we do not require from Croatia absolutely anything that is not ours, absolutely nothing that is not ours. And even on the part of the Slovenian National Party, the distinguished Mr. Candidate, it would not be fair to go beyond your point of view. I hope and want you to be firm and stable in finding the requirements and rights that Slovenia goes towards its neighbouring Croatia. No one wants any conflicts, but we want to have the views and rights we have clearly defined and defined. In the Slovenian National Party, there is an agreement, Mr candidate, that we will not oppose your appointment. Personally, Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party, will tell you that because of the position and the persistence of this position towards Croatia, I will press the "quorum" button. I'll tell you this clearly and loudly, I won't object, I'll press the quorum. I wish you, Sir, if you become an external minister, that your position on the foreign policy of this State of the Republic of Slovenia will be firmly, clearly and capitally, and that you will always have absolute support in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the Foreign Minister, a respected Prime Minister in absentia, which is usually already in this National Assembly. So much disrespect for the National Assembly has not yet been shown by any proposer in this place, just as the current Prime Minister, who says his own words and leaves, never advocates a proposal or reads a report and then can think what he wants. Yesterday we voted on his proposal without his presence and without the Minister replacing him. I really don't know why he was here if the Prime Minister who proposed it wasn't. I don't know if there is any other parliament that is so little respected by its own government, as it is in Slovenia. The proposal before us today will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In our view, this is an inappropriate replacement. We have a practical continuation of a scene that began last year. For two days, the National Assembly deals with the internal problems of the largest government party. At the beginning of these events last year, we had to sit here and waste time when the government coalition called extraordinary meetings for deleted persons, now solving internal political problems. Instead of considering today a law on compensatory schemes to solve this complication of increased premiums in the health insurance company, which will hit more than 300,000 Slovenian pensioners in pocket, we are solving the internal problems of the largest government party. In our view, the proposal to replace the current Minister for Foreign Affairs was inappropriate and also inappropriate to propose his replacement. In view of the voting machine that the ruling coalition is overcoming, which, for the sake of important votes, will acquire a few more votes in the so-called smaller opposition parties, we have no doubt that this proposal by the Prime Minister will be confirmed. In the event that Mr Wigel is appointed to the post of Foreign Minister, we will support him as the opposition in those steps he will take for the good of Slovenia. If we assess that he does not take such steps, we will oppose it, as we have done so far. So much for principles and attitudes. We expect him to do his best in this direction. We point out, however, that yesterday's experience, particularly the explanation of the Prime Minister's replacement of the current foreign minister, shows that it is simply not enough or that it does not matter whether the Minister has done well or not. So, Mr Wigel, what you have listed as priorities on the Foreign Policy Committee, you will be able to achieve 100%, you will be able to receive 100% support from this National Assembly, you will be able to be on the polytbarometer paid by the Government, assessed as the best ministry, but can still be replaced in September. There's no guarantee that you won't be replaced, even though you'll be doing well. The lesson of yesterday's story is that it doesn't matter whether the minister works well, it's important that he doesn't resent the Prime Minister, or maybe Gregor Golobic, or Slavko Gabru, or, God forbid, what influences the lady's court around the Prime Minister. This is crucial for the Minister's assessment, because yesterday your predecessor was not replaced by your colleagues from government parties because he would have done bad or to the detriment of Slovenia, but because he resented the Prime Minister. Although no minister swears to the Prime Minister, he swears to respect the Constitution and to work for the welfare of Slovenia. So the lesson of yesterday's story is bad. The Prime Minister defends the worst ministers on his team and cancels the best. Not only in the opinion of the opposition, but in the opinion of the public and in the opinion of the research paid by the same government, but also in the opinion of the government Members, who said that the minister did not act badly, but argued with the Prime Minister. So science is clear. You can do bad things, not to the detriment of the state, but to the Prime Minister. And that wasn't in your orientation on the Foreign Policy Committee, so there's a big question if there's no candidate for your city anywhere to be stocked that they're going to pull in two months and they're going to replace you. The formula is perfectly simple. That way, I wouldn't be so happy about finding out how good it is to have candidates in stock. You're in a society of government paradigms that has candidates for supply. If someone else who does good and for the benefit of the state resents some at the top of the government, they can easily change it. Members who are supposed to vote on their conscience from government parties will, of course, confirm this 100%. It is not said that what Mr Kacin said about your predecessor yesterday will not say about you in two months, or any other government coalition that is used to climbing over corpses, political corpses and will deal with you. So no guarantees, according to the criteria that were set yesterday, you do not have that good work will actually be what your colleagues will assess you on the basis of. The fact is that the Prime Minister has the right to propose a replacement of a minister, the National Assembly decides on this, the Prime Minister has the right to propose a new Minister and the National Assembly decides on this, but there are controversial explanations and there are challenges to the criteria and the moral teachings of this story that we experienced yesterday. I think you, Mr. Wigel, should think about it. Just as you treated your predecessor, your subordinates in the foreign ministry and diplomacy will act because you gave them such an example. You will be reported to the Prime Minister, according to your own words, you will be prosecuted, like some or some of your predecessors. Such an operation, such a divisive operation, is what consumes every system, but a very sensitive system of foreign policy and diplomacy. The mandate will be short, but as the Prime Minister said yesterday, if it was necessary to replace the minister he resented two weeks before the elections, then he would do so. I think in those directions you presented before your mother's working body, you forgot to mention the key thing that turned out to be the most important thing about the existence of someone in the ministerial office yesterday. You didn't write that you wouldn't mind the Prime Minister with any private activity, any political activity. Everything else is less important than what was written here. The fact is, you are walking into oversized shoes in a way that is morally controversial, which sets a poor example for the whole country. Someone who works well will be relieved, but someone who will be humiliated, who will not have his views, who will not work for the good of the country, but will not resent the Prime Minister, but will progress. The formula is not good, it reminds us of the conduct of the Roman Empire in the final stages of decay. I think the Slovenian authorities are very close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. I now invite Members and Members to the floor. Mr. Yuri, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President. I am one of those, Mr Wigel, who argue that, in particular as a new member of the European Union, Slovenia can and must play a key, central role, the role of the most qualified candidate or member of the European Union in regulating and stabilising the situation in the former Yugoslavia or in the Western Balkans. And since I see your views going this way, as a candidate, you deserve my support, as I have already told you at the Foreign Policy Committee. In addition, because at the presentation yourself in the Committee on Foreign Policy, you have said, of course, very diplomatically, that you are aware of the confusion of the American Allied aggression in Iraq and it is clear that in building a stable environment, as you have said, in postwar Iraq, both the central role of the United Nations and the closer cooperation with those countries, in particular the European Union, which have been retained until intervention in Iraq. In particular, I am reassured by the fact that you do not intend to take on a greater role by Slovenia than members of the European Union and NATO than what it is doing today, by providing assistance in training the security forces or security services of Iraq. This seems to me to be a very important emphasis on the territory of third countries. You will not advocate sending our soldiers or police officers to Iraq itself, and you have agreed that Slovenia must play a somehow greater role in offering economic, organisational, humanitarian assistance to Iraq, under the auspices of the United Nations and in agreement with the Iraqi authorities. These are the reasons why I would be happy to support your candidacy today. Another word, two about Croatia. I agree with your assessment that it is necessary to cultivate good neighbourly relations, to support Croatia's efforts to enter the EU under the same conditions as we and all other members have entered. You know how I feel about setting up a border story at sea. You know that I do not see a way out of this for almost a second year now, I stress, from this complication without international arbitration and that I note that if the border is not established and internationally verified by the time we enter the Schengen area, we have set ourselves the 2006 anniversary and are working in this direction to achieve all the conditions for accession to the Schengen Agreement, we are also risking a further shift in this entry. If the border is not set at sea, there can be reasons not to enter Schengen and this will be a great regret for all of us. That is why I expect from you, Mr candidate, that you will take this risk more seriously than your predecessor, and I expect this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. May I have Dr. Bernick's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Candidate, colleagues and colleagues! When I read the report on the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, where Mr Wigel presented himself as a candidate for foreign minister, I noticed that the chairman of this committee is saying that the candidate is ready to deal with this ministry with all responsibility and honour. I'll talk about these two things later. At the moment, I would go back to that river that I mentioned yesterday, that in the foreign ministry, "Rop happened", and today I see, "this robbery has already been fixed" and Mr candidate is here. I met Mr. Candidate years ago when he was Ambassador to Vienna, and I must say we had a pretty good conversation. However, of course, I have heard a number of other things about the candidate, even at the time I was Slovenian, 50 years old. This qualification "Slovakia deleted" was a revolution for all of us who were outside the Slovenian state and space. I have reviewed quite a lot of material on this appointment, etc., and this is about the major problems of the Slovenian country, which need to be pursued, etc. And also many of these friendships that we need to maintain, and our concern for some neighbours, such as Macedonia, Croatia and so on. This is actually nice, but the report does not mention once, nor in the questions of Members, nor in the speeches today mention anything that could be said to be a big hole in the report and in the thinking. This is actually the whole "Ozone Hole"; for this ministry also has under it the office for Slovenians in place and around the world, as if this office were part of this ministry, otherwise it is more of a "shoal" part - if I may say so - but who would have thought that when we were talking about responsibility and honour, that this whole thing would come into focus and there would be something to be said about it. However, even members of the coalition who have a few people on the committee on the committee did not come to think of this matter. You know, I've been under the impression that our ambassadors have been here for a long time, not to think of you, but in general, some human automatics that someone in the ministry, some political commissioner or anyone programmed into the same political uniforms and thought patterns. In addition, the Ministry has its own farm for young diplomats by going in the direction of this programming, for its own staff, through a fund that is not well known and has rich resources, that is to say, from the budget, and this is the institution 'ad culture'. Maybe Mr. Secretary, you can take a look at this. Mr candidate, I hope that after taking responsibility, you will also look at the current human resources policy, but I fear that there is no good in our government against the Prime Minister, and I want you to do what you think is necessary for the Slovenian state, not for the Prime Minister. There's something else standing in the way of an obstacle. You must remember, you were the general consul in Cleveland of the old communist, Yugoslav regime in 1984 or 1988. I don't know if you know if anyone has ever told you this, but that was generally true, and that's what all of us immigrants, or so-called, wiped out all over America, knew that you were the most bitten, the most Yugoslav and hostile to Slovenian immigrants; those who weren't the right color." I'm telling you this because I don't have any particular confidence that you're going to have to change some things in your view and in your operation. So, Slovenians around the world and in their place are part of your department, and something has to be done with this ministry. I have to say, the previous minister didn't do it, whether he couldn't do it or anything. We started with a minister without a department for Slovenians around the world and with some budget, and then he goes down and down, both in cash and in the staff of this office. It was a waiting room for people who wanted to come to other places, and they were once absolutely nothing. Finally, let me mention this if you still have any good connections with Belgrade. Our commission visited Belgrade a few months ago and we also visited several ministries there. I can tell everyone that Serbia and Montenegro have two ministries for Serbs around the world. One is on a federal level, the other is on a Serbian level - I don't know what they call it. Two ministries, of course there are more, we could have at least one. And that's what I'm up for. Mr candidate, I personally wish you much success and satisfaction, but I hope you will have so much responsibility and honor that you will remember the Slovenians around the world and do something for them; this is said to become a living part of our national body. Well, good luck and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. May I have Mrs. Shirca's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr candidate and others, to state some of my observations, which may be some kind of identity card of your work so far, but they seem very important to me in your intended mission. What - of course, more indirectly - I have seen in your work so far, not only as a secretary of state, especially in diplomacy, and what I respect is great systemicity. I see that, in your diplomatic work so far, your decisions have been very systematic, they have been peaceful, quiet and very teamed, which I think is very important in terms of diplomatic engagement and thinking. Perhaps this approach is fostered by some inherent talent that is not irrelevant in diplomacy, but certainly, if this talent is eloquent with a specific analytical approach, then the diplomat's work is very important. Let me explain what I mean by this analytical approach. It's definitely about the study. Studying, but as I know, your approach to work in the sense of this analytical work has been expressed in such a way that you have not faced the problem in a perfect way, but have always analysed the problem from all possible perspectives. It is said that it was not just a matter of listening to a fact, but a fact that really appears in all its aspects. This means that you requested original materials, that you analyzed not the immediate but the original texts, and only on this basis could you - and of course also the advisers - get to the point of view. Such an approach - not only in diplomacy, but especially in diplomacy - is a property of good diplomats. I am aware that, on average, you have engaged in the signing of the cultural agreement between Austria and Slovenia, that we all know what kind of cancer the wound was or how long this agreement has been preparing, how long it took, is undoubtedly an important achievement, because it is in some way a burden on a set of open issues in this area, especially on minority issues between Austria and Slovenia. In short, as I know, your work was not only official, it is said, in a way that a diplomat can, and much more so, attends only celebrations and these final protocol presentations, but you have talked to people. That's my information, and that's my information, and that's my experience. And by talking to each other, you've been dealing with their real problems. In this sense, I know that both Austrian interlocutors and representatives of our minorities appreciated you, regardless of the political options they came from. Let me stress another layer, another approach which, in my view, is very important for the functioning of the Foreign Minister, but of course it is already established in your past; it is said in diplomacy that I am not still talking about the previous press work. After all, in the 1980s, as I know, foreign journalists elected you twice as president of the foreign press association, you had extremely good personal contacts, with the contact of foreign journalists with, I will say, the Embassy and recognition of Slovenia abroad. Well, what I wanted to stress in particular, and what I like about it, is your role so far in presenting Slovenia in the cultural field. You have put in such a way in Sweden that I do not mention Vienna or Berlin, Slovenia in the light of the public through that option, through cultural participation or through its presentation, today we hear all too many threatened, cultural identities. But not in the way of organizing or stimulating, I apologize for some protocol festive events, but in the way of combining so-called cultural diplomacy with economic diplomacy. We know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have the power, and in general the embassies, with never the great, but at least the relative sums that would stimulate this presentation, therefore it is so important that the economy is included in such projects. And this was one of your greatest advantages when, wherever you came from, you tried to act on behalf of the country of Slovenia, of course, as its ambassador in its recognition. When you were in Sweden, there was little to know about Slovenia - even in those days - or less talk about our country, especially the collapse of its potentials, and of course you presented it very successfully yourself. Perhaps it is possible to look for certain reasons in your knowledge of music, which is why you do not boast as perhaps someone else who knows an instrument, and you know it, and somehow you do not carry it with you. To conclude: what is important in diplomacy? It is important that a diplomat - and of course I am talking about your past experiences because you will be the basis for acting within the Ministry - that as a diplomat you can listen, not only to the environment in which you, but to know your own, in the past, to propose solutions to the superior. And as I am aware, you have done this, which means that this has been a major burden on the work of the ministries, because the solutions have already been on the table, but at the same time you have stimulated, such contacts that have always taken place in the way of previous talks when it comes to international diplomatic cooperation. However, I think your work will be balanced with international issues, with particular emphasis on, I will say, the embassy of our country abroad. In particular, I think that your presence may balance those relations within certain European countries that have been potentially somewhat flawed or superficially carried out recently. As I know, this will be your first working experience when you meet some ministers of the European countries with whom we may not be able to reach enough. That's why today, I hope, I wish you a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Given that, at the conclusion of the debate, Mr President will have plenty of time to discuss and answer, allow me to ask a few questions, which I am interested in, how you will respond in similar situations. Indeed, in these three months, as far as the ministries are concerned, you will certainly not make major revolutionary changes in foreign policy. But you will certainly meet with many foreign ministers of other countries, and they will probably ask you where Mr Rupel is, why he was replaced. Surely such questions will fall. Since there was no statement here, not at the hearing, not at the Prime Minister's written explanation, no crime, no ground for dismissal, I wonder-- what will you answer? Or: he resented the Prime Minister. Yeah, what did he say, with what? Yeah, he went to some tribune called by civil society, and he said some of his stuff there. Are you going to say: he was talking to the opposition too much, too sympathetic to them? Well, I'm sure they'll ask these questions and I'm wondering what you're going to answer these questions. Another thing, of course, is another area of questions. I wouldn't go down, and I don't have anything to remember personally, or any signs of birth, given your diplomatic work in the former regime in the former SFRY. Also regarding your activity 20 years ago in Cleveland, where you were probably also sent with some instructions and certain tasks of the previous regime, especially with regard to our political immigrants, Slovenian. I wouldn't let you do these tasks consistently and enthusiastically. I allow the possibility, I sincerely allow the possibility of a person changing over the years, that his world view and his life position are in a positive sense. As far as the past is concerned, I have no problem with your work, at least not for now. But I have a question, very concretely, about your current position, about current relations with the political situation in Slovenia as well. If, for example, not civil society, the opposition, had convened a public tribunal in Cankarjev dom on this foreign policy of Slovenia, what Slovenia means now in Europe and in the world, its place in the world, how to define and take on individual issues in the world. Would you have come to this rostrum if you had been invited? Next question. Will you be willing to talk to the opposition as well, as the opposition, about individual issues? I'm afraid if that's the case, then you're not writing well, Mr. Candidate! And you'll probably follow some path that was also destined for Mr. Ruple. You knew why Mr Rupel was relieved, and you are probably also aware of all the sophisticated reasons behind it. You, when you accepted the candidacy, in some way agreed to this way of working in this government, which is, of course, different than it was four years ago when this government took place. You also probably know that this political mold of action in this government is narrowing down, you've agreed to have bad contacts with the opposition, I'd say, the attitude towards the opposition, if what it takes, what this opposition has to do, what this opposition has to do, what this opposition has to do is just bother us. Surely you will have to correct the mistakes or you will not have to make the mistakes made by Rupel, namely, you will have to work towards the privatisation of foreign policy, the party's privatisation of foreign policy. Not to seek a broad consensus on foreign policy, because somehow in Europe it is the custom that foreign policy is one of those that must not be over-painted and subject to party changes in the country, but must be governed by a consensus of some kind, some higher level of political culture in the formulation of foreign policy. Of course, the question of the Tribunal is symbolic, but it covers up the whole range of these small issues that will be raised. Neither do I, nor do I, support, although, as I said, against you as a candidate, I have nothing personal, I have nothing to say about your past, things from the past are forgotten or being built on new positions and these views, the current positions, are important. I would, of course, ask if you would answer these questions in closing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Christmas to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Candidate, colleagues and colleagues. If we continued yesterday's debate, we could just say that the President could have decided to lead the Foreign Ministry for three months on his own. But as he suggested, it is, and today we are talking about the candidate. Of course, like others, I would have asked only two questions to our candidate. What do you think of our diplomatic representations in the European Union? For in the European Union, now twenty-five, we will have much in common. And: Will our representations be as big as they have been before? Because, in the law on external matters, diplomacy, international treaties and the ministry, article 14 states: "The decision on the opening and closing of the House takes into account the intensity of bilateral relations, economic cooperation, the presence of the Slovenian national minority and Slovenian expatriates and residents, or other reasons." I think we have a lot of things arranged in the EU, at least here in this National Assembly we have adopted a lot of laws that regulate these matters. I have another issue around the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of businesses. We'll have another treatment. In fact, at the last meeting of the National Assembly, the Slovenian People's Party argued that the Ministry of Economy does not require a public agency for foreign direct investment to do so at diplomatic missions in foreign countries, i.e. in countries where they are. Because Article 15 of the previously cited law states: "In the representations, employees are also employed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the basis of a written agreement with the heads of state and other authorities and organisations for a certain period of time for carrying out tasks in the economic, defence, cultural, scientific information and other fields." Economic area - why have employees already at the diplomatic office and have a special agency with the Ministry of Economy? Two months ago, we said it was wrong. There have also been a lot of concerns on the Committee on the Economy, and sections 9, 11 and 14 of this cited law talk about this. I'd like to hear your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Ivo Wigel, Commissioner for Foreign Affairs. Our Group has already expressed its support in its position for your appointment, because we know you as a good diplomat, a capable man who knows the situation in the world and especially in Europe, and in this area where Slovenia is particularly engaged in its environment, and that you will be able to do this with dignity, quality, even if the mandate is shorter, until the next elections. For one day too, it is necessary to have a man in his place to carry out his duties. That is how we have a constitution, and we have laws such that the Prime Minister can also take this power to himself, as well as the possibility of a constitution. However, the Prime Minister had, as has been judged here, "a man in stock" to replace the former Foreign Minister. I see nothing wrong with this myself, but I see well that we also have other capable people who are in a position to take over any of the ministerial positions. That seems positive to me. For the opposition already has a 'governance in stock', although it does not hope to show it, because perhaps then there would be a far worse mood before the elections. Some of them even train in current government circles, current ministries to benefit from the experience that the current government has. I mean, no one is as irreplaceable as anyone has ever felt and acted in the past, Dr. Dimitri Rupel. Often. Even at our meetings, on various foreign policy committees and the like, he sometimes seemed so nervous about some issues, as if, leave me alone, here I am sovereign. No, no, no. Our national assembly, our national assembly bodies or committees and commissions have their powers and have the right to ask the questions they are asking and must receive the answer they are expected to receive. Many times it has been stressed that Slovenia has achieved these great objectives in foreign policy, the European Union and NATO and other associations. Now, of course, it is necessary to live in these and from these associations to draw the best possible position for further life. Above all, I think important economic relations both with the European Union, the countries that are members here, with the rest of the world, as you mentioned these great countries, such as the Russian Federation, China and others, not least Mediterranean, Africa, where markets will open. The Middle East. This place of the former Yugoslavia, where in some areas even in these new countries called Slovenians, especially come to us and invest more capital in our development, but also for our Slovenian benefit. Not long ago I was in Macedonia, they told us: in the immediate vicinity of Skopje, more than half a million cities, and airports and highways, we offer you thermals and no one wants them. I want a sunny Hvar, for example. Isn't there really a perspective there, and Ohrid, where they offer big things? And this will be our future opportunity for expansion, especially these tourist industries of Slovenia. It will be necessary to listen to this, because our diplomatic service, where I was speaking, offers and collects information, gives information to the Slovenian economy, gives the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, but here, it seems, not enough hearing for this good cooperation. It seems to me that in this area we should have more in our common policy, that diplomacy that knows these things outside is researching, informing and informing our domestic actors, the economy, the chambers, the government in order to take advantage of these opportunities. We will live only on what we will create at home and what we can benefit from in this international space. I am sure that you will do your part faithfully, honestly, qualitatively, as a man who has already proved it in the past, and of course I wish you much success in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Candidate. Slovenia is a young country and, of course, is also trying to create what is most difficult to create, a long-term, strong external service, and this is part of our reality. Because this cannot be created overnight, we must also count on some long-term human resources policy, including the strong functioning of a stable diplomatic career. About these things - you know well that so - you certainly have your views on how this should be done even better in the long run than it has been in this period. However, I will not ask you about this matter, because in the next two or three months, when you have this responsibility, if this national assembly confirms you today, you will not be able to do much in this area. But you can make one very important move, which you certainly understand as an experienced diplomat. You know very well, Mr candidate, because you have also been, on behalf of our country, an ambassador in normal parliamentary democracy, that our doubts about the replacement of an foreign minister in such situations as has just happened in Slovenia, that this is not dangerous, that this is not normal, but above all it is not normal for the Prime Minister to express himself in a clear way, whether he has decided on this step on the basis of internal political problems in his own party and structure, but he left an open question here whether there is a disagreement or disagreement with the former foreign minister on the basis of foreign policy. I think this is the step we're expecting from you - and that's the question that I'm going to ask you right now. Do you have this opportunity to explain: In your discussions with the Prime Minister, could you personally see any change in Slovenian foreign policy? Where are the news that the Prime Minister is expecting from you? This is not just a question of this national assembly or this parliamentary group, the opposition in the National Assembly, but the question of the whole public looking at Slovenia in these days with some surprise, precisely because of what I have already mentioned and you understand well that this is an unusual thing I will not ask you to comment on if this is normal, unusual, because I know that you know this and I do not want to cause any discouragement between you and Mr President of the Government, because we know what the consequences may be. But please, Mr. Minister, explain here: "Are you aware of any action or action of the former foreign minister who was a mistake in the eyes of the President and who has been presented to you as the key matter that you will have to correct in these two or three months? I repeat, this is not only a matter of this national assembly, it is a question of the normal world that is watching this our Slovenia and wants to know whether they are dealing with some miscalculation, with some change in the direction of Slovenian foreign policy, or whether it is just as it has sounded so far, based on all the interventions of the Prime Minister yesterday and, of course, today. Because today he did not wonder the need to explain here what he asked you to do, what your actions will be different and what the foreign policy of the country we all love, certainly you too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable candidate for minister, colleagues and colleagues. Something these three at least appeared today in this debate, even though the debate has something nostalgic and is running in the direction of what was yesterday like, what is today and what will be tomorrow. But still. One thing is, the president is in charge of foreign policy. So why do we need this moment of foreign minister, because the Prime Minister is also in charge of economic policy on the road, etc. And through this thesis we could narrow the government down to some president - which of course is not right, it is not good and with this thesis makes no sense, in my opinion, to be overly controversial, is too simple. Thesis number two: It is not good to resent the Prime Minister. Well, the candidate for minister is now obedient and therefore poor. Of course, this is where things change. Correction is not necessarily obedience, there is no equation and, of course, the Minister, including Mr Wigel, is expected in government relations to be correct, not obedient. No way, it's the trick of this thesis, it's not a narrow space for the Foreign Minister and for the Foreign Ministry, not at all. By getting a new foreign minister, the space is not narrowed down, the space is exactly the same, and Mr Wigel will do well in my judgment and fill this space that we have to fill. Thesis Three: He was a diplomat of a past period, so he is in other times. None of us were born in 1991, but for all I know, we're all a little older and we've done something before. Of course, among those who have done something before is Ivo Wygel, who has done something very successfully before and very successfully in the area for which we want to have a good and successful foreign minister in advance. That is why this can be a reference and not a weakness: Not a diplomat for some other time, but a successful capable diplomat. Diplomacy is a profession and there's someone good or not good. And estimates are that Mr Ivo Wigel was a good diplomat. Only an area I may know a little closer - Austria, where the ambassador was. At the time of its successful engagement, many issues are depoliticized, or mainly with its help - for example, very important issues of nuclear issues, German-speaking ethnic group, strong advocacy of minorities, the enforcement of Slovenia as an equal partner and could still be listed. These are important things and these are references to someone who does something. I am sure that Mr Ivo Wigl will be very successful in the work of the Foreign Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Candidate for Foreign Minister! I will concentrate a little bit on the part that I have covered in this mandate as President of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world. From the magnetogram I have when you presented yourself on the Foreign Policy Committee, you have devoted very little time to this area, but I think it is an essential sentence you said: "The essential document defining Slovenia's relations with Slovenians around the world is and remains a resolution on Slovenia's relations with Slovenians around the world that was adopted in the National Assembly of January 2002." I completely agree with you. Of course, the basis for working with Slovenians in substitution is also the 1996 resolution and, like the 1996 resolution, the 2002 resolution has not been implemented. The possibility of realisation is, of course, in the law. The law was prepared very well, and the foreign ministry was involved. Then he came to the office, unfortunately in this mandate, the secretaries changed just like that, through the current tape, but despite changing, we managed to maintain continued good cooperation - not only formal but really substantive. The last time the office doesn't have a secretary of state anymore, but it has a director or director, and this cooperation is actually, I'm not gonna say, dead, but it's driven the bike in the opposite direction. And not just with the commission, but with the Slovenians in place and around the world. In order to be very specific, these days I have received a newspaper from the Slovenians in Canada and, among other things, they write like this in their newspaper. A very insulted and bitter reader of the newspaper advises us to send her the following - talks about the director of Mrs Jadranka Šturm's office. "Dear stepmother Jadranka, with your published views on Slovenians in diasphora, it would be best to rename the name of your government office to the office of alienation of Slovenians in substitution and in the world." In short, a serious accusation, a very serious accusation. Mr. Candidate! If you are elected Minister today, then of course I believe that the obligations and arrangements that have run with the Minister before will also be fulfilled personally as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs. On Thursday we have an All-Slovenian meeting and it is expected that at 10 a.m. it will address Slovenians from place of residence and around the world Minister for Foreign Affairs of Slovenia. I hope that you will also identify yourself until today, even though two months ago they announced that within one month they would introduce a new law - the Ministry, the government - for the Slovenes in place and around the world, and none of this is happening. I hope that on Monday, if you will answer the question to my former fellow minister, whom I have put here, you will be excused to be absent abroad, where Mrs Sturmova, the director of the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, made it clear to the Parliamentary Commission that the choice of those who will be doing the magazine for Slovenians around the world was different from the proposal of the expert commission. But there would be no dispute if it did not, under the tendering conditions, spell out what the conditions are for them to choose an editorial for the magazine Slovenians around the world. In short, she violated the 602nd point of her own invitation to tender. And until today, after two months we did not get into Parliament, even though we requested at the last session of the Commission, we also called on the government, because through the office at the go, the director will not give us, says that these are confidential documents - okay, but Members and Members of this National Assembly and also of the previous ones, we know how to deal with documents of a confidential nature. So we'll get that, too, if you're elected minister. I hope that you will respond and respond in writing to the letter addressed to the Minister concerning Ambassador Stabeeva of Canada and her failure. However, I certainly expect that if you are elected as Minister, you will encourage the Embassy in Budapest. In view of the visit that our Commission has made with regard to the implementation of the international agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary, because Hungary does not even comply with the letter contained in this agreement and, of course, Slovenia does not fulfil even more than that. Then, at the Ministry of Minority in Hungary, with their Secretary of State in the presence of our Ambassador, it was agreed that on 25 June we would have a return visit to Monoster and take a look at one of the schools on the Hungarian side, on the Monastery side, and one on our side. Then it will be determined when someone and what no one does. Last but not least, there is no radio or newspaper or radio for one hour a day — compared to what the Hungarian minority has on our side. With this, of course, I do not want to say that there is anything too much: the Slovenian minority in Hungary has nothing, that is the problem. I hope that you will clearly represent the views of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, our Commission, that the Republic of Austria must truly respect the decisions taken by its own Constitutional Court regarding the topography and use of language. And, of course, it is time that Italy began to respect the law on the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy. For the end of our term and, of course, yours, because with the end and the elections will end all the terms of office, but before the end we will visit the Republic of Croatia, this is the conclusion of our commission, and you will be asked for the starting points regarding Croatia, when, how and in what way will it return to its constitution, which it itself has announced, the Slovenian minority, which it has erased for some reason. These reasons, of course, are unclear or never presented to us. I think it is appropriate for the Croats to say that these things must be acknowledged, so if they have made a mistake that is made in politics, then, of course, they should be corrected. So I hope that there is something else we can do together in this area. Above all, I would be happy if you were elected to the Minister in order to continue in this mandate, that is to say, towards the end - not to allow it to be adopted - to go into law procedure. I do not believe, unfortunately I do not believe what we have actually been doing for three and a half years, that really 99.9% have taken decisions unanimously where we have ruled out daily and client policies, so that we can do as much as possible for the Slovenes in place and around the world, and that was also the product of this 2002 resolution. Of course, the upgrade was in law, because also in the 1996 resolution, the government's attitude towards the Slovenians around the world is written down that it will be through the Ministry. Not even through the secretary anymore, but it went to some official level. Unfortunately, in the last three months, in fact, the results have become devastating, and it has also all been reduced to who and how much money will be paid from the budget, but when we ask for specific programmes, they send an important meeting of the Commission of Unscrupulous People from the Ministry, and the lady attends it- it was said - an important political meeting of the party, which, of course, can't be an excuse - it's a job first and then there are other things. I hope that you will find time for such important questions, because we both know that there are a lot of people displaced, that huge Slovenians and Slovenians live around the world, that they have contributed greatly to the fact that we have a country of our own for 13 years, that we have succeeded in all of these integrations and, of course, now the next phase, which we have also talked about a lot during the visits of Slovenes and Slovenes around the world, with economists. In this area, too, a number of chapters can be opened. But not by coming from Canada and after a year they have to do the driving test again, which is not understandable, but only because of this, Mr candidate, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not write in his order that they do not need to do so from the country of Canada. But we do know what the conditions are, or those who are involved in this professional work. Getting a driver's license, for example, is just a small segment that I mentioned. This, of course, has been brought to our attention by our Commission, and the Minister of the Interior has in particular pointed out this. I'd be happy to have some answers from you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Respectable candidate, Mr. Ivo Weighle! Dear Members and Members! The President, I am personally disturbed by the chatter of my fellow Members and cannot concentrate on my debate. Please calm them down. My position is similar and my decision will be as announced by the group leader, Mr Janez Podobnik. To the candidate for foreign minister - there will be no doubt today, after all that happened yesterday, also Mr Wigel would have received support - it would be difficult to see something like that he did not believe in independence in those days when he was a professional diplomat in the former country. To persuade his friends in his circles to vote against plebiscite and independence But I am sure that Mr Ivo Weigl believes in this Slovenian country today and that he is also as ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany loyal to our new country, the independent of Slovenia and that he also represents the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, with such a human resources policy, which is present today by the Prime Minister and by the summit of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I have several questions that are very interesting especially during the last period of this event in the internal political situation of the Republic of Slovenia. I have also read thoroughly the opinion on presenting the proposed candidate for Foreign Affairs, Mr Wigel, that the invitation for today's assembly came unexpectedly in the middle of your mandate as Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Namčia, an important partner Member State of the EU and NATO, with which we have the most developed economic relations and cooperation in various other areas. It seems abnormal, indeed, that you have made an important role as ambassador in the transition of the Republic of Slovenia to international integration, such as the EU and NATO, as stated in the opinion, to decide and accept the invitation of the Prime Minister to return to the Republic of Slovenia and to take over the mandate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs two months or three months before the end of your term of office or before the national elections. A professional diplomat is doing his job professionally and would expect you to complete this mandate in the Federal Republic of Germany. Your statements were also that the Federal Republic of Germany is a very important country, our very important partner. I am afraid that it is again one of the staff of the LDS ruling parties, such as the recruitment of the Minister of Justice, where it was necessary to release the Attorney-General's Office in such a way as to extend the post to another prosecutor for one term. In fact, we have also received a hint from individual Members that the great appetites for this job are - to be Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany, that Mr Wigel must be called off in such a way that you offer him the job of foreign minister for a period of three months, and that you are proposing someone else who wants to come to this place. We have been such a witness in the recruitment of the Minister of Justice, with all due respect to the Minister. Even before my discussion, Mr. from the very top of the LDS has also challenged me a little bit when he told me that I will probably be satisfied because I come from Maribor alone, and since you are also born at Maribor, it is meant that foreign policy should be guided in this way, that this is the policy of the whole country, but it is true that I am often an advocate that in this country certain things need to be decentralised, evenly, regionally also distributed these functions, and certainly this fact and these clues that have come to me that it would also be necessary for the ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to relax you in such a way that respected Mr. Wiegel will call you back for a period of three months and you will undoubtedly be elected today. It surprises me, however, that he recently finished his term as former Foreign Minister and also as ambassador to the United States of America, who also comes from Maribor, Dr. Krkuk, that Dr. Krkuk, who currently does not have such a place for this period of three months, has not invited you to this function and has left you to perform this function until the end of your term of office. This is confirmed by these clues that came to me, giving me this hint that it is actually a human resources solution within the ruling party. It is likely that someone with my debate will not be satisfied, but we have witnessed, as we have seen yesterday's debate, that in recent times there have been media attacks in Slovenian politics, some structures against some prominent Slovenian policies, and there is no doubt against Mr Rupl. The fact is, I well know some media link or structure and also those individuals who are not at the moment in this Chamber who are capable of carrying out such structures and also to do to the detriment of an individual, whether guilty or not. If I just think back to the Maribor Rector, Mr Toplak, and I wanted myself to see these media structures and also political structures against him so that the new rector who comes to his place will have a little more peaceful work and fewer problems with the media and attacks, these stories are repeated and these media lynchings are going on. Almost no one will convince me that it is not individuals who have such or different or political interests, that these media lynchlets or structures are also behind them, and undoubtedly in the last few weeks your predecessor, who will also become our fellow Member, Mr Rupl, has had some constructions. Such structures, Mr candidate, are a major damage to our external inspection and to the international activity of the foreign minister and all Slovenian diplomacy. I am sure that you will receive support here today, on my part, if your activity is to the benefit of our country in the international field, you will have my support as well as the support of the Group of Members. Today, at a given time, as the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Janez Podobnik, has said the reasons why we cannot support you, this will be our position. However, allow me to conclude my debate with some questions that I would like you to answer in your last performance. We recently appointed several ministers in the National Assembly who, according to the statement of the LDS Summit itself and some other political officials, were apolitical. Today, we can witness that "voluntary" under the terms, everyone except the Minister of Agriculture has entered the LDS if my information does not mislead me. I wonder if you are also a member of the LDS, whether you had to join the LDS as well as all the predecessors, except the Minister of Agriculture. Kolga Jakič, this is the question that is in place, and I do not think anyone today should be ashamed of whether he is a member of LDS or a member of the Slovenian People's Party or in Novi Slovenija. After all, being Minister for Foreign Affairs is a political function and being Minister of any department is a political function and corresponds politically to the Prime Minister. My question is correct and to Mr. Wigel's place. The last question, Mr Wigel, is what was it that you decided to end up halfway as ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany and that you decided to accept this challenge to become Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of three months. I will be very grateful for your thorough answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you, colleague Kangler. Aloys Sok gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Candidate for Minister, Fellow Member and Members! Today, there is less electricity in Parliament than there was yesterday. The debates are very different, the opposition's candidate mainly asks questions, wants to get his answers, and of course the position does not offend him, as we saw yesterday's event. And this is actually for the start of your term, Mr. Ivo Weighle, good. Yet, there remains an unresolved question of yesterday’s resolution in the air. Mr Rupl was informed that he was relieved of the fact that I had once again looked at the entire magnetogram so quickly that he had periodically criticized the government and the Prime Minister. Of course, we all know that he was definitely suspended at the final stage because of another act, due to his participation in the public tribunal. Here, Mr euro MEP said yesterday that the foreign minister, who is the second most important position in the government, immediately behind the Prime Minister, must support all government decisions, whether he agrees with them or not. I must say, Mr Rupl has not been made clear that he does not implement the conclusions of the government. I am very, very respected candidate, wondering whether you will really do what was advised by the largest party yesterday to support all the decisions of the government, whether you agree with them, or whether, as others, you will be the most responsible in the government at times, as long as you do not have enough left, you simply say that you may not agree with any action of the Prime Minister. Constructive criticism is, of course, always in place, but not blindly carrying out everything that the Prime Minister imagines or fulfils his wishes. Mr. Rupl was here yesterday, he was wondering about morality, he was told he was a "dragon" in the government. The Vice-President of Parliament has even said that she agrees with the newspaper article that Mr Rupel is a great man with little principles. I myself have heard at your presentation that you have made a very positive statement to Mr Rupl, and that is also a good thing and I am very positive about your position towards the Foreign Minister. Something was said, too, a flower, one for myself, two for me, three for me. Here a fellow Member said that Mr Rupel had somehow begun a deviation from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement due to the consolidation of the Slovenian right. I don't really know what that means. I would like to ask you how you feel about this agreement today or what you will do in this area. It was also said that I was particularly ill, and Mr Lavrinc said that Mr Rupel was that it was a Ljubljana 'pam' playing for as long as everyone was playing as soon as it was not, and it left the game. This is a few things that, of course, I was not expecting by my friends or perhaps today. And why would I say that? I say this because today, when colleagues from the ruling coalition overpraise you, you can, of course, also count on them not to praise you so much at some point if you obviously make a move that you do not agree with. If someone is so powerless to emphasize some virtues, then one gets the feeling if I can express myself in such a way that he wants someone to flatter himself. You have a responsible period ahead of you, Mr. Minister. Slovenia will chair the OSCE organisation next year. There are 55 countries, including the United States, Russia. This will probably be one very difficult and responsible period when it is necessary to coordinate these relationships, which can be very complex and tense in this time and now and, of course, in the future. I would therefore be very interested in how you imagine how you will be, as Foreign Minister, how Slovenia will play this role in this responsible role that awaits it. The area of our relations with Croatia, what has already been started many times today. I wrote yesterday, Mr Juri of the United List said that in relations between Slovenia and Croatia, when he took politics into the hands of Drnovšek. We all know this at some point, but if we look at it in fact, these relations with Slovenia with Croatia in no way are really solved. We have adopted an agreement on a nuclear power plant, but things are getting complicated in this area. The opposition then objected to this agreement. She opposed, in particular, because she is not addressing this agreement as one of the biggest problems in this area, she is not addressing the issue of nuclear waste disposal. By this agreement, we have in fact postponed this part of Croatian waste collection to a period when the nuclear power plant will cease to operate. I would therefore like to know what you will do in this area in order to resolve this issue sooner. The issue of Croatian savers, with the exception of a few individuals, is also constantly raised. We know that this story was completely at the beginning, but that individuals who, with the help of the President of the State of Kučan, the former President, have come to their savings, have made it even more difficult to solve this issue definitively and fairly. The second question is the border at sea. I wouldn't talk about it much. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw your attention to a dilemma that locally employs me very much. I come alone from Ormož. This Drnovšek-Račan agreement has, of course, defined the border between Slovenia and Croatia in the whole area. I would like to remind you that during the time of the former Yugoslavia, an accumulation lake was built near Ormož, for the Varaždin hydroelectric power plant. This accumulation lake is about two thirds in the Slovenian region and one third in the Croatian region, named Ormo Lake. With this agreement, the entire Ormo Lake was left to Croatia. But there are sunken agricultural land in this lake, a former agricultural community, and I think it's three: Smokers, Franks, and Obrez. The representatives of these agrarian communities feel that they have somehow been played out, that they have not been returned to any of these lands, and that the country has simply given up the Lake of Ormo. In the future, however, there is a desire to establish a landscape park at this lake in our congregation. As a local Member myself, I do not think that this solution and this abandonment of the Ormo Lake to the whole country of Croatia is good and that we will need to agree again in this area. Today, as most likely future minister, you are also aware of this problem and the dissatisfaction of the local population. I want you, Mr. Minister, to do your job successfully. I have no doubt that you will be elected. I invite you, like your predecessor, Minister Rupel in some of the national projects that are of course important to the country, and the border is certainly, to also invite the opposition to participate, as was the case with the European Union and with NATO, because only as an external minister can you succeed, so can you, as an external minister, win the favor of the opposition. Your predecessor, Dr. Rupel, has no doubt, and that is also what yesterday's debate showed that he had this support of the opposition. That is why entry into the European Union and entry into NATO was so successful. Let me get this straight. I wish you a great deal of success, and I hope you will take this letter for granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Roman Jakič, he gets his word for law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that it is interesting to monitor today's debate on the proposal to appoint a new foreign minister. I was surprised, for example, by the performance by Mr Pukšič, who spoke or quoted a letter beginning with the insults of the director of the Office for Slovenians around the world. I think that this is incorrect and throws a bad light and in some way creates some bad climate, not least for taxpayers who pay for the activities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is leading with regard to Slovenians in place and around the world. I must say that if Mr Pukšič had given up all these trips when traveling around the world at the expense of taxpayers, that even some hour of the radio programme of our foreigners could be more funded by our country, we should think a little about this in the next mandate. In addition, I listened to my respectable colleague Kangler talking about what would be better, who would take over the ministry, or Dr Kkkruk, who had expired his mandate, or Mr Wigel, who had arrived in the Republic of Slovenia in the middle of his term as Ambassador. It's a selector's thing. And in that case, it's the Prime Minister. And he decided to trust Mr. Wigel. But I would not say to Mr Wigel that he had returned in the middle of his term and wanted to become a minister, but I would congratulate him on his hope that he would return in the middle of his term and take the criticism and non-criticism of this national assembly and the public, because, after all, like most or part of the policy, when it is very hot and hot, the elections are usually left behind. Mr Wigel could enjoy two more years at the embassy and then return to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, wait for what will happen at the next state elections. So I am in some way acknowledging to Mr Wigel that he was brave to point out his name, to highlight his career, to point out his family, to become or to become an external minister. But Mr Wigel has nothing to do with what was said today about the 1st item we discussed yesterday. Why should Mr. Wigel answer the question why Dr. Rupel was replaced? He did not replace him, but we replaced him in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Prime Minister. And those of you who don't know, let me tell you that in the diplomacy of the new minister, there is no question why the previous minister was dismissed because it is not hygienic, and above all, it is not a constant in diplomacy. On the contrary, that's not the question. And I must say that I have already stressed yesterday that everyone with whom I spoke knows, of course, that the Prime Minister can replace a minister, because this is a European, European standard. Some countries, and a large majority of them, are also, of course, written that the Minister does so without the approval of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I've known Mr. Wygle since 1992, when he was an ambassador to Sweden. One quality besides the others that was discussed today, of course, surprised me most positively with him. And that's the quality of dialogue. The quality of the dialogue in the sense that it was not difficult for him to discuss major national issues or local topics. By the way, if I go back to the criticism and calls about the Slovenians in the foreign and in the foreign, it was Mr Wigel who, when the hottest question was Radio2, helped us to convince the Austrian authorities that this Radio2 had come back to life if you wanted to. However, I was present at meetings, with him, with Mr Klestil and, of course, with the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Peter Schieder, who is also the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where he strongly questioned the rights of Slovenians and Slovenians living in Austria. He put it very hard. I must say that that is why I liked it, that it is not only diplomatic when it comes to the interests of Slovenia, but it can be harsh when it comes to Slovenian interests. That is why, in this context, I see Mr Wigel's work also at the discretion of these three months, and I hope that, even in the next term, as a positive change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Wigel will also cooperate very properly with the members of the committee, both in the Committee on Foreign Policy and, of course, in the National Assembly itself, because he has already proved that all Members, regardless of the functions we had, which we went to Sweden, Austria or Germany, we were accepted and supported, if you wish, on his part, fully. At least my personal experience is such that Mr Wigel has always prepared and suggested to me which topics should be highlighted in particular when talking or negotiating with foreign parliamentarians, foreign parliamentary presidents, foreign committee presidents. And in this context, I see Mr Wiegle as a very good candidate for the post of Foreign Minister. As I said in the introduction earlier today, unfortunately he did not enjoy such a solitude of headlamps as the former Minister and did not demand medals or immodestly owned credit for everything he did for Slovenia. That's why it's ugly to think he's being held hostage by Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Mr Wigel is a candidate who is bound by a friendship with the previous Minister, which he spoke of in a very patient manner, and, of course, was invited by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the government. And I congratulate him on the courage he had, that in the middle of his term, where he could enjoy the role of Ambassador with all the ratings he was up to, enjoyed as much as some say, eased for ambassadors for another two years to gather this courage, this courage, he highlighted his name, and I came as a candidate for the future foreign minister. Of course, I will be very pleased to support Mr Wygle as the future new Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler, I'll allow you a replica. You've been challenged, appointed,
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u48	That's right. Thank you for your word. My colleague Jakič, to a great extent I agree with you and this praise from you to Mr Wyglu in this place has been overkill today. I think it is from the debate of all my predecessors and also members of the opposition that they have a correct, respectful attitude towards Mr Wigel and also appreciate his work so far. I think that the debate would be completely different if there were no such confidence and no respectable attitude towards Mr Weigle by our opposition Members. But it's true that I mentioned Dr. Krackus in my discussion. It is also true that I have the right, as a Member, to ask why Mr Wigel has decided on this function why he has taken the challenge of running for Foreign Minister halfway as Ambassador. The third truth, Comrade Jakič, is that your colleague has challenged me to be satisfied, given that colleague Wygel is coming from Maribor. I have certainly mentioned it myself, and I am also pleased that it will be loyal to the foreign policy and the policy of the Republic of Slovenia that it will also have opposition support. And I was also aware, in this place I hope and dare also to commend Mr Wigel, that there is one of the few ambassadors who has a respectful attitude towards Members when they come to you in that country where individual diplomats work, that his attitude towards us, who in any way travel abroad and also his reception, is slightly different from that of the other individual ambassadors. And many times we Members were disappointed by such receptions. With Mr Wigel, as far as I know and as far as I can tell, these receptions were correct, even with his personality, he was paying attention to the issues that we Members were facing at these receptions. So this replica, which was given to me by you, was incorrect, incorrect, and not accurate. And if you read the tape of my performance, you might find that, not just mine, but all the others, we have some respect for this candidate. It is true that if he was an ambassador to the United States of America, he has a reputation, he is worthy of respect. The problem is that it is the personal decision of the Prime Minister, why he did not invite this gentleman for this function or why he did not offer it to him. Given that you have said many times and even in the media, Comrade Jakič, it has been said that you have many apolitical candidates, as some apolitical ministers have been appointed at one of the previous meetings, today we can find that there is no theapolitanism in these candidates and that they are political. And my question to the candidate was in place. If he asks him whether he is a member of the LDS, whether he has entered the party and what it was that he decided to take up the post of Foreign Minister for a period of three months as a successful ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany. I think your replica or your statements, as far as I'm concerned, were incorrect and even incorrect, colleague Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u49	My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Dear Vice-President, since the word is not a horse, I will say again what I have said, namely, that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who decides whether Dr Kkruk or Mr Wigel. And only the Prime Minister knows why he invited Mr. Wygle. The second inaccuracies are that questions can be asked. I ask: Why did the Slovenian People's Party not ask such questions where they belong? The candidate for the future foreign minister was represented on the Foreign Policy Committee, where he was so-called hearing, where he could also be asked this. Black, I think, of course, political affiliation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Please, allow me, I'm the one who allowed the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Each individual will, of course, decide for himself whether he will answer that question. Again, I stress that you had the opportunity to ask him a lot more, much more in detail, but you did not take advantage of this, because of course you want to take advantage of the opportunity of direct TV transmission, rather than working in working bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Mr. Pukšič, I didn't see you when Roman Jakič debated. I didn't see you here in the hall. You haven't been to the hall at all that now, maybe there's someone on a business trip, but he's come well, you have the floor. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As for the visits of Slovenes and Slovenians around the world, what Mr Roman Jakič said is incorrect. The truth is the opposite. Both the Foreign Policy Committee and our Commission received reports from embassies to the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Foreign Ministry after all the visits. The Commission, composed of 10 members of Parliament, from each political party one member at a time, except for the Liberal Democracy, which had two members, was adopted unanimously in this committee. There was no decision by the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world that members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List or the DeSUS would oppose. And that was in agreement, and that was in agreement. Therefore, the allegations made by his colleague Roman Jakič are incorrect. It is true, however, that Roman Jakič traveled extensively during this term, but Slovenians and Slovenians did not detect his journey in the preferred votes in the elections. I am sure that our work has not only been expressed, but also in writing and with approval and, of course, too little activity and too little active work in the past to Slovenia and Slovenians around the world is very thorough and beneficial especially for Slovenia as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Comrade Jakic, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Mr Vice President, you gave Mr Puksic your word and he was not in the Chamber. He doesn't even know what he was talking about or what I was talking about. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that he simply warned that he had politicised or raised the question that he had submitted the reports to the parliamentary delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Of course, I believe that colleague Pukšič, if he can read it in English, will read it in all the minutes that are regularly sent to the National Assembly and where all the shows are recorded and, last but not least, are also considered on the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I am the head of the delegation. However, I argue that it can be calculated that the President of the Slovenian Commission has spent more resources than I have used for my journeys. And my controversy was that for this money, some hour more of the program could be devoted to our Slovenes in place than it's meant for.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u57	We are moving away from the debate on the item we have on the agenda. Comrade Joseph Jerovšek, he has his word. Now he hasn't named you. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. What colleague Roman Jakič was saying is not true. For the first time, it is not true that I did not listen to the debate. He, if he was in this hall, of course he can't know where I was and where I was doing it. But second, which is not true, that from this title, not one single tolar could be able to "cash" because the items in the budget are defined, what is in place for the programme of work of Slovenians, what is for the programme of work of Slovenians around the world. It is true, however, that our Commission has always unanimously adopted amendments, which were then not adopted in the National Assembly. This is because, unfortunately, the members of the coalition did not have the mandate of their parliamentary groups, but, of course, their personal positions, which were much more noble than those of the Group of Members and Members such as Roman Jakič, no matter what is written in English. The fact is, obviously, your work of Slovenia and the Slovenians didn't detect and perceive it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Jože Jerovšek, a word for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Candidate! You yourself mentioned at the hearing that your performance on the Committee on Foreign Policy took place under emotional circumstances, which are regrettable. Clearly, you have considered the needs of the Prime Minister and of the intention of government Members to initiate, by violating the Rules of Procedure, the process of appointing an external minister before the discharge of the former Minister, in stock, as it is said. I think we should confirm to ourselves that the Prime Minister is in stock because there are major mistakes. I also regret that your diplomatic and personality integrity has been undermined by this, because I know you as a capable diplomat who is very experienced and I do not find it difficult to commend you in this regard. However, I would point out that your mandate will take place not only within the emotional and populist needs of the government, but also during the pre-election passions. And apparently, the ruling majority will no doubt try to abuse foreign policy for their political purposes. This is happening here today. Mr Jakič is attacking the President of the Slovenian Commission around the world, unwarrantedly, by drowning. A number of other cases of foreign policy abuse. I'll count some of them later. But as a result of these abuses, I ask you how do you think you will be able to strike a balance between what you are obliged to do in the National Assembly, the adopted government policy and, obviously, what awaits the Prime Minister, who is in no way able to gain independence from another power centre, which represents primarily the interests of Slovenian bourgeoisie. Yesterday it turned out that the failure to remove these dictatorships in the Slovenian government could be a sign of the Minister's shooting. If I give you one example of how Slovenia is also manipulating and working. Look, it was known that the National Assembly almost unitedly supported the inclusion in NATO. The Minister has successfully implemented this policy with barbecue and diplomatic skills. At the same time, a large part of his party was vehemently opposed to the decision and, through influences and pressure on the media, spread natoscepticism, combative natoscepticism. About the existence of such a maneuver of manipulation, I introduce the case and I quote he spoke to the editor of Del Damjan Kosher on Intelekta 15.06. 2004 in his radio show Intelect. This evidence is Mr Koshir, who himself offered by an officer who, at the beginning of the race against former Minister Rupl, published an apparently ordered pamphlet: a large man of small principles, which was referred to yesterday by government Members, pointing to a political cord with editorial policy. And this quote was said, regarding the impact on voters, he says, "...and how we can influence this, it turned out at the time of NATO's accession, when we deliberately sowed the seeds of doubt and the natoscepticism began to spread and the outcome of the referendum was very uncertain for a while. Then we reconsidered the positions and we said, we're in. "This happened when some influential politicians finally identified themselves as NATO. And it must have been a call. Tone Kramberger, who participated in the same show, commented: "This is a typical example of the engaged media in political options when alternatives are still open. It is this role of the media that shows that the media participate directly in power and that they can plan the outcome. These manipulations seem perverted to me." Me, too. And in such circumstances, with such levers, with such backgrounds, Mr candidate, you will have to lead foreign policy in this pre-election hot weather. The Prime Minister did not decide that he himself would lead this bridge period, which would be the most logical, although he had already run the transport ministry in the past, but I don't know what he was doing when the Minister of the People's Party was on sick leave. And I ask you if you are aware of this situation, because this is the domestic reality of the management of central policy in the external field. With this involvement of the media and actors, the destruction of the former minister, I think it will be very difficult to restore this diplomatic, a genuine professional attitude of the foreign policy of Slovenia, because it is almost clear that it will want to inherit in some way what the former minister has done, for which he had to be shot. Look, it's not just that. When former Minister Rupel replaced the predecessor, Mr Frlec, at the hearing, I asked him how many foreign ministers Slovenia would have after his takeover. Because at the time, it was said in all media that Slovenia had at least three foreign ministers, the former president of the country, the then prime minister of the government, who was very involved in the foreign policy field, and the then foreign minister. And Mr Rupel, aware that it is not easy to manage the resort, said 'we are all foreign ministers' to diplomatically get away with it. In fact, it has turned out that Slovenian politicians are foreign ministers in the background who are destroying foreign ministers, that the Prime Minister is sometimes the transmission of these interests from the background. With these abuses, I think there is something else I would like to ask you. The last time the Dutch ambassador presented the priorities of the Dutch Presidency, two influential LDS members came to, in my opinion, an unkind, insular problem with the political profile of the future President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso. His negative characterization was cited here that there were significantly better candidates on the table before him and so on, despite the fact that President Rob had already raised his hand for Mr Barroso before that performance. This duality, this duality in front of the local audience, which is going into the ruling policy; and I wonder what you have to say about the fact that after the Prime Minister has identified himself as a policy coming from the Central State, which we, Slovenians, in my opinion, have been cheering for him to be from England or from a strong country. I think that would be significantly worse for us. And so literally pouring with the manure of the almost-established President of the European Commission, I think it is in the interest of Slovenian interests. Diplomatic dispatches will fly here, I'm sure. And I don't know if the only interest in harming the Slovenian position is. Then I would ask you if you could answer me how you would assess the implications, the claims made by Mr Battelli, who voted in favour of Mr Rope's government, when he claimed, during his visit to the Foreign Policy Committee, that only the Vatican, the Holy See and the Republic of Italy could negotiate the return of art to the Minority Monastery in Piran. Isn't that clearly an eccentric denial of Slovenia's sovereignty over the Slovenian coast? As foreign minister for the purchase of these minority voices, will you take a calm view, despite my warnings, of such policies, or will even vote for the entire Primorska to vote for the province with special status with associations to free market territory, which was not under the sovereignty of Yugoslavia and not of Slovenia at the time. And that was a calm view of such important integration political implications of certain documents. There is an attack on Mr Puksic's commission for foreigners and, at the same time, not even the former Minister, nor in this government has he been able to execute the law on the soundness of Slovenian media. In this mandate, however, the law voted has already not been implemented consciously in the preceding year. I wonder if you will stand up, Mr Robe has promised you something that you will be able to do in this area. For Slovenian patriotism, for Slovenian patriotism, you will do something about the Slovenian feelings of foreigners. Will we write them off and cross them as has been the case so far? You've been asking questions about any pressure on the client line to enter the LDS. I would like to know what the Prime Minister is saying to the future candidate, given the immediate entry of these young ministers, who represented themselves as non-party experts and are now on the nose, I would say, even with ignorance of my internal customer situation, they jumped into a pool without water. Yeah, look, how else can I comment, if Dr. Matthew Lahovnik says, philosophies have to write strategies. It is in this party that a graduate philosopher has been writing all the human resources strategies for 10 years. And he says that philosophers cannot attribute strategies. It's a contradiction. I would also like to ask you, Mr candidate for a minister, with whom I must say that we have agreed on many occasions in foreign affairs and in your foreign political views, I have no doubt, on the occasion of today's performance by my colleague Shirca, when she mentioned your knowledge of music, of playing the musical instrument, and in this context, with negative connotation, as always, she mentioned the control of organica play by another foreign policy successful Slovenian policy, Mr Peterlet. She didn't mention him. The connotation was this, the company, "even you could play if it wasn't unworthy. Now that you have also been a cultural ambassador to Slovenia through your husband, I am interested in your opinion on the cultural level of this type of permanent discrediting of the former Foreign Minister, Mr Peterlet, who is undoubtedly a successful Slovenian ambassador abroad, in the European Union. I would like to recall the statement made prior to the start of the electoral campaign, "for the European Member, there is something more to know than how to play the organ." These constant statements by the leftist dogmatics, with such statements, would I ask myself whether these diplomatic Slovenian leftists will still need to know more about the future American President than to play guitar here. That would be an analogy. Whether this will also interfere with and discredit American policies. I am really interested in the dignity of such performances by influential Slovenian politicians, and even cultural ones, who sell themselves, as if they knew culture. Mr candidate, I can say all of this that an obvious plan, which you probably do not know, is because you were a little distant, that in this country there would be an external policy of a girl of internal policy, that the internal political failures of the current facility would be covered up with a successful foreign policy in the past. That's clearly clear. This manoeuvre to replace a successful foreign minister has certainly resulted in the discreditation of Slovenian diplomacy and an attempt at party ideological diplomacy discipline, which is contrary to the essence of diplomacy as a service of the state. I'm surprised at these arguments about all the crowding that happened yesterday, because the minister attended some public tribunal. Look, Mr. Candidate, once again, I believe in your experience, I know it, I know your abilities, but in order to protect your diplomatic, political and personal integrity, I will vote against you not going to this government that uses such methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you, colleague Jerovšek. By the order of the reported and present, Zoran Gračner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u62	A respected, respected candidate for the minister. I will certainly vote in favour of your election to the post of Minister, because I myself have been able to make sure that it is one of the most serious and experienced Slovenian diplomats who has used all his service to be a true cultural ambassador to Slovenia in all the countries where he acted as ambassador. Perhaps with the criticisms I've been listening to here, the same thought has awakened again as it did yesterday. On the one hand, colleagues who were constantly attacking the foreign minister on the Foreign Policy Committee were defending him yesterday. On the other hand, I would like to say one thing, perhaps very important, that Mr candidate was an ambassador in 10 countries today's enlarged EU and that we have also heard him here on the Foreign Policy Committee, of which I am also a member, on our own. And I can say he's the only candidate who hasn't yet won the vote against his election. So everything you read to him before, I don't know where you were when you could have, [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But your former colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u64	All that you've seen, what is your leader of the parliamentary group, what you've previously seen, you could already be on the Foreign Policy Committee. [[...]] That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Please, please, please, please, please, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u66	the only candidate who can boast that all the ambassadors' mandates have passed with all the votes of support, none of them have been opposed. [[...]] Therefore, from all these statements I will certainly give my voice [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I can also say that twice when I was in his company abroad, once with a delegation in Vienna, as once in Berlin, I can assure myself that I also have great respect and appreciation, because in my opinion and in my opinion this is a true candidate who deserves all the support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Frankly, I think that two and a half months before the elections, this doing in the National Assembly, which we are going to today, is funny. The usual foreign policy in the world, and also in our country, is represented primarily by the Prime Minister and, of course, by the Prime Minister, also by the Foreign Minister. Therefore, I see no other reason for this proposal by the Prime Minister to appoint Mr Iv Wigel as the new foreign minister, as an attempt to further staff cleansing at embassies and, of course, to be completed in this mandate for the next term of the new candidate at the embassy in Germany. I believe, however, that the role of the Foreign Minister, after the former Minister, is very unappreciative from the candidate. Ungrateful role because the Foreign Minister was relieved of his differing views, political opinions regarding the creation of a possible new better coalition in this country. I believe that it is an outrageous attempt to evaluate one of the fundamental democratic values, which, even under our Constitution, should be that every citizen, of course, has the right to express his political opinions freely, as well as the Minister of Government, when doing so in private matters, not as Minister of Government. Of course, none of what would have been exceeded in the former minister's role could be seen, so, of course, this role that Mr candidate takes is very ungrateful. I believe, however, that the findings from the position, particularly the Liberal Democracy, are absolutely unfounded at the expense of the opposition, since the opposition has already criticised the policy and work of the former Minister for Foreign Affairs on the Foreign Policy Committee so far. That's not entirely true. It is probably due to the opposition, especially the opposition, as well as the Slovenian People's Party, when it was in the government, that it was always protecting the Minister for Foreign Affairs when, of course, it advocated the implementation of the key national priorities that were: Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenia's entry into NATO. Therefore, any such fillings are mildly hurtful. Deplorable not to the opposition, but, above all, to the key national objectives that we set ourselves in this country, of course, years ago. Of course, today we are in this situation as we are. I think it is also unnecessary to lose a lot of words when doing this, because I believe that there are even more important tasks ahead of us. However, I think that it is sad, above all, that this knowledge, which has been found through yesterday and today, that fundamental democratic standards have been established in this country, when it comes to achieving specific objectives, and that the de-declarative thinking of the Prime Minister, that this government is implementing an anti-bicratic programme to try to reduce the number of employees in the administration, to reduce the use of public administration, is only a floscule. On the other hand, when we see attempts at each human resources supply, how to fill the missing position as soon as possible in the state administration or in the functions, and how to adapt your staffing needs, and also how to spend extra taxpayer money; this I think is worrying. Especially when we witnessed a very late and populist performance by the Prime Minister yesterday, when on the other hand we are able to witness how tax money is spent needlessly. I just expect that such events, which have been taking place for quite some time, will also slowly clear the decision of the electorate and the electorate, and that they will decide on a more rational government when they have the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you. We have thus concluded the debate on the applied candidates who were at the time of their turn in the Chamber. I now give the floor to the candidate for Minister, Mr Iv Wigle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the very high level of this debate today, that many of you have made an effort among you to overcome what we are about, and I have also said what was an emotional figure of this process. In fact, he could remain in Berlin for two more years as ambassador in a relatively favourable private position and a sufficiently interesting professional challenge. However, when the Prime Minister offered me to compete for the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, I accepted this, so to speak, without question. Mr. Kangler, I will answer your question in this context and immediately. I have been a member of the Liberal Democratic Party for 10 years and, of course, I also function as a party member and I am interested in its programme and I am also prepared to engage in this programme. I'm thinking about electoral time now, too. However, it is also true that I have never been particularly a party-thinking person, and when I went to diplomacy, I have put party belonging and party behavior into a different plan and I have always behaved - and I am glad that some of you have also found that - I acted as an official and representative of the country I represented, in particular, and was always welcome to me, and not just welcome, everyone who came with a certain mandate, with some task in the country in which I worked. I would say, I would answer one question that has been asked several times today. The question of how I, as a possible foreign minister, represent the continuation of Slovenian foreign policy at this time, in this mandate, as long as it lasts. On the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I said very explicitly that Slovenian foreign policy was so consistent that it brought us to the European Union and NATO as a respected member. And that is why I think that, as Minister, if you call me, I can continue and guarantee the continuity of such foreign policy. So, I don't think it's necessary to change it, and I certainly don't have that ambition. Of course, each person does his job in his own way and is in fact a matter of style and temperament, including experience, including some life philosophy, how you react to a particular situation. I think it's important for diplomacy what some people think I'm boring, that I'm gray [[I do have gray hair.]] I don't always make myself clear. Journalists sometimes have problems with me, because I answer the question that I want to answer, not exactly what the journalist asked me. This will remain so, for every answer, especially when it comes to foreign policy and when it comes to responsibility on the shoulders of the foreign minister, is important not to say everything, not to say it immediately, not to answer it immediately; to think about it. Since the statement by the Foreign Minister means a binder for the State and for the obligation vis-à-vis other countries. So, I intend to act discreetly, and I intend to act discreetly, and if you want, also quietly, and I will never consider it my weakness. The other thing I'd like to say is this. I was happy to look at the opposition bench, the benches of my political friends always welcome me, but I was especially pleased to look at the opposition's bench, because I met very many members of Parliament here, whom I met abroad, met as Secretary of State and established good and useful relations, including sincere relations. I did not tact in these conversations that we had when we met because I have always had the interests of our country before my eyes. Of course, I commit myself to my attitude towards the opposition if you choose me if you support me, even if you don't, to remain as you have been. I'm a man looking for consensus looking for consensus looking for an agreement, a creative agreement. Every suggestion - and here I am grateful to my colleague Majda, who said this - actually look at the creation of some idea as some mosaic that must be created by the way, which is open, which is rich and therefore I will be open to all the participation of the opposition, for all ideas. After all, it is also important that even dissonant tonnes are important in Parliament because they open up the field and the interests of the country, even as they say in Germany: "Links aus" and "recht aus", also the extreme left wing and the extreme right wing can open up issues that are extremely important for the interests of the country and then show in the positive light of that and that power of the centre in the country that manages to form a central policy, a policy that also gives partners the impression that they have a solid partner. Now, let's say, I'm asking you how to do it first. I have listened carefully to your questions about relations with Croatia and the open questions we have. Normally, such questions do not come from countries other than neighbouring countries. In the case of neighbouring countries, there are always specific issues. Some are difficult and have been saved for a long time. In this short time until the elections, I intend to deal with some of these issues. Maybe at least to take some next step that can only be taken after the elections. But in every way, I mean this question, if you choose me, pay special attention. If you allow, I would now go through some and perhaps apologize first, because I probably won't answer all the questions, because it was also sometimes unclear whether it was meant as a question of whether it was thought as a comment, or whether it was meant simply as an expression of some suggestion, sent some. What was meant to be a guide, I will try to take full account, I will read the transcript as well, and if there is any question that deserves a written answer or is better to be answered in writing, I will see to it that we answer it in writing. Now I'd like to ask specific questions. Don't mind me. I found it now. [[...]] I've had a note here before, and I've continued my notes with the Foreign Policy Committee. In essence, I replied to Mr Podobnik by saying that, as a member of the European Union and NATO, we have a transitory foreign policy, we have a declaration by the National Assembly and, of course, we have objectives that are the same and that are reaffirmed in the European Union. The European Union is an organisation seeking consensus, which is built on the assumption that consensus will always be found because it is also wanted by the members. I think it is important for us to come to the European Union with concrete initiatives and with our views, and that we, of course, expect to make friends and support in the European Union, but not that we will urgently implement each proposal there as well. Mr Drobnic asked me what would change in those short two, three months in which my mandate would be realized. I think I've answered him with this before that it's not about changing foreign policy. It is that within the agreed foreign policy we are developing a continuous activity to seek some support for Slovenia to defend its interests and represent them in the world. The representative of the Youth Party drew attention to the issue of ethnic minorities. Mr Bernik also pointed to this issue, which Mr Puksic pointed out. I am sorry that we have not been able to pay any more attention to this subject in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I sketched it in my presentation just because I'm paying special attention to it myself, and I expected to talk more about it. My professional path led me through a number of countries where Slovenians were in different ways, so to speak. At first I acted as a journalist in Italy and learned about the issues of the Slovenian minority in Italy. Then I was in Cleveland, where I was learning Slovenian emigration, then I was in Sweden, where I was learning about European emigration, which came from temporary workers abroad, then in Austria I had a typically very developed Slovenian minority in Koroška, and then finally in Germany I met again with questions of our natives. I would say that I assure you that if I get a mandate, I intend to devote myself to these issues very intensively, even if it is necessary to make it very clear and very harsh. No offense, a good neighborhood must also bear a little more warning when we feel that the rights of our national minorities are being violated. In this regard, I join the comments made regarding the implementation of the Austrian State Treaty and the judgment of the Austrian Constitutional Court. I think that our relations with neighbouring Austria, which are extremely developed and essential and for which I have worked very hard in Austria to make them even better, more transparent, even more positive if we can also talk about these issues as good neighbours; for example, as representatives of Austrian political public life talk about the situation of the German-speaking minority in Italy in southern Tyrol. So, yes, Slovenians around the world are part of the Slovenian nation, part of our national body, part of our national culture and part of our current interest when it comes to economic integration, when it comes to cultural integration, when it comes to linking with the intellectual potential that our people have. I also think that the law that has been tabled on Slovenians around the world and instead of being a very important document and that it must be completed and adopted in any way. However, it seems to me that this will probably be difficult to do so in this mandate. If all cooperation is sufficiently intense, sufficiently expressed, I will not prevent this law from working in a way that it can be adopted, if not, but also commit itself to preparing this document so that it can be adopted in the next term. Mr Barovic spoke about my thesis that the Dutch Presidency presented itself, but also before us, a task that, in the coming period, until the ratification, which is scheduled to take place by 2006, we are aspiring to ratify this important document of the European Constitution. I have expressed only fear, which is quite widespread, that a large number of announced referendums may somewhat involve the process of ratification of the Constitution as a whole. However, the belief in European democratic circles is that this story will also unravel, as all European stories did, with compromise, and that it will not unravel in a way that someone will want to get rid of such an integrated Europe. No one has ever left the European Union and no one will ever leave such a union; in short, compromise will be sought. The role of Slovenia in the Balkans. Mr Juri spoke about this, and I have highlighted this in my concerns that, in seeking some special emphasis, some special added value that Slovenia can mean for European policy, we must logically stop in this niche, in this area. The European Union expects us to engage in this area so that we can apply some of our previous behaviour in this area [[language so on]] and the vast number of human connections that have remained, especially in the economic field, as well as in others; some of the trust we have, which Slovenia enjoys in this area. I think it is particularly gratifying that this confidence with Slovenia's entry into the European Union and then clearly increased; that Slovenia, regardless of the relative fact, is also small in this area, that it has confirmed itself and that it already sees a very important and large player. That's why I think it's important that we see our priorities in this. As far as politics and what happened in Iraq is concerned, such as Mr Yuri has apostrophed. I would say: from Iraq and the situation there today, in fact, the entire world public, the international public, has drawn certain conclusions; certain conclusions that lead forward, based on general satisfaction, that one dictator is less in the world and that the possibility of a more stable and democratic one opens up to our values, also closer to the development of Iraq and the entire region. However, the fact is also that the form, that is quickly and with sufficient military pressure to solve the problem, has lost something in its glow. Since it is obvious that war can be won, peace is much more difficult to establish, but in particular it is difficult to establish a new state-of-the-art process, taking into account the traditional values of a particular place and values brought by countries with traditional parliamentary democracy and respect for human rights and so on. And I think it is right and that our government's policy and the position that we have towards Iraq's conflict and post-war construction and democratisation of Iraq is that we cooperate as a maximum as a member of NATO and of the European Union in all the niche that brings agreement within the framework of NATO and the European Union. However, our cooperation in the training of the security forces is strictly limited to the territory of third countries. I have been asked here several times how I will answer the question of what happened and why Minister Rupel left his post. I've been reading a lot of media in different countries these days, and they've been reporting on this event. They did not describe it as an emotional and traumatic event, but they are reduced to facts. And the facts say that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister broke up on issues of internal policy, not foreign policy. And I must say, I have the impression that many of the following questions will then no longer appear. Now, as far as my personal attitude is concerned, I've told him and you've seen that the media have brought him, too, I do not intend to participate in any controversy that would diminish the results and reputation of Dr. Dimitri Ruple's work. I was his associate in the times that brought us closer because they were dramatic because they were important to Slovenia because they were creative because they demanded a maximum of all of us. Mr Bernick, who is sadly absent, touched on the issue that is close to him - my work as general consul in Cleveland. Mr Sugar said a few words about that, too. I must say that the period 1984-1988 was an extremely complicated period already falling apart those countries and conflicts that appeared in the most acute form first outside before they moved on the inside. My understanding of that time and the possibilities that opened up to me was that it was already necessary to act there in some way that people of different beliefs, you combine different fates. On several occasions, I have violated strict regulations that you claim to have been committed by the diplomats of the country at that time. I took part in initiatives we had, such as, say, the Summer Business School, which we had with Cleveland State University, as also lecturers from the kind of group that Mr Bernik called deleted. I was not concerned about who has a travel ban in the present Yugoslavia, I was giving visas to people who should not be given and so on. I think as far as I'm concerned, there's no shadow left and it would be hard to accept this qualification of some man's hard-handed. It wasn't me, and I'm not like that by nature. As regards Mr Christmas, your question about the agency and whether economic councilors can fully cover this matter and the requirement to inform potential investors and so on. At first glance, I think such an agency is important. Also because the network of our external economic advisers is in fact still a "torso", we do not have it developed. We all have more than a dozen economic advisers together, and usually these are people who are themselves who do not have logistical support, who can monitor, say, macroeconomic processes in their countries, can collect information, can sometimes provide some information, but cannot go deeper. For example, an economic councillor at the Embassy in Berlin. He's sitting in Berlin. Most of our economic relations take place with Bavaria, with Baden Württemberg, with these southern parts of the Federal Republic of Germany, where it does not practically come. The same applies to other large countries, France, I don't know, other countries, Poland. So I think that the economic advisor has a specific function, and the other part of the infrastructure, which he is combining with, has to be here. This is so, at first glance, my opinion, but, as I say, I will ask myself about it in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and perhaps I will be able to suggest something useful or take your suggestion into account. Mr. Kangler, you've commented more, you've thought more than you've asked me. I am also pleased that more Mariborians will be here in this national assembly. This is my town, and when you were talking about decentralisation, I think it's a good idea that some foreign policy event is also decentralized, and I'm sure I'll try to decentralize it fairly in Slovenia. Slovenia is essentially so small that it can only be the scene of some of the events where we come into contact with the world. That's what I think especially about culture. I don't have time to talk about this anymore, but I am very sure of the promoter and the organiser of culture, and I believe that Slovenia will probably become the most recognizable in the world and in Europe if we can open our culture and offer it to the world. As for - I don't know if this was a question of my music culture and organics, etc. - I must say that Mr Peterlet and I have met many times both in Vienna and Berlin and have had very good holidays, that I have also made sure that he has a great reputation as a politician in his political spectrum and that this has, after all, proved to be true both in the elections here and in the elections outside and that I will be allowed to say so. I don't know if I answered all your questions. I have to say, it was very hard to write and somehow try to summarize. Finally, I thank you once again for your attention, for your kindness, for your well-intentionedness and once again to ensure that I will be open to every initiative if you show me confidence, and that, as we say, we will continue with the foreign policy that has brought respect and, in fact, satisfaction to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivo Wigel. The Prime Minister is busy at this time visiting the President of the State of Romania and cannot attend our meeting at this time. I would like to introduce you to the progress of your work so that you can make a better decision on how to use this time. After the end of this point, i.e. after the vote and if the candidate for a minister is confirmed, we will be informed of two conclusions and then we will stop working for 45 minutes to prepare the necessary change to the voting apparatus for the return of the dismissed Minister Dr Rupl, who will return to the bench. When we're done with this, we'll have the device set, we'll go to agenda three. I therefore ask you now whether anyone else would like to discuss it in accordance with Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. I have four more candidates for the five-minute debate. Mr. Cuckoo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The candidate has answered quite a few questions, but he has not answered one, and I would like to repeat it. I suggest you give him five minutes to answer. That is, a concrete example that we will not be too philosophical. If I did, I would not say civil society, but the opposition organised a public tribunal in Cankarjev dom on the subject of Slovenia and its place in Europe and in the world and would also invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs to provide some information, an opinion, a report: whether he would take part in this tribunal - I stress, despite the opposition's organisation and, if he did resent it, for example, Mr Gaber. Would you take this stand and risk the same fate that Mr. Ruple faced?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Mr candidate, given that you have made a clear case against Slovenian media manipulation, which is spreading the voice that Parliament will no longer play an important role after entering the European Union, but you said that it would be and must be the central house of policy information, which I fully agree with, I am surprised that in response to the question you have answered in accordance with your maxima, how you acted to journalists as a "portparol" or diplomat, that you have always answered what you wanted to answer, not what the journalists have asked. I think that, in this relation, policies against politics, a candidate against a Member, would be good, as my colleague Tsukati has already pointed out, to be answered directly. Maybe the answers to my questions are running out of time. For this reason, I expect that there may still be a possibility of whether the permissive frustrations of the Liberal Democracy being discussed through the prism of this severe defeat would be negative about the candidate for the European Commissioner, whether it is wise, useful for Slovenia. That's a question I've already asked. Secondly, I would like to focus a little bit more on the policy of neighbouring Croatia, which I had forgotten before. Here today, many Members took their views on the implementation of Slovenian policy towards neighbouring Croatia. I hope that "lapsus lingue" happened to Comrade Barovic when he said that our position must be permanent, he repeated the word Stoic three times. I just think that the only thing in this area Slovenia has actually worked too hard so far. That this is an area where the former Foreign Minister did not actually play a decisive role, because the former Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, as the current Prime Minister, Mr Rop, was involved in this area because of extraordinary ideological, political connections, political equality with neighbouring Croatia under the previous government, and they felt at home that it was their pool. It does not surprise me, or I must ask myself, what does it mean that in the magazine I mentioned earlier, the responsible editor in some way had his political cord, the connection with these centres of power, the indications by which Mr Ruper said the order had come for his resolution - to record here that the former minister had a significant different tactic and position, and the policy of blackmail and populism policy towards Croatia, which should be led by the former Minister. I believe that it was in this area that Slovenia was never a bit blackmailing, but it should be; it should take advantage of its comparative advantages in view of the situation in Europe and NATO, that is legitimate. But now it's as if we were blackmailing the Croats. What kind of policy does it promise if you are ascribed to you, Mr. Candidate, that you will now be significantly more flexible? I don't know where it grew. I have a certain relation to this political potential for this journalist, because she was with us for 10 days on a visit to China, and she didn't come to press conferences, I'm afraid not. And that really makes me wonder what all this means. But given that this officer is extremely well informed, as I said before, by this "sub-shipment" of authority, I'm really interested in what's supposed to happen here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u75	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u76	The foreign minister's candidate also spoke a lot about foreign policy in this last performance by answering some questions, but this is obviously a completely irrelevant matter for the Foreign Minister. Yesterday we talked about now the former foreign minister, who was good at implementing these foreign policies, probably even better than you could ever have, but the Prime Minister has proposed a replacement because he personally did not like it because he went to a convention in Cankarjev's home, so I suggest you add to these guidelines that you avoid Cankarjev's home because it is more dangerous for the Minister of Foreign Affairs than if he does not carry out the direction of the national assembly. The fact is that the ruling coalition from the replacement and appointment of a new foreign minister has made a farce where the arguments apply nothing, and this is also a conversation about these foreign policy orientations more or less a facade, for which there are completely different reasons, as well as performance assessments in various government departments. So, as has already been said, for your fate or any minister in the government run by Mr Rob, it is completely irrelevant whether he is doing well or doing bad, it is important that he does not resent him or those around him. And apparently such a policy, which is not based on arguments, is based on some real judgement whether someone works for the welfare of Slovenia or not, the motto works for the current government coalition that is fortunately ending. Earlier, in one of his performances, one of the DeSUS members took this opportunity and spoke about the Slovenian Democratic Party's expert council, if it were not. Clearly, this Member is not a master at modern technology. The entire structure of the Slovenian Democratic Party's professional council has been published on our website for some time. Eight committees for eight sources have had presentations so far, public presentations, which were mainly presented in the media, with the exception of the most hard-line ones, and I was hoping that this has also happened to DeSUS Members. However, given that they have not established in four years what the Coalition Treaty says about the need for compensatory schemes and did not require their own minister to propose this law, I am not surprised that they have not found that the Slovenian Democratic Party's professional council has existed for some time now, that all the presidents of these committees have been presented, and that eight public presentations of the programme have been launched substantially before the government has prepared a strategy, the so-called strategy for the development of Slovenia in the future, which is now in the public debate for which we have paid, we will pay all taxpayers, and this strategy will pay the largest government party. Each party - I respond to what was in the debate of one of the DeSUS Members, I think that this is exactly what the chairman was talking about, and if he could talk about it, I can answer it at a time that is, of course, available to me. In short, as far as this is concerned, this program exists. If DeSUS Members do not know this, they can still read it on our website. On 15 July, the presentation of the entire programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Sectional Council for the next term and the warm invitation will also be extended to all four or three DeSUS Members present. So, I will never agree that only members of the government's party are allowed to speak about certain things in this national council, even if it is DeSUS, a party that "as" stands for pensioners and has not been able to convince its own minister in the government within four years to propose a law on compensatory schemes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u77	He's riding the Evil One.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Thank you. "What, Fanst, who with Mephist grinds the sky's parquets, the nail in my shoe is stronger than all the poetry that Goethe can do. Therefore, diplomatic parquetry is discreet, otherwise it would not be effective. That is why foreign ministers, who want to be the main dancer, are the only dancer who forgets what their job is because of this self-pity and selfishness. And I'm sure, as I know the discretion of the new foreign minister, he won't hesitate to be himself a great actor and everyone else just his shadow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Thank you. It was very interesting to hear some debates from that end of the hall, which today were very critical of our diplomacy or our foreign policy, and from that end yesterday came a number of praises for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is the first to be responsible for the implementation of this policy. Otherwise, I would just like to remind you something about the answers that Mr Wigel gave to the candidate. Speaking of Iraq and the war and the crisis - I agree with your assessment that it is easier to win war with military force than to bring peace later. The problem is also that those who have used force have used it beyond the mandate of the only authority of the world that they can grant, these are the United Nations, and have also used this force with lies, because we are all glad that this dictator is no longer, Saddam Hussein, but that was not the reason for the aggression. The aggression was based on the alleged existence of weapons of mass destruction, and from this title was laid down from the very beginning. The world has come to realize this, and I agree with you that this is a lesson for the world, the world community, but we have already had such a story with Vietnam its time, and I hope that they have also come to know in the United States that they need some reconstruction in the White House and that such things will not happen again. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Weighle, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Your Honor, Mr. Tuckati, answered your explicit question. If I receive an invitation from any civil society, political parties to discuss foreign policy on principled matters, on principled foreign policy issues, I will, of course, accept such an invitation. However, I would not have accepted him to the assembly, as he had been called and formulated, because he was also formulated in my opinion and, in my opinion, as an alternative to this government and to the political party to which I belong, so now I have volunteered you with two answers. But basically, I'm always here to talk and talk no matter what we know about each other and what our political origins are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I conclude the debate. I will move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: 'For the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ivo Wygl'. Explanation of voice. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Dear fellow Members, I welcome you once again. Allow me to call you one last time as a Member before I focus on my profession in particular. Yesterday I worked with you practically in my so-called last mission. As required by the normal democratic procedure, today I am returning this place to my colleague, Dr Rupl, in the National Assembly, and at the same time allow me to express my best wishes for his work in the parliamentary benches, irrespective of his leaving our client. I wish him one day to find the political option in which he will finally achieve the fulfilment of his political ambitions. Today, there will be a vote on the new foreign minister, who does not have to be represented in particular by those who do not have to be represented by Slovenian diplomacy. Indeed, Mr Wigel is a professional diplomat, a man who, for his professional and life's purpose, has given himself the task of serving Slovenia in its application in the world and the gold in the protection of its interests. No matter how hard it used to be, he never refers to past merits, but he is willing to take it anywhere he thinks he can benefit his country with his knowledge and experience. This could not only be testified to by fellow diplomats, about which Slovenians around the world can say, in particular our Slovenian minority. That's what magic is all about. Robbery proposed that such an experienced and esteemed diplomat should be headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and thus showed that he values not only him personally but also respects and appreciates the efforts made by professional diplomacy. Fellow Members, I thank my colleagues in Liberal Democracy for their support, my participation in these almost eight years, and it has been a great privilege to work with you for [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ideas and goals that I believe deeply in. [[...]] However, in general, respected colleagues, all in a row, regardless of colors, customers and the like, I think that we have cooperated properly in these years and thus had one single objective, and this is the welfare of the country. I think we can all say that, regardless of party membership. To all of you, I would like to continue your work with success and one last such call: it was nice for me and you. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u86	I didn't call back yesterday or today, because in some way it didn't feel right to me, because the previous Foreign Minister and the future I've known for 40 years, I think we're friends with at least one writer's friend, if I say so, for Mr Iv Wigel. And it would seem incorrect to add here. All I would say is that I appreciate what has been repeatedly called a second option or a bad choice in the discussion, but I think it is great that the Prime Minister has decided to stand up or propose an external minister. It would be good for me, although you know that I respect Mr Rob and he is an excellent expert in many areas, as he was also a minister of various fields, I would feel a little close to my heart if I thought we did not have an external minister. There are three months ahead of us, but in foreign policy, and it can happen quickly, even an incident thing, and I think we need a professional and an expert. It's the right choice. I think that, in fact, if I said that I would not speak of some that we have chosen the best diplomat we have, I hope he will be elected, and I think that such a move was more beneficial for the country than if the Prime Minister had adopted this resort for the time being.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Mrzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. candidate Ivo Weighle, Members and Members of Parliament, dear people! I listened very carefully to yesterday's debate and also to today's debate, and I must say that, ever since we were fortunate enough to have gained independence and independence from Slovenia, there has been only one concern: that we would have had an anti-reformation that has already occurred to us in history and which so few know. I must say that everything that happened yesterday and with regard to the Republican Assembly is in fact a clear mask for some kind of counter-reform; let us now put this aside. I must say, I was surprised by Mr. Wigal's presentation. The first mentioned the cultural and intellectual potential. His presentation was peaceful and cultural. I don't think politics can do anything without culture and without knowledge of creative effort. I believe it will lead this area very well, and I will vote for Mr Wiegle. And I also thank him for accepting this candidacy in such a difficult time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Mr Ivo Wygl is hereby appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs." We're voting. There are 72 of us present, 47 Members and Members voted against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that Mr Ivo Wigel is appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs. I sincerely congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on his appointment and wish him to perform his duties successfully! I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u90	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary, I ask you because you have an opportunity, do you perhaps wish to speak before the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u92	This opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, I would only take this opportunity to thank you once again for your confidence, those who have supported me, and I recommend good cooperation with those who have not supported me. Again, I would like to thank you for your very kind, correct and substantive treatment; I will try to repay you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Before we go to the next item on the agenda, I also take note of the following conclusions. Firstly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, Dr Dimitrij Rupel is now re-established as a Member. On this occasion, I offer him a sincere welcome. I hope we make him feel good. And the second decision, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, ceases to act as Ambassador Alexander Merlo, acting in place of Dr Dimitri Rupl's Member of Parliament at the time he is acting as Minister. My fellow Members, Mr Merlo, allow me to thank you, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, all Members and Members, sincerely for your cooperation. I think in my words I share the thoughts of all of us, it's really nice that you were our co-worker. And the honourable colleague Merlo, especially the women's work, will sincerely regret that you are abandoning our species. Again, colleague Merlo, thank you so much for your cooperation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And as has already been announced, at 3 p.m. we will continue to consider item 3 of the agenda - by confirming the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue to work, moving on to treatment 3. Agenda items - Confirmation of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Between us, I very much welcome the Secretary of the Republic Election Commission, Mr Mark Golobič, and on this occasion thank him for all of us for the re-established and well-established elections. Under this item, the assembly will consider a proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission. Does the rapporteur of the election committee want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Vice President. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be very brief. In particular, it means congratulating all seven elected Members in the European Parliament. Slovenian voters and voters have chosen a good team for the European Parliament, and on our part we have a special congratulations to our four fellow Members who have played a very important role in the National Assembly: the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-President, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the President of the European Affairs Commission so far. This is said to have put a very good team in the European Parliament. We wish them a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support all seven candidates who were elected in the first European Parliament elections. I am confident that they will be well represented by Slovenia, so that Slovenia will establish a decent position. On this occasion, of course, I thank the voters and voters of the Republic of Slovenia, who so well supported New Slovenia in these elections. Of course, I also congratulate the other candidates on their election.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Allow me to welcome our new fellow Member, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Your welcome has been given this morning, but you're among us now. Good-bye! I hope we make you feel good. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by mag. Marco Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support this matter in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. Let me reiterate my congratulations to all those elected, and I hope that we can be proud of them as a country. I wish them a successful job and, of course, a nice greeting in Slovenia over 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not be. And the position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Allow me to congratulate once again all those who have been elected. I wish them a successful job and, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I also ask them to represent the interests of the Slovenians and the Slovenian people in a dignified and Stoic manner, and many successes at work in Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Several Members and Members have applied for the floor. Mr. Rokavec, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Bernick, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Diaci? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Barovich, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kangler? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Squirrel? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. A little more time has been scheduled for discussion, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that the time declared for the debate set for this item of the agenda has not yet expired, perhaps anyone else would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I can only see one hand. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I think it is necessary, however, for the elected representatives of Slovenia in the European Parliament to stress one fact that has recently been written down or declared irrelevant to many. Indeed, Slovenia has provided more than 40% of women with these elections to the European Parliament, which includes us in the upper layer of European countries, which will send their representatives to the European Parliament. Undoubtedly, on this occasion, it is worth thanking the important decision we have taken in the National Assembly with common powers and with a common consensus, namely by amending the law, amending the electoral law to the European Parliament. It is certainly also worth noting that it is a matter of respectable candidates, and even on this occasion it is true to stress this fact, especially in the light of the fact that it may not be sufficiently seen or understood that such a result has only occurred because of the intelligent deployment and will of political parties. It is also important to draw attention to a law that is not, however, and this can be proud of us, simply or as a result of any European directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-06-SDZ3-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will move to a decision on the proposal for the following decision: The National Assembly's mandate-making commission proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, pursuant to Article 23(1) of the Law on the Election of Members to the European Parliament, the following decision shall be adopted: "In the light of the report of the Republic of Slovenia's electoral commission on the outcome of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 13 June 2004 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia confirms the election of the following Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament: Dr. Michael Brejc, mag. Mojca Dr. Murko, Dr. Romana Jordan Cizelj, Jelko Kacin, Ludmila Novak, Borut Pahor and Aloise Peterle." Once again, all sincere congratulations on behalf of the National Assembly. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 66 Members and Members voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will bring the proposed decision to the attention of the President of the European Parliament. With regard to such a decision of the assembly and in accordance with the 9th Article of the Law on Members, I also take note of the following conclusion: "As from the date of the confirmation of the mandate of Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, the term of office of the Member of the national assembly shall expire on Dr Michael Brejc, Jelk Kacin, Borut Pahor and Aloyz Peterlet. At the same time, Mr Borut Pahor has ceased to serve as President of the National Assembly and Dr Michael Brejc as Vice-President of the National Assembly." On this basis, I will ask the Republic Election Commission to inform the State assembly on the basis of Article 17 of the Elections Act, which candidates from the list of candidates become Members or Members for the remainder of the term of office. Thank you all so much again. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much and good-bye.
