ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! We begin the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that he is detained and cannot attend today's meeting, Mr Ferri Horvat. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, and the candidate and candidates for the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome all the invitees here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. Please check the cards are filed. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers of the Government. He presented the list of candidates for ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 23 November 2004. On 1 December 2004, the Prime Minister informed the National Assembly that she had withdrawn from the list the proposal to appoint Mrs Darinka Mravljak as Minister without a licence for regional development and local self-government. The Prime Minister therefore proposes to appoint Dr. Andrei Bajuk as Minister of Finance, Mag. Mr Janez Bozič for Minister of Transport, academic specialist Andrej Bručan for Minister of Health, Mag. Mr Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavc, Minister for Defence, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Dragutin Matej, Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Dimitrij Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister for Culture, Dr. Lovr Šturm, Minister for Justice, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration, Mag. Andrej Bizjak, Minister of Economy, Dr. Juret Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Milan Zver, Minister of Education and Sport. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed High Council. We have before us the final act in the formation of the executive power after the October parliamentary elections. The procedure, in my view, was needlessly long. It took, as usual, two months before this high assembly could decide on the government's proposal. The team, which I propose, has received a positive opinion, after more detailed presentations on the work bodies, and in my opinion, it is capable of taking responsibility for good and fair governance with the country. The objectives that we will pursue have been presented in more detail in my performance before you voted on the Prime Minister, but allow me to take the view that, in the meantime, a coalition treaty has been signed, which has sharpened some of the objectives and is the substantive basis for the government's action, which you will now decide to short-circuit some fundamental guidelines today. The government will act for the welfare of Slovenia. It will therefore be committed to the principles of sustainable development, which puts human beings at the forefront and the protection of a healthy living environment. The government will co-form the conditions for accelerating economic growth achieved during the mandate by improving the tax and administrative environment, raising the quality of education, improving financial discipline, increasing and ensuring greater efficiency of investment in science and technology development, withdrawing the country from the economy and creating a favourable environment for foreign investment. The government will provide conditions for cultural growth and strengthen national and European identity. The government will create an environment for more efficient public spending and efficient use of funds from the European Union funds, for achieving the Maastricht criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union, for decentralisation of the country, with a focus on improving the situation of municipalities and promoting more coherent regional development. The government will strive for a stable system of pension and health care, to improve the conditions for the design and development of families and to increase fertility, for a safe, friendly and healthy living environment, for a better functioning of the country and for higher legal security, for an effective fight against clientism and corruption in the public sector and for a quality, effective and fair conduct with the country, in principle, that the State and all public sector institutions serve citizens and businesses, with the aim of creating prosperity and comprehensive quality of life. When planning budgets, the government will be based on those strategic objectives, with the framework of all public policies being established in a consistent manner, taking into account the nominal convergence criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union. This objective will also be subordinated to the implementation of all programme points under the Coalition Treaty, which have financial implications. Since this is one of the most difficult tasks of the government over the next two years, let me say a few more words about it. Slovenia has also decided to join the European Monetary Union or to take over the European Union's common currency. There's no other alternative. So the question is not yes or no, but only when. The previous government has decided that it is in Slovenia's interest to do so as soon as possible. According to an assessment jointly prepared by the Bank of Slovenia and the government so far at the end of 2003, entry into the European Monetary Union is supported by both political and macroeconomic reasons. We generally agree with this assessment. In order to enter the European Monetary Union, formal and informal conditions, so-called nominal and real convergence criteria, must be met, but they are strongly interlinked. Nominal convergence criteria or measurable conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union, according to the Maastricht criteria, are: First time. Low inflation, which does not exceed the average inflation in the three countries of the European Union with a minimum price increase of more than 1.5%. Another time. A balanced public deficit not exceeding 3% in gross domestic product; a public debt not exceeding 60% of gross domestic product; a low long-term interest rate not exceeding the average long-term interest rate of the three countries of the European monetary union with a minimum price growth rate of more than 2%. A stable course valued with two years of participation in the ERM 2 mechanism. If we look at the fulfilment of these criteria today, then we can see: for the first time, that Slovenia has not yet met the criteria of low inflation. At the end of this year, we will resign by a little less than 2% after the latest forecast. Exactly impossible to say because it depends on December's inflation. The state of public finances is expected to be appropriate according to official data, but according to other information, the movement of the budget deficit under the ESA95 methodology is very close to the 3% of GDP limit. The government's assessment so far is that the budget deficit will be around 2.1% of GDP at the end of the year. According to data sent to the EU by Slovenia, the state of public debt, which measures compliance with the Maastricht criteria, is around 30% and is thus below the Maastricht limit of 60%. Since the beginning of 2003 Slovenia has met the criteria of interest rate with tolar bonds with a fixed interest rate. Economic and social cohesion is a key non-formal criterion for entry into the European Monetary Union, but these criteria are not more quantifiable. It is so-called real convergence, both income and structural, or the process of long-term reaching productivity achieved in the most developed countries. In particular, income convergence refers to the gross domestic product per capita and to the price level. Structural convergence, however, covers the institutional framework in which the economy operates. In this regard, the quality of the state administration itself, in particular the efficiency of the state administration and the quality of the legal regime, is very important. According to a 2001 World Bank survey, Slovenia was slightly behind the EU average in most of these indicators and was partly comparable to Italy, Greece and Portugal. International comparisons, such as the well-known annual analysis of the AMD Institute and many others, each in their own way, unfortunately show that the relative situation of Slovenia has deteriorated over the last four years rather than progress. Creating a more entrepreneurship-friendly environment and a more efficient location of financial resources is a work of strategic importance for our future. In order to reduce inflation in the second half of 2005 and 2006, i.e. at a time that will be crucial for determining whether Slovenia fulfils the nominal convergence criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union, to maintain inflation, to maintain the adequacy of the public financial position and to strongly strengthen the ability of the economy, central banks and governments to absorb possible asymmetric shocks, it will be necessary to maintain fundamental macroeconomic balance, to ensure the coordinated functioning of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia in the implementation of fiscal and other policies within the competence of both institutions, to increase labour mobility and flexibility of wages in employment, to cooperate with the social partners in the further deindification, which, in any event, must be achieved, should not be too much of a problem, to depreciate the potential effects of the exempt tolar and foreign liquidity of Banka Slovenija instruments offered by the management of public debt, which the reduction of inflation, which is necessary in any way or so far as to achieve, to achieve a degree of capitalisation and to manage the capital costs of Slovenia's sales, and to reduce the potential for the leverage. Your Honor! In the last days and in this last process of establishing a new executive power, press conferences have also been organized by the government so far, at which representatives of the executive branch have stressed that they are leaving a good legacy to the new government. Well, part of it, of course. Slovenia has become a member of the European Union and NATO in the last term; in this way it has secured its future in the long term; we are close to the average of the European Union's development after the enlargement of the EU 25; we have solidly functioning institutions, with the exception of supervisory and part of the judiciary; we have a relatively similar economic structure as the countries of the European monetary union; we have about 70% of the purchasing power of the average European monetary union; we have a reputation for a fairly successful transition country capable of taking on its part in the international environment; Slovenia will therefore, in the coming years, also chair the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and also the European Union as the first of the new members. However, this generally fine picture is distorted by some of the facts that need to be pointed out openly by the state when it comes to the administration. The legacy that we are taking over includes also: an incomplete liberalisation of the economy and education, a deteriorating demographic picture, a decline in fertility, which is, in the long run, one of the key problems of this country, more than the unannounced science, in particular its technical part, budget spending, not adjusted to draw on European funds, a low added value due to incomplete reforms in financial services activities, where we are half behind the European monetary union countries, a large promising gap in this year's budget, a large drop in revenue showing the same percentage as in the budget of the Ljubljana municipality, a pre-consumed or reserved large part of the 2005 budget, already adopted the 2005 budget, which is based on the preconditions of the amended legislation, the reform of the government for pre-election reasons does not necessarily invest in the process, the non-state registers in the field of social transfers, which are also allowing for the implementation of the budget of the reformed economy, which is based on the reform of the reformed economy, the reformed economy, the reformed economy, the reformed economy, the reform of the reform of the reform of the reform of the reform of the sector due to the reform of the sector, the sector, the reform of the sector, the sector, the sector, the sector, the sector, the EU of the EU of the current of the sector, the EU of the EU system of the EU of the EU of the EU of the EU of the EU of the EU of the EU. Even as we have recently spoken with the candidates for the government, it has turned out that those in solid positions are somehow not interested in these positions, all of them would be the directors of the insurance company Triglav or Nova Ljubljanska banka or the New Bank of Maribor, or the parastatal funds or at least some working universities or pharmacies, because there are salaries up to three times higher and, of course, responsibility is up to ten times smaller. Moreover, there is still real chaos in the payment of high discharges and these matters are being disrupted by any normal relations in the public sector. All of this shows not only that we need to be more moderate in our own good heritage, but also in the serious problems that the new government will have to face, at the very beginning of the mandate, if we are to meet the nominal convergence criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union and become able to draw all available funds from the European Funds. It is clear, however, that the necessary restructuring of the budget in our situation will not be possible to achieve anything other than savings in public consumption and by deliberately spending the purchase on the sale of state ownership shares in order to reduce our indebtedness. Payment of domestic and foreign debt only last year burdened the budget for over 200 billion tolars. I would like to further address some of the key foreign policy challenges that the government will have to address in the coming mandate, some of them in practice tomorrow. What is the most important definition of Slovenian foreign policy? Certainly Slovenian national interest, what we went to NATO and the European Union for, then existing membership, which is now a fact, in the European Union and in NATO and relations with neighbouring and neighbouring countries. And what are the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy in the coming mandate? The first is certainly the application of Slovenia as a new member of the European Union, then the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe from the beginning of next year, the Presidency of the European Union in the period 2007-2008, in order to prepare for the possibility that the European Constitution will not be ratified in all Member States and that this will be significantly harder work than if the Constitution is adopted; then the economic and cultural promotion of Slovenia, regional integration, strengthening good relations with neighbouring countries and strengthening relations with the United States of America. First, Slovenia is awaiting the chairmanship of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. This is part of the responsibility, our responsibility, shared for the peace and stability of the regions and in the world. Here we will immediately face some of the tightenings we know, but we hope in the coming year also to regulate the situation and stabilise, to resolve or to participate in a significant proportion in solving the problems of the state community of Serbia and Montenegro, Kosovo and other tensions in South-Eastern Europe. There are also some other real possibilities in Ukraine for outbreaks of intra-State disputes in Eastern Europe and Zakavkaz. So this work will be extremely difficult. When I talk about knowledge of politics, I am always thinking about the part of the knowledge of politics that represents the promotion of the country from the outside. Slovenia needs this promotion, Slovenia must become an attractive destination for healthy foreign investment. We will encourage these and other objectives, the establishment of academic and research centres with international content and participation. We will try to ensure that Slovenia, Slovenian symbols, becomes registered in the world maps, timetables, travel brochures, weather maps and so on, which is more important than at first sight. The government will also encourage the publication of classic and electronic publications on Slovenia for abroad. As a member of the European Union, Slovenia has also assumed its responsibility to co-decision on many important issues that it has not previously had. By mid-December, for example, the European Summit of the 25th will decide on the enlargement of the European Union. In this regard, the question of starting negotiations with Turkey is particularly open. In this regard, there was very little public debate in Slovenia. It is also difficult to say what a public opinion is, given that I think that some serious debates have not actually been, because we have the principled views of Slovenia, of course, principled consensus, continued enlargement of the European Union, this brings greater stability, not only to our immediate neighbourhood, but also to Slovenia in general supports the policy of intercultural dialogue, Slovenia rejects cultural fighting and inter-civilisational disputes, Slovenia supports democratisation and the European perspective of Turkey, but in our opinion it is possible to start negotiations on entry into the European Union under certain conditions - many issues are open. Turkey, for example, has not yet recognised Cyprus, which is already a member of the European Union and it is impossible to imagine negotiations with someone who does not recognise all the existing members of the European Union; this is also a formal issue and is open. Turkey is far from meeting the political conditions for entry into the European Union when it comes to regulating relations between the military and civil spheres. The requirement that these criteria be applied immediately in a consistent manner poses an immediate threat to the victory there by forces other than pro-Europeans who do not advocate the separation of the church from the state under these conditions. There are also many concerns about respect for human rights in this country. In the existing Member States of the European Union, there are, not some, but several thousand, according to some data, several tens of thousands of asylum seekers for political reasons from this country, who are running for EU membership. So here is a dilemma that is extremely difficult before Europe, and it will certainly be necessary to participate in the search for an appropriate solution, which can only be compromise. It is also important whether or not this issue is more than the one previously raised in these public debates, what relations between Slovenia and the United States of America should be like. In our view, Slovenia must join countries and organisations that will improve relations between the two sides of the Atlantic in the coming years. In fact, it is possible to agree with French President Chirac, who said some ten days ago that the alliance between the European Union and the United States is strategic and long-term and that the good future of the planet depends largely on this alliance and good cooperation. Thus, Slovenia must not agree to deepen the division between the two sides of the Atlantic and at the same time be aware that Europe's equal role in this partnership depends largely on whether the Lisbon Strategy's objectives will be at least more achieved, as if Europe does not move faster in its technological and economic development, it will also be weaker and not stronger in foreign policy. We believe that the United States should also be motivated to invest more in Slovenia. Dear High Council! At the end of this introduction and the presentation of the new team and its programme, I would like to reiterate our awareness that, for a positive climate and lasting progress in society, the willingness of citizens to overcome old divisions is very important, and that the willingness of policy to follow this objective is very important. In the team I propose today, we are aware of this fact, so in addition to the team's efforts to do good and fair with the country, it will put everything that unites and unites us in Slovenia and advocates cooperation on the basis of its willingness to work for the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Janez Janša, for further explanation of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, candidates presented themselves to the home working bodies and responded to questions raised by committee members. It follows from the opinions of the home work bodies that the presentations of all candidates were appropriate. You have received the opinion of the committees. I give the floor to the representatives of the committees to give an additional opinion. Please, the opinion of the Health Committee will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister and distinguished colleagues! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and paragraph 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Andrej Bručan presented himself to the Health Committee on 29.11.2004 and answered the questions of its members. In his opening presentation, the candidate for a minister first expressed his assessment that the problem of the absence of adequate health policy had led to the destabilisation of the financial system in health. The current state of health in this area is considered by the candidate to be the result of an incorrect health management policy, a lack of vision, a lack of confidence in health care providers, inefficient and irrational spending of resources, an unregulated field of operation of chambers, obsolete equipment, undetermined responsibilities to the patient and a number of other activities for which he gave a somewhat comprehensive assessment in the analysis of the situation. The Minister's candidate further stressed that, for reasons of design, the saints of public institutions could not adequately resolve control over the management of institutions. His presentation concluded with the fact that the current state of health is not critical, and quite a few good movements were made, especially the reduction of waiting lines for certain operations, the investment funds have increased significantly, the system of substitution drugs has proved useful and the introduction of groups of comparable cases shows positive results. In the event of its administration, the Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to cooperate as best as possible with all actors involved in the healthcare system. After the opening presentation, all members of the committee asked a number of questions to the candidate minister. The questions concerned, in particular, the beginning of health reform, waiting periods, the granting of concessions to private persons, the issue of the scope of health insurance rights, the lack of doctors, the field of paediatric and gynaecology in the future, the problem of ageing, the necessary regulation of the legal basis for setting up long-term care centres, the problem of VAT and the financial deficit in health care, health policy and a number of other topics. All the questions raised were answered and further explained by the Minister's candidate in his power and knowledge. Following the completion of the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the Health Committee, by a majority of votes, adopted a decision which considered that the presentation of Andre Bručan, a candidate for Minister from the Ministry of Health, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Germich. The opinion of the Defence Committee will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u6	In the introductory reading, the candidate answered some of the questions satisfactorily, but not the other. The Committee adopted, by a majority of votes, that the presentation was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be presented by Mr Aloise Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, fellow Member and Members. Ms Marija Lukačič, who is proposed as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, presented herself at the first extraordinary meeting on 30.11. before the Committee on Agriculture. The presentation of the candidate took place in three parts, in the introduction to which she described her previous agricultural expertise, then gave an assessment of the situation in Slovenian agriculture and concluded with a presentation of the key points for the period 2005-2006 and presentation of the urgent tasks and other activities of the Ministry of Agriculture for the next term of office, namely in the period 2007-2013. Regarding the current situation in Slovenian agriculture, she said that we have already harmonised Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation, we are implementing all market lines comparable to the European Union, we have an accredited paying agency implementing all market order measures, but we do not have milk quotas and sugar quotas. In practice, we have not yet implemented most of the intervention measures on the market, as this has not yet been necessary. We have adopted a proposal to implement the reform of the market order, which stipulates that Slovenia will start implementing the so-called combined reform model at the beginning of 2007. Key highlights for the period 2005-2006: in Slovenia we will continue the standard direct payment schemes in 2005 with 90% and 100% in 2007. For this purpose, adequate resources should be provided in the budget for the difference between European Union funds and the level of payments. The transition from the current standard scheme to the combined regional payment will need to be precisely developed. For the years 2005 to 2006, the paying agency will need to be accredited, the network on the ground and the obligations and tasks of Slovenian farmers will need to be properly informed. The pilot introduction of milk quotas is likely to be completed in 2005 and the allocation of these quotas will be completed in 2006. Negotiations with Brussels on the market order for sugar will have to be completed. It will be most important to ensure the appropriate absorption capacity of Slovenia in order to ensure that all rural development funds will be fully and qualitatively spent in the negotiations. In addition to the reform of agricultural policy, it will be necessary to revise the area with limited economic factors, reform of the rural development measure, prepare for the implementation of the key directives, adopt a national rural development strategy by September 2005 and implement the rural development programme for the period 2007-2013. The Minister's candidate further gave a detailed overview of rural development policy reform as fundamental changes are envisaged in this area. The reform will be implemented by a regulation defining the measures of the second pillar of agricultural policy to be financed by the European Rural Development Fund. The new Regulation provides that rural development measures will be defined in three ways, namely improving the competitiveness of agriculture and the forestry sector, protecting the environment and effectively managing land, diversifying the rural economy and quality of life in rural areas. With regard to the urgent tasks and other activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition in the next mandate period, the future Minister has given a number of tasks. Let me mention just some; it highlighted the land policy measure. Among the most important measures of policy land, according to the candidate, is the improvement of the ownership and parcel structure of agricultural land, which can be effectively implemented by directing transport to agricultural land. It highlighted the economic security of farms against natural disasters. According to the candidate, the Systemic Law on Natural Disasters was adopted in 2003 and will seek to amend it. She highlighted the education of young farmers and foresters. The candidate will endeavour to make a certain amount of the budget available for the scholarship of young farmers. It further highlighted legal aid to farmers because it thinks that this legal aid is often inaccessible to farmers and is often misunderstood. After an extensive introductory presentation, the candidate answered the questions in more detail. And the committee concluded with 7:3 that the candidate was suitable for the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sok. The opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy will be presented by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u10	Mr President-in-Office, President-in-Office of the National Assembly, distinguished and respected colleagues and fellow Members and all those accompanying this meeting. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Justice were presented on 29.11.: candidate for Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, candidate for Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, and candidate for Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm. Mr Dragutin Mate, proposed as Minister of Home Affairs, presented in his opening presentation the main points of reference for his work on internal affairs in the period 2004-2008. In the area of police and other security tasks, the candidate highlighted the following tasks: developing a partnership with individuals and communities, in particular in terms of preventing dangerous phenomena before they arise. Restricting crime - in doing so, he stressed that to limit the worst forms of economic crime, it would be necessary to gradually strengthen the criminal police with skilled personnel. In the area of public order and general security of persons and property, the aim will be to ensure approximately equal levels of human security, including through the human resources redeployment of police officers, their additional training and the reduction of the differences in the burden of police officers. In the area of road safety, police will increase the number of preventive measures while effectively sanctioning the most serious offences that endanger the lives and safety of road users. By 2007, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of all the obligations of our country arising from the association negotiations, and it will be necessary to check the possibility of amending the already adopted police employment plan, as it would only be possible to reduce employment through agreement and agreement with the European Union. Particular attention will have to be paid to the education, training and training of police officers and criminals at all levels, as well as to research activities. In the area of legal and internal matters, the applicant pointed out that particular attention will have to be paid to the legislative work in the field of arms, explosives, homogenisation of regulations in the field of technical checks, registration of vehicles, regulation of the status of associations and other forms of association, as well as to the draft central register of the population already under way. In addition, the integration of public records and the establishment of a reception and information office at the Directorate for Administrative and Home Affairs, where information on all administrative procedures and services in this area will be made available to customers throughout business time. In the area of migration and naturalisation, the main programme objectives are to improve the efficiency of management and control of migration flows, to reduce the number of abuses of asylum procedures and to value them; to address the issue of so-called deleted issues by adopting a constitutional law, with two-thirds support in Parliament; to harmonise the law on foreigners with the legal order of the European Union. He stressed that he would strive to establish a highly professional and professional institution that would target people, knowing that it was one of the more demanding and sensitive sectors, which is constantly in the eyes of the public, politics and the media. The candidate for the Minister of Justice replied to the questions raised, giving in particular the following points, which were also expressed in public. With regard to the so-called 'Sarajevo affair', he ensured that he did not violate international documents and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in carrying out his duties. In dealing with the issue of so-called deleted, it will in no way act on its own discretion, but will consider all possibilities for the issue to be settled in constitutional law in a manner acceptable to the majority of Parliament, with an emphasis on the individual treatment of persons who have been wronged. With regard to the Road Safety Act, he said that he felt that he had brought some very good solutions, but after his more detailed examination and consultation with experts, he would think about his improvements and would certainly seek to enforce the Act with 1.1.2005. Following the completion of the presentation of Mr Dragutin Matei's candidate, the Committee adopted by a majority of votes that the presentation of his views and views was appropriate. Mr Gregor Virant, proposed for the Minister of Public Administration, presented himself to the Committee below. The opening presentation began with a personal presentation and took note of his previous career achievements, views and motives. He also presented his programme in the field of government, public administration and public sector wage systems. In doing so, he stressed that its implementation also depended heavily on the Prime Minister and the cooperation of other ministries. He stressed that the aim of the establishment of the Ministry of Public Administration is to link, in particular, what relates to the same content or to the common objective, which is linked to greater and public political responsibility. He highlighted the following objectives in particular. Public administration orientation towards users or public administration as a service for citizens and businesses. In addition, he stressed that the work already started in this area will continue in order to provide as much quality information as possible on all the administrative services that citizens and businesses face. Further removal of administrative barriers, this is a project that absolutely affects all departments, so the Ministry of Public Administration will be successful in this direction only if it establishes a good network and partnership with other ministries; then the fight against bureaucracy and bureaucratic arrogance, stressing the need to promote flexibility and a partnership with the party, which cannot be achieved only through regulations, but only through a gradual change of culture and mentality or with appropriate human resources policy. Then the openness and transparency of public administration. Work should continue and the law of practice should be implemented consistently, and a systematic review should be carried out on the extent to which it is being carried out in that segment which requires active action - thus referring to the law on access to information of a public nature. With regard to the eGovernment, he pointed out that it was already necessary to provide more and more important services electronically for all those wishing to use this medium in the first half of the mandate. And the candidate said he was going to defend freedom of choice. He further committed himself to reducing the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration and reserved the right to exempt staff needs for the Presidency of the European Union from the strategy minus one per cent. Savings public administration, in particular in the field of logistics, the acquisition of common public procurement, the professionalisation of public administration, the further introduction of quality and business excellence in public administration, and the establishment of a performance measurement model. As one of the more difficult areas in public administration, which will need to be carefully reviewed, he highlighted the area of public sector wages. Although the law on the public sector wage system had been adopted in the last term, it did not come to life in practice, as it lacks a key document, it is a collective agreement. Upon conclusion, the candidate also provided a supervisory overview of the planned organisation of the new Ministry of Public Administration and answered a number of questions raised. At the end of the presentation, the Committee also adopted, in its vote on the appropriateness of the opinions and views of the candidate, Dr Gregor Virant, that it was appropriate. In his presentation and the justice programme, Dr. Lovno Šturm, proposed as Minister of Justice, said that he would rely on the principles of the rule of law, proportionality, the protection of trust in legal clarity and regulation, the division of power, equality, the right to a trial without undue delay, the right to a remedy. Special attention will also be paid to the procedural catheters, where the procedural guarantees of the defendants need to be ensured on the one hand, and on the other hand an effective trial. Regarding the judicial backlogs, he said that the preparation of the programme would be coordinated by the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Presidents of the Courts, and in his view it would be necessary to amend the following procedures: in the criminal procedure, to focus on the relationship between the Prosecutor and the police; in a fair process, to ensure an effective trial, in particular by reducing the number of orders that were to be well prepared, focused and followed at the shortest possible intervals; to ensure the rationalisation of the enforcement procedure, by improving the position of the creditor in relation to the debtor. As a very important task, he highlighted the informationisation of the courts and the provision of technical equipment for the implementation of evidence and the security and equipment of the courts. The Ministry will, within the limits of the possibilities offered by the division of power and in cooperation with the judiciary, seek to introduce the management principles into the judicial branch of the judiciary, so that the Presidents of the courts are primarily managers, and judges should, in their process of their work, take decisions primarily. Experts would also relieve the judge of his routine work and assist him in handling less demanding judicial cases. According to the applicant, it is necessary to open competition in the field of notariat and to encourage legal offices to connect and unite. However, the European Union's tasks relate mainly to judicial cooperation. The proposed candidate for a minister pointed out that he did not currently see the reason why the law on offences would not have been enforced with the start of a future position, that the income of judges for offences in the courts could also mean the human rights court to allow selective abolition for those offences, which constituted a relatively low level of illegality, and that the possibility for Slovenian prosecutors before the European Court of Human Rights to be awarded adequate compensation for compensation within Slovenia, which would otherwise have to be duly divided into Article 26 of the Constitution; that in practice, the institution of "unbundling illegalis" should be brought to life as soon as possible, meaning that the judge would not have used a sub-law act which he considered to be contrary to the Constitution or the law. It will be necessary to amend the law on criminal proceedings in the direction of the already mentioned discharge of judges and courts. According to the applicant, confidence in the work of the courts is also undermined by individual inconclusive judgments, which is why he suggested that our legal doctrine in professional literature should also begin with a critical assessment of judicial decisions, which is common practice abroad. Following the completion of the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the Internal Policy Committee also adopted, by a majority of votes, the conclusion that the presentation of Dr. Lovr Šturm, the candidate for the Minister of Justice, from the Ministry of Justice's work area, was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The opinion of the Committee on Environment and Space will be presented by Mr Rudi Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, respectable council! Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, sent the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a list of candidates for ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Janez Podobnik, proposed as Minister of Environment and Space, presented himself to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space and answered the questions of its members. In its opening presentation to the members of the Committee, the proposed candidate presented a vision and framework programme for the work of the Ministry of Environment and Space, with particular emphasis on the strategic direction of the Ministry and operational issues to which special care will be given. The Ministry's main objective is to ensure a safe, friendly and healthy living environment within the framework of sustainable spatial development. The basic documents of the Ministry's field of operation are adopted and their completion by means of sub-legislative acts and implementation into daily practice will be necessary, some of which will also need to be complemented and amended if necessary. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, takes over the law of the European Union and the United Nations Convention. In particular, it is worth mentioning the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol on Biological Diversity and the fight against desertification. In Slovenia's accession to the European Union, Slovenia has made provision for a delay in the resolution of waste water, packaging and industrial pollution. However, special attention will be given to addressing these issues. The motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme highlights four areas: climate change, nature and biodiversity, quality of life and waste and industrial pollution. In the area of municipal waste management, particular concern will be given to the regional resolution of the collection of these wastes, the inclusion of foreign and domestic private capital and the corresponding amendment of legislation governing public economic services and the pricing of municipal services. In the field of water management, it will be a priority to ensure healthy drinking water and, in this regard, to protect water potentials in terms of compliance with the nitrate directive. Other areas were also presented, which was a good basis for discussion by the members of the Committee. The members of the Committee asked the Minister-designate a number of questions relating to the following areas: taking into account and implementing the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol and the EU directives, addressing the disposal of low and medium-radioactive waste, the problem of municipal waste incineration, the provision of municipal waste disposals after 2008, the rehabilitation of old waste landfills and their financing, the building of sufficient cleaning facilities and the inclusion of private capital, the possibility of drinking water from surface waters, the dynamics of preparing and adopting local community spatial acts as a basis for ensuring the development of settlements, public participation and taking into account the constraints of Natura 2000; and the preparation of criteria for the allocation of resources for addressing the consequences of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, storms, hailstorms and the like. The fact is that with the rehabilitation of the Soča we had to adopt a new law, while there were no criteria to finance the recovery of the consequences of the catastrophic storm with hailstorms in the Slovenian Horses. The questions related to the consolidation of the registers of buildings and land registers, the issue of Roma and their integration into the regulated housing environment. The Minister's candidate responded to other questions raised and further explained the views and views on specific topics in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Following the completion of the presentation of Mr Janez Podobnik's candidate, the Committee on the Environment and Space adopted by a majority of votes that the presentation of the views and views of Mr Janez Podobnik, the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space, from the Ministry of Environment and Space, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! A reputable candidate for Minister and Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The candidate Dr Dimitrij Rupel presented himself to the Committee on Foreign Policy and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. The candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that cooperation with the National Assembly, which guides government policy and brings dismay and broad legitimacy, is essential for a successful foreign policy. Foreign policy expresses and represents a national interest, not only in government, so it is important to maintain contact with Members, the professional public and civil society. The Minister's candidate stressed that Slovenia is today a member of the most important international ties, so it will have to take care of other countries within its capacity and competence. As a member of the EU and NATO, it must also assume its share of responsibility for relations between the EU and the United States of America for the Middle East peace process, Afghanistan, Africa, the Balkans, Iran and so on. A modern and forward-looking foreign policy gives him the advantage of political stability over territorial issues. With regard to the OSCE Presidency, which provides a framework for American-European and Western-Eastern relations, whose content focuses on military, political and economic issues, human rights, democracy, democratic elections and the media, Dr Rupel stressed that Slovenia will act as a factor of convergence of views, will strive to reach a consensus that is the only way to take a decision in the OSCE, and will vigorously implement such a policy. Slovenia will take over the presidency at a time when the OSCE is in a rather unenviable position. With regard to Slovenia's membership in the European Union, the candidate said that this means the realization of the first Slovenian national political requirement, the requirement of a united Slovenia. For the first time in recent history, Slovenian people live with the exception of parts in Croatia and emigration within the borders of a single political and economic entity in the European Union. He stressed that intensive discussions are taking place in the European Union on the new financial perspective 2007-2013. The situation of Slovenia is sensitive because, given that it will exceed 75% of the average gross domestic product per capita, it can be classified as a group of richer recipients of structural policy funds. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it is desirable that the net beneficiary of EU funds remain, while ensuring that Slovenia is successfully involved in achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. During the coming period, there will be a decision in the EU on the implementation of the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe and further enlargement of the EU. Regarding the start of negotiations with Turkey, Dr Rupel said that the coalition supports the European Commission's position on this issue. Regarding relations between Slovenia and the United States of America, Dr. Rupel said he would strive to improve them. It will advocate a constructive transatlantic dialogue and a deepening of the partnership between the United States of America and the European Union, where cooperation in all areas needs to be strengthened, a frank debate on possible differences, views, interests and commitments agreed upon. Regarding Slovenian-Croatian relations, he said that at some points they are complex but not bad. It is necessary to create a relaxed mood, avoid incidents and disperse relationships. With regard to open border issues, he stressed that the coalition partners take into account the situation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on 25 June 1991, which means that by the time of the final agreement in principle they take into account the villages on the left bank of Dragonje as Slovenian territory to take account of the integrity of the Piran Bay and the preservation of the Slovenian territorial waters to the extent that the Slovenian police and other Slovenian authorities supervised on 25 June 1991. The 2003 Drnovšek-Račan agreement is barely acceptable for Slovenia. It was the minimum minimum. The following questions were raised by Members who mainly touched on Slovenian-Croatian relations, on Slovenia's attitude towards the war in Iraq and on relations with the United States of America. The Minister's candidate has answered all the questions fully. Finally, the Committee adopted the conclusion that the presentation of the views and views of the candidate for Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupl from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work area was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. The opinion of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister, colleague and colleague! On 30 November, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport presented two candidates – Dr Simoniti, Minister of Culture, and Dr Milan Zver, Minister of Education and Sport. In his opening presentation, Dr Simoniti, a candidate for the Minister of Culture, presented to the members of the Committee a vision of the area to be led as minister. In his opinion, the Slovenian State should ensure a dynamic balance between maintaining heritage in all areas and modern, innovative creativity. The Ministry of Culture, as an executive of cultural policy, must ensure the democratisation of culture and allow cultural supply to be made available to everyone everywhere in Slovenia. In his presentation, he also touched on the national cultural programme and committed himself to complement the resolution on the national cultural programme with the content contained in the programme prepared by former Minister Rudi Sheligo with some new initiatives and to prepare a quality document of modern Slovenian cultural policy on this basis. He stressed that it was the Ministry's task to support the best, and therefore it must apply clear, professional criteria that could be presented at any time by the expert commissions to the general public in public debates and also verify their credibility. This means that the Ministry must act publicly, clearly and transparently all the time. Since the Slovenian language preserves all our past, our awareness of ourselves and the world, the language most reflects our individuality and the state must therefore protect the position of Slovenian, which is enshrined in the Constitution, while at the same time promoting language development. He further touched on the position of the Slovenian book, which is the bearer of knowledge, information, intelligence and imagination, and committed himself to gradually reducing the tax on the book. He stressed the importance of Slovenian publishing and the importance of a well-developed and information network of general libraries. A particular problem, however, is the problem of the National University Library in Ljubljana, because delaying construction after this institution is becoming a national disgrace. According to its vitality and its declaration of power, Slovenian culture is completely equivalent to other national cultures and can contribute a valuable share of the wealth of European cultures. With our entry into the European Union, it is high time for Slovenia to be more boldly and recognizably involved in European cultural developments and to become more recognizable in Europe and the world in its culture. He therefore committed himself to setting up a government agency, which, in cooperation with the departments and cultural centres abroad, would plan and design individual actions that would be ongoing throughout the year. He also advocated the establishment of a council or committee composed of representatives of central cultural institutions, which would also include important Slovenian cultural personalities, which would assess the proposed solutions to Slovenian promotion abroad. This would also greatly help to establish or establish a permanent exhibition on Slovenian history at the National Museum in Ljubljana. This exhibition would show not only the Slovenes, but also the foreigners a narrow view of Slovenian history from the beginning to the present day. He also committed himself to including the creativity of Slovenian minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary in cultural creativity, so it would be more necessary to link these minorities to their homeland. And this movement must not only be formal, new ideas and initiatives are needed on how to connect culture in the home country and in the place and ensure intertwining between creators and programs. It also touched on the problem of pluralisation of information, which is a prerequisite for the establishment of democracy and guarantees for the maintenance of a democratic society. In this part, he also committed himself to establishing a media fund, as it is necessary to allow this area to be demonopolised to offer other options. Following the completion of the introductory presentation, a number of questions were raised to the candidate, which were received by the Members in the opposite and inexhaustible answers. By a majority of votes, the Committee decided that the presentation of Dr Simoniti's candidate was appropriate. The Committee also held a presentation of the candidate for Minister of Education, Dr Milan Zver. In its opening presentation to the members and members of the Committee, the proposed candidate presented his views on the area to be led as Minister. He stressed that he had met and dealt with political, historical, sociological topics, particularly in the field of democracy and human rights and freedoms, and that he would make effective use of this experience in managing the Ministry of Education and Sport. He is convinced that the education and education system is one of the basic social subsystems that shapes man and his personality and thus affects society as a whole. In its work on radical changes in this area, it does not plan, as it advocates the policy of small steps that will follow the common European policy, of course taking into account Slovenian specificities, and will continue with the reforms that have been started. In particular, he touched on or defined the following objectives: increasing the autonomy of schools and teachers, reducing the burden and fatigue of pupils, improving the relationship between students and teachers, parents and school and the wider environment, and committed himself to promoting the autonomy of pupils and improving their self-image, for equality, regardless of nationality, race, gender, culture and other circumstances, to promoting lifelong learning. He further presented an assessment of the situation in specific areas. In the area of kindergartens, it found that the relatively large involvement of children in kindergartens is already over 60%, but in this area there are mainly problems or demographic problems and declines in births, and of course the regulatory area of the country, which is particularly affected by local communities. In the area of primary education, there has been a radical change from an eight-year-old to a nine-year-old. He vowed to change the relationship between students and teachers. It will take an even more comprehensive approach to the problem of solving violence in school. It will also try to reshape the external student knowledge verification system with more appropriate methods. In the area of secondary and vocational education, too, something needs to be changed radically, as vocational education is particularly declining and will therefore seek to increase it, and will encourage renewed interest in the deficit professions. It will also strive to improve the situation in the field of discipline and violence and in the field of student overburden. He will support adult education because he is in the spirit of lifelong learning. It is aware that every citizen needs this education. It also considers higher education to be an important part of secondary education, especially of great importance to the economy. The area of sport also affects the individual as well as the cross-cutting area [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the countries, therefore, will promote successful projects. [[...]] He also answered a number of questions, and he answered them in a comprehensive manner. Finally, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, that the presentation of Dr. Beast for the Minister of Education and Sport was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Jozet Tank. The opinion of the Economic Committee will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, for the words and attention you are giving to speakers. But I will devote more than one paragraph to candidates for ministers, as it seems to me, according to political culture. That's what I think. Mr Andrej Vizjak presented himself on the Committee on the Economy, where, with his replies, he wished for the majority of confidence in his views and with the guidance he presented. That was then the conclusion of this Committee. Since this ministry had been redesigned, it had, of course, to represent in three different areas, so it tried to focus its views on both electronic communications and on energy and the classical area of the economy, and it seems important to me that it presented itself personally, the way of work that it intended to introduce, and in this way it rounded up its presentation. The levels he represented were different. Let me mention at least two. One level was presented by the coalition treaty, which was also partly a proposal for an objection, but it seems right for at least most of us in this committee that what is written as a draft government programme is also highlighted. And the second level was the level of personal emphasis, the level that talks about the way he intends to work and communication with others, which is, of course, necessary because of the complexity of the area he will lead. He put it all together into the international involvement of Slovenia, into what we expect in the coming years and tried to ensure that he would do everything necessary to achieve these goals that we set ourselves. It seems important to me that he mentioned certain dimensions in the way he works, which may not be explicitly stated in the opinion and in the coalition contract, but it is worth re-emphasizing. One such feature is that he did not advocate any kind of radicalism, as it was common to think about the speed of privatisation, the speed of deregulation, the speed of changing the labour market and so on. This is one of his commitments, which I believe he will also try to implement, that is to say, the commitment that there will be no shocks that would disturb needlessly without a thorough analytical basis and without assessing the consequences of the measures to be taken. Secondly, apart from this stage, an important feature seems to me to be a feature that has always been at the forefront. This social sensitivity, probably in view of the fact that the candidate has also performed important functions for some time in this area, is understandable. For us, for the Slovenians, for those who expect everything to change in the coming years, in which we set ourselves very ambitious targets, it is that we have ensured that social, health and other security measures that will be taken in the field of the economy will not be reduced. I was glad that he also mentioned that he was listening to specifics. Some of us meet these specifics every day. And, for example, in the field of energy, it is certainly not possible to measure the consumer who lights the light this afternoon and the one who consumes large amounts of energy when another industry is working, even if they do not know where to use this electricity. The way in which he referred to it was, of course, overwhelmed by the knowledge that he himself could not master the expertise of all the areas he would have to cover, so we hope that both with his staff proposals and with his other work he would feel teamwork, we hope that he will feel such teamwork as he has promised within the government, and we hope that the framework, as he has presented, will be for his and other functioning of the coalition treaty. Probably, in all the other things presented, this also helped to get the Minister's candidate to seek the majority support. We are confident that if the work is what it represents, the effects will not only be a set of factors, but they will be synergistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. The opinion of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development will be presented by Mr Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u20	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament and the Prime Minister! Good-bye, everybody! Mr Jure Zupan, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, presented himself to the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development on 29.11.2004. After a brief personal presentation and presentation of his professional and professional path to date, which shows that he was closely associated with the field of higher education and science during his professional career, the candidate for a minister presented to the members of the committee his vision of the area he was supposed to lead as minister. He explained the reasons for the future Government of the Republic of Slovenia to divide the current Ministry of Education, Science and Sport into two ministries which should be responsible for these areas. It supported the priorities of the National Higher Education Programme, which was adopted by the National Assembly in 2002. In the future, the quality assurance system of universities and higher education institutions should be improved. Due to a strong increase in the number of students, without a significant increase in the number of professors, as well as the technical and professional modernisation of universities, he believes that funding for higher education activities should be increased by 5% annually. In his presentation, Dr Jure Zupan explained here his views on adapting the Bologna Declaration and drew attention to the main dilemmas and problems arising from its realization with us and also pointed out some solutions that would still need to be discussed and coordinated accordingly. He also focused on the transfer of knowledge from universities and institutes to industry and the economy and vice versa, which he felt was far from satisfactory if the country wanted to compete successfully with foreign competition. In the field of science, it will be necessary to make better use of the European funds for research and development projects in the future, drawing as many top European experts as possible. Slovenia must promote the integration of the research potentials of the ten new countries that have joined the European Union in order to play a leading role in such a project. The Slovenian Commissioner for Science, who is on the European Commission, Dr. Janez Potočnik, can also make an important contribution to such integration. He also presented some of the tasks to be undertaken by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology instead of the current Ministry of Information Society. Among the most important tasks of the new ministry was coordination between the government, the national assembly, the ministries of interest and the European Parliament. During the three-hour presentation, the members of the committee asked a number of questions to the Minister's candidate, in particular regarding the implementation of the Bologna Declaration and the Lisbon Strategy, the envisaged increase in resources for higher education and science, the improvement of student and student living, material and study conditions, the increase in enrolment in the natural direction of study, the increased presence of universities and institutes in enterprises, the way in which funds are distributed within universities and in this regard the business autonomy of universities, the reduction of the imbalance between students and professors in relation to the increased enrolment of students, the establishment of new universities, the establishment of priority issues and the relationship between individual universities and the setting up of their funding and the further development of the Arnes information system, to which the Minister's candidate, of course, was responsible. In the light of his replies, after a presentation by the Committee with 8 votes in favour and 2 against, the conclusion was that the views of Dr. Jureta Zupan, the candidate for Minister of Labour of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, were appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, Ms Eva Irgle will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u22	Dear Prime Minister, Prime Minister, candidate for Minister and candidate for Ministers, Members and Members! Given that I am a novelty in the National Assembly, I must say that I have followed the hearings of the candidates for ministers with so much interest. But today, on behalf of the Group of Members, I will not talk about what an individual candidate looked like and what an impression he made of me, but about just another matter; for they will have to show their qualities and abilities with the work and actions that lie ahead. I'd like to say the following. What seems to me to be one of the more important or reliable indicators of having a good government is the ethical code signed by all candidates for ministers. We should have seen this act before, and we didn't. Why, I'm not going to go into this, that's probably what those who have so far been in power know. However, I am sure that this action will also ultimately give us a fairer, more solidarity, more just and not least a more concerned government, which will work for the well-being of all citizens of Slovenia and not just some. The ethical code, which, inter alia, emphasises that ministers will act in accordance with the fundamental values of respect for human life and dignity, freedom, integrity, justice, solidarity and patriotism, I can say that it also means a step forward in the understanding of politics in Slovenia, because it seems to us that politics is primarily concerned with those who are either a little strange or have some bad intentions. This is mainly because, in one of the interviews, when I was asked what I thought about whether politics was really a dirty business, I first thought about this issue, and then said that politics is first and foremost a shopping of values, unfortunately, regardless of which political option you belong to. That is why I think this code of ethics is so much smarter and more responsible than the government's move to assume that we will now be able to see politics with different eyes, and above all have more confidence in those who run this country. When I made my own decision about politics, I realized that money and power were not values. Of course, values are easier to take into account if you are aware of them and are committed to them. Therefore, our Group of Members will be very pleased to support a government that is aware of the responsibility of its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u23	Thank you, Miss Evie Irgle. Mr. Magg has the word. Anton Rop, who will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u24	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, Mr Prime Minister, candidate and candidates for ministers! A new Slovenian government will be elected today. In your hands you take responsibility for the management of the Slovenian state and the development of Slovenian society. You are taking over the Member State of the European Union, which is considered to be the most successful among the new Member States. You will lead a country which, as the first among the new members, will be honoured to preside over the Union. Slovenia has evolved into a democratic, social state based on the market economy and the rule of law in the past period. In today's current mandate, we have achieved some historic goals for Slovenia and Slovenia and all Slovenian citizens. We have become a member of the European Union and NATO. This was done without great imbalances and shocks, without new historical conflicts. We also agree with you on balanced sustainable development, economic, social and environmental. I agree with the Prime Minister that we also have problems in Slovenia that we have to deal with. I wish the new government much success in dealing with them. It is very important for the start of the new government to be accompanied by relatively high, balanced economic growth. This year, economic growth will be around 4% and will be one of the higher in the European Union. And a low unemployment rate, which is also one of the lowest in the European Union. Inflation is relatively low and falling. High investment activity is increasing. And relatively balanced public finances. In 2000, when we took over this government, the government deficit was 3.4% of gross domestic product. Today it is about 2%, as has already been said. This is relatively smaller, it's smaller, but it's still not low enough. And it's important that the government is aware of that. The new government, therefore, has a good starting point in our sincere belief. It is up to you now to try to achieve development improvements to ensure the progress of Slovenia to ensure that the welfare of all citizens and citizens is raised. For the sake of Slovenia, I hope you will be successful in this. I think it's going to be the hardest choice between priorities. The real fact is that it is not possible to achieve all the goals and goals at the same time, and let them be so well thought out and well spoken. A fundamental document, which is the legal and programme basis for the formation of a new government, the coalition treaty on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately does not provide us with such assurances. The Treaty is programmed to be inconsistent and virtually unfulfilled. The individual programming structures are contrary to certain fundamental principles and objectives of the Treaty. That is why it is difficult to talk about the priorities of the new government, but rather about the list of wishes of coalition partners. The fact is that the contract does not contain an assessment of the public financial consequences, the implementation of the measures identified therein. It is therefore simply not possible to assess which measures and objectives of the Treaty can be implemented at all, in particular because it points out at the same time, and this has also been highlighted today, the subordination of all objectives and measures having financial implications to the criteria of entry into the European Union. When talking about measures with financial implications, the Treaty practically does not contain an area for which it would not provide for a substantial, I stress, a substantial increase in expenditure and public financial burdens. At the same time, to a very limited extent, it foresees an increase in resources. So what's going on? The general objectives, the basic measures, what has been said today, or individual actions in specific areas? They are at odds with each other. They are at odds with each other. Our assessment is that we will further explain that Slovenian taxpayers should provide an additional amount of between 106 and 370 additional billion Slovenian tolls per year for the implementation of this contract, depending on the size of the increase in individual expenditure. This means that it will be very difficult to achieve what has today been said to be the goal, and this is the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. Of course, the failure to meet the Maastricht criteria means that it is impossible to achieve the fundamental objective that has been discussed today. This is, of course, taking over the euro in Slovenia. It is quite possible that, if all the measures envisaged under the Treaty were to be implemented, I hope that this will not happen, that the takeover of the euro in Slovenia should be postponed for many years, so that the annual debt or tax burden would have to be increased for this amount, in order to reduce competitiveness, reduce investment and thus develop Slovenia. This raises questions. How can public spending be reduced if it is projected to increase by more than 500 billion over the next four years? It's not clear. How can work be reduced? How can you help textile companies who are in difficulty, objectively, this has been pointed out today if there is no workload and if public consumption increases by more than 500 billion Slovenian tolars. How will entrepreneurship be stimulated and competitiveness increased if public spending increases? And how inflation will be reduced and how taxes will be reduced in other areas, as envisaged in the Treaty. Above all, the fundamental question is who will pay for all of this. These generations, future generations: who? In this context, it is likely that it is better, more realistic and even better in terms of the development of Slovenia, that the coalition contract would not be implemented in all its works. I hope that the new government will be able to recognise that the programme cannot be implemented without serious consequences for the balanced development of Slovenia, so that in the next 100 days you can prepare a more realistic programme that will strike a balance between goals, priorities and public financial consequences. Proof that this can be done in a constructive spirit, we already have. And it's only right to tell the citizens. When we, as the opposition, drew attention to the exceptional financial consequences contained in the amendments to pension legislation, the new coalition partly took these warnings into account and postponed the treatment. I think that's good. In doing so, let me stress that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not oppose higher pensions, we support higher pensions. However, we believe that we can only increase them in terms of real opportunities, not at the expense of younger generations, at the expense of additional debt, at the expense of the new pension reform or at the expense of the deterioration of the position of employees. There is absolutely no reason why Slovenia would be the only European country to carry out the pension anti-reform. This has not happened in Europe. In recent years pension reforms due to population ageing have been adopted everywhere in Europe: Italy, France, Germany, Hungary. Last year we monitored how difficult it was to implement the pension reform in Austria, so we hope that in Slovenia we will not have to take a step back and weaken the stability of the pension and public finances, which the Prime Minister specifically pointed out when he said that the coalition is committed to the stability of the pension and public finances. Your Honor! Slovenia wants to be among the best in the European Union, so it is essential that we connect with the European Union even more effectively and, on the other hand, strengthen and improve internally. This is the best way to increase the common well-being and quality of life of every human being. We intend to participate in this as a constructive opposition to our best interests. So what are the key priorities in which governments and positions can count, not only on our understanding, but also on their full support? In the economic field, from what I have said, this is undoubtedly an effective takeover of the euro. We fully agree and agree with the words that, in fact, there is no alternative to Slovenia. We have to take over the euro. So you can count on our support for all those efforts, especially the new Minister of Finance, which will lead us to meet all those criteria that have been discussed in the area of deficit, in the area of public debt, in the area of interest rates, in the area of prices. In all these areas, of course, you will receive our full support. The high favour of people in Slovenia shows that Slovenians have very good and quickly understood what the euro is for us; macro economic frameworks for the full application of knowledge, competitiveness, entrepreneurship and thus long-term economic growth and employment. The key task in the area of budgetary policy in the next mandate, which we will support, is to align the programmes of the Slovenian budget with the structure and priority programmes agreed under the new financial perspective. One of the most important, one of the key tasks, the difficult tasks ahead of the new government. Only an effective adjustment to our budget can ensure that we make full use of our membership in the European Union. The task, as I said, is extremely difficult. The latest calculations show that in 2007, only in 2007 will we have to restructure 247 billion Slovenian tolls of the budget or 4% of gross domestic product. This means that for so long we will have to cut some expenses, not increase. To reduce some expenditure in order to ensure co-financing of European programmes. Only this will ensure co-financing and, of course, the inflow of European funds, a positive net financial position and, consequently, what we all want together. This is, of course, the fulfilment of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the positive impact of the European budget, European funds on economic growth and employment in Slovenia. Let the fact that Slovenia has the European Commissioner for Development and Science be a symbolic commitment at home as well. It is among all the priorities in your mandate, and we will support this, and particular attention must be paid to investing in knowledge, research and development. The rise in public and private expenditure, greater efficiency and economic connectivity are fundamental tasks in this area. The new government should know that whenever it advocates an effective legal state and people-friendly public administration and the inviolability of human rights, it can count on our full support. More. We'll be careful not to let anyone else get involved in this. In recent years, our government has proposed a number of constitutional changes in the area of regionalisation, the establishment or formation of a government, the implementation of referendums, including the electoral system. Perhaps, perhaps, this is a question for you, perhaps the time has come for the position and opposition to reconsider and together form some positions to change the constitution. We're open to this discussion. We are convinced that this would be good and would contribute to greater efficiency in the functioning of our democratic political system, the decentralisation of the country, and would also contribute to faster and more equitable regional development. Undoubtedly one of the important areas in which we can participate. Your Honor! The fundamental reservation of the LDS Club is therefore the fact that two fundamental imbalances, inconsistentness and inadequacy remain between the programme objectives of the new government's coalition contract and the resources to achieve them. However, it is also a fact that this is our assessment that the staffing composition of the proposed new government is not the best since it is clear that it has prevailed over the professional competence of the candidates in the composition of the criteria of political belonging. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote against the proposed ministerial assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor to speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u26	Mr. President of the National Assembly! Mr Prime Minister, candidates for Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is at a turning point. After successfully entering NATO and the EU and thus meeting the two main objectives of the new independent Slovenian country, it must now gather knowledge and courage for a new development momentum, for a steep and difficult path to the circle of the most developed EU countries. Our goal is to improve the lives of people in Slovenia, so Slovenia's fundamental development goal over the coming years is to achieve the average level of economic development and the most developed EU Member States. This will allow us to maintain and improve the level of social security achieved, accelerate the development of all regions and preserve the environment. The result will be greater quality of life and comprehensive human development. These objectives will be achieved by promoting greater competitiveness and adaptability and innovation and maintaining the solidarity of the whole society. It is essential for the United List of Social Democrats to achieve a new development momentum through the consent of the social partners, taking into account the European social model, which represents a dynamic balance between economic, employment and social policy. The United List of Social Democrats emphasises that in the long term it is only possible to design successful economic development only if too many social differences do not endanger social balance and reduce people's confidence in democratic institutions. Our aim is to create a society of opportunities for all and by the end of 2010 at the latest to achieve a society of full employment and strong, in the world of open cultural identity of Slovenia. These are the fundamental objectives for which the United List of Social Democrats is based on its social democratic policy. Through these objectives, we also assess the government's programme and will assess its concrete action later. Mr. Prime Minister, candidate and candidate for ministers! In preparation for the decision on the appointment of ministers, we have assessed the work of the parties of the government coalition, their pre-election programmes and performances, the speech of Prime Minister Janez Janša at the meeting on 9 November this year, the human resources criteria for proposing ministers, the coalition contract, CVs and the work of the proposed candidates for ministers, as far as was known and accessible to the public, and in particular their presentations in the home work bodies. In this regard, let me stress that the presentations in many working bodies were organised in such a way that time was lacking for concrete consideration and that concrete treatment was not desirable many times. A formal approach was preferable. Most of today's work reports, too, I don't think they're right. It only tells about what the ministers have said, but not what the reactions of the members and members of the opposition have been, which have not been consistent. We've never known such practices before. For all of this, the overall assessment of materials and interviews is that it does not allow a positive opinion on the prepared coalition agreement and the Government's substantive objectives, both in terms of content and staff. We agree that the President's gesture to ask the candidates for ministers to sign an ethical code is something new, and for the public there is no doubt desirable. Although commitments mainly follow constitutional and legal obligations and do not bring much new ones, this is also to be known. However, because they are gathered in one place, the public and the opposition will be able to carry out checks and assessments in a direct manner, and it is therefore particularly concerned that they have established an ethical code of conduct for the Prime Minister, the candidates for ministers and their clients in many ways already violated. The president himself, for example, did not respect the human resources criteria he had set; no one forced him to be like they were. Among the candidates proposed, they were, and are, those who are justified in doubting whether, in their work so far, they really respected all the provisions of the Code and, above all, respected honesty and fairness, rejected the function of the privilege offered, openly, clearly, unequivocally explained their views. However, since the Prime Minister has proposed them as ministers, it is highly doubtful that the ethical code has been fully implemented. We'll make sure we keep an eye on this. The coalition agreement is extensive. There are also individual acceptable goals, but the following can be said about the whole. With regard to many objectives, it remains at the level of the general public, as it promises only studies, efforts, engagements, but does not specify how these objectives will be achieved. At the same time, it includes important new material obligations for the budget and wider public spending, which are not quantified and are also, in a certain sense, contradictory to other provisions, which provide for reduced budget revenues while reducing the share of general consumption in gross social product. Therefore, as regards material objectives and possibilities, the coalition contract is inconsistent and it is not possible to know which of the list of tasks that cannot be accomplished will indeed give the coalition an advantage. Finally, as regards all tasks and objectives, it is materially limited by meeting the criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union and by ensuring the situation for the successful and efficient use of European funds, which is understandable and positive. However, if we add to this the priority obligations for the successful EU Presidency and many other commitments, then we can certainly say that all the forecasts in the coalition treaty cannot be fulfilled and that there are many empty promises. But we don't know the priority. The number of uncoordinated, materially unbalanced and many times contradictory objectives and tasks does not allow the coalition's objectives to be assessed realistically and responsibly. Just the opposite. It is so open and vague that the coalition can always adapt the assessment of its work and the fulfilment of the coalition contract to some interests and say that it has achieved something and the other will not be realized. This assessment does not change today's introduction to Mr President. Its characteristics are warnings that further relativise the clarity of the coalition objectives and programmes, as well as the priorities, as far as possible, are set out slightly differently than in the coalition contract itself. Therefore, the assessments of the integrity and contradiction of the objectives and tasks of the coalition are also justified after this introduction. But in the Coalition Treaty, unfortunately, as regards the United List of Social Democrats, there are also the tasks and definitions that are questionable to us. Let me give you some. The basic measures to achieve a successful development strategy include, in particular, market liberalisation and the sale of ownership shares in certain companies, banks and businesses. Therefore, at the expense of reducing the legal and economic security of employees and selling state ownership, rather than investing in development, knowledge and technology, they should primarily promote development. There are changes to tax legislation that are without a clear concept and objectives. The enforcement of the Income Act, which imposes lower taxation on people with lower incomes, is still questionable for the coalition. Among other things, special linear and one-off taxation of income from capital, dividends, interest, capital gains, rentals from real estate and the like is announced, and there are no provisions on property taxation. In short, whoever has a lot will pay less, and wages will remain progressively taxed. A system of payments for certain health services is foreseen. All types of income will be included in the accounts for the contributions of the debtors. The development of private education will be accelerated at all levels, including out-of-school activities, education, sports and education, while the coalition contract does not exclude the religious profession in the parishes, otherwise the school will become more educational and ideological. The establishment of new municipalities and the creation of development regions are envisaged, and the establishment of landscapes is not a government policy. Many municipalities, which will continue to be able to manage and finance in the interests of customers, are more likely to be evaluated only by the funding system, which we do not know yet. The housing programme has no quantifications; very little emphasis is placed on the resolution of rentals; the injustices of tenants in denationalised apartments and business premises are not even mentioned, nor are the huge obligations of the Slovenian compensation company and public finances at the expense of future or the denationalisation already carried out. The salary system in the public administration will be checked. This can also mean that the interests of some elite groups within the public sector will throw away all efforts so far and that we will start talking again in the pay system. There is an increase in farmers, citizens' and widow's pensions and only minimal and unclear corrections to the pension coordination system after only one year. The regulation of pension rights for Slovenian citizens who are retired in other republics, which the Prime Minister has promised to arrange in his next speech, is no longer mentioned. It foresees a new law on RTV, which will provide objective and impartial information. This has not been done so far and needs to be arranged according to the model and thinking of the coalition. There are many provisions that raise serious doubts, and there are many provisions that do not guarantee that only things that are in the interest of most citizens and citizens will be realized. Finally, the Slovenian right has a very bad conscience lately, because in the United List of Social Democrats we stress the exercise of human rights, the rights of all minorities and the equal opportunities of men and women. They tell us that we should not do this and that our efforts are not sincere. But the realization of human rights and the rights of all types of minorities is one of the divisions between the right and left-wing political parties in Europe. Because of these issues, the European Commission has also had to change its composition. In Slovenia, however, the coalition parties have, unfortunately, not only treated human rights in such an unwary, often deplorable and even hateful way that our attention and their bad conscience are understandable. And such an irresponsible policy on human rights and rights of all types of minorities is also reflected in the Coalition Treaty. I'll tell you why. The concept of human rights is mentioned on the 75th pages of the Coalition Treaty only six times, five times in relation to international relations and only once that human rights are also human rights. The same possibilities for women and men are not mentioned once in the coalition contract. The Italian and Hungarian national communities are dedicated to chapter 11 with the promise of signing a special agreement and adopting specific resolutions. That's right and good, we don't know the contents yet. The rights of the Roma community and the tasks of the congregations in which they mostly live are not given a single word. However, police protection in these areas will be increased. In his opening speech, the Prime Minister warned us that there were other national communities living with us, and he called them non-autochtons. At least he promised them the possibility of cultivating their own cultural tradition, although far from being enough, there is no word in the coalition treaty on this issue. Although the government law on same-sex partnerships is before the second hearing, if the government recognises it and adopts it within 30 days, there is nothing in the coalition agreement on it. In the previous term, we have completed Article 43 of the Constitution and have stated that we will by law lay down measures to create equal opportunities for men and women to run for elections to state authorities and local authorities. This task, although constitutional and clear, is not foreseen in the Coalition Treaty. And finally, the correction of the wrongs of those who have been erased has been lifted by the declaration of a constitutional law. Anyone who knows him knows that he is not meant to solve the rights of deleted persons, but to ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Hence, no attention is paid to human rights and then to the surprise that we are paying attention to them. Let me finish. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister has already failed to comply with the criteria he has set for the composition of the ministerial team. Can we really believe that all proposed ministers know their portfolio well and have professional references? Do they have a vision and we heard it? Do they have integrity, or can we test their leadership and abilities if they have not performed tasks so far that they can be proved and some have been less successful? All these criteria have not been met in most candidates. If we have been in doubt about their suitability when proposing candidates, we are concerned about many of them after the presentations that have been made. Only very few know their portfolio, have their own vision, professional competences and leadership skills. Most of these qualities do not exist. They tried to hide them either by long-term general speaking or by reading a coalition contract. Unfortunately, Mr President, the proposed programme and the proposed team are under your principled promises and also below our expectations. In our view, acceptance of a candidate's candidacy, which is also proposed, should not change this picture. In view of all of this, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, after a careful assessment of the Coalition Treaty and the presentations made, is convinced that such a team of ministers would be irresponsible to support. Therefore, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote against the proposal to appoint ministers. However, we express our readiness to cooperate, in accordance with our policy and coordination, in identifying and implementing solutions that are of national importance and on which the coalition will also be willing to seek consensus through the framework of government parties. Each party, government and opposition must now be responsible for Slovenia for its tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Potch. I invite the representative of the New Slovenia Group, Aloyzi Sok, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister, Prime Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, all those who follow this debate on the balcony! Today is a great day for the advancement of democracy in Slovenia. The indisputable fact is that most Slovenian citizens and citizens decided to change on 3 October this year. In Novi Slovenija, we have already decided, well before the elections, that, regardless of the outcome of the elections, we will participate fully in the Slovenian Coalition. For many democratically sensitive Slovenians, the Coalition Slovenia has been the only hope in the past four years that politics and political action as a concern for the common good still has meaning at all. We are very pleased that the Slovenian People's Party has also taken the lead in this direction, and that this has brought together all those political forces that also act in a single way within the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia. We are also pleased that the correctness of this direction has also been recognized in the party DeSUS, which, despite some internal problems, has made the right decision and joined us. Four years ago, we heard in this building that after a few months, the state of government of Andrei Bajuk in the country was alarming, catastrophic. The magnetograms that are written testify to what was said at the time about setting up that government. But if we look at the real situation today, it will not be the day when the media will not give us some incredibly destructive news. If I look only at the news we were able to hear this week that I am not going back much, one day the media will report to us about the catastrophic financial situation in Ljubljana's municipality, probably many more if it was under public or media scrutiny, the second day after the exclusive contract between the president of the Housing Fund and the notary, who happens to be the neighbour of this director or the president of the malt, then the third day about the destruction of documents at Kranj College, last night about illegal, and the previous calls at the Slovenian Railways, for which we have earmarked huge funds in this National Assembly. Almost every day in these last days, the media are reporting bankruptcys of companies in Jutrańka, Prebold, Planika. This is a loss of more than 1,000 jobs. In short, I'd say an affair. And I'm not saying here that this is all the fault of the current government that's leaving. I would like to draw attention to some difficult situation that we have in this country at a time when, after 12 years of government leadership under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this government is being shaped by a new political option. It won't be easy. This government, I suppose, will not be favored by the media either, will not be favored by the unions, probably not by many civil society institutions, but at least experience from the past suggests this, but we will be very happy in New Slovenia if we are wrong. But respectable ministers and ministers, however difficult the situation may be, do not forget the promise of upholding the rule of law, to realize the essential principle of the rule of law, that is the equality of all before the law. This is today a cancer wound in our Slovenian space. Don't forget about the little man, the Slovenian families, who are hard to break through day after day, because many don't deserve enough to survive. Remember the threatened existence of the Slovenian nation, which is trying to destroy it through various forms of moral erosion. If I mention attempts to legalise prostitution, legalize soft drugs, same-sex partner marriages, artificial fertilization of healthy women, and this is a similar experiment. Remember the consistent implementation of the modern market economy and the clear rules of the game, which must be the same for all. And here is the large financial reserve that Mr. Rop, Head of the LDS Group, spoke to me about. Do not forget the social state which must act on the basis of solidarity, personal responsibility and work evaluation. Don't forget the coherent regional development that will maintain the settlement of the Slovenian countryside on equal terms. Without small farmers, Slovenia will not preserve the cultural landscape. Remember the state administration, which must be friendly to people and citizens in order to enable them to manage all necessary administrative matters quickly and easily. After all, don't forget to listen to everyone, especially all citizens, especially the powerless and neglected, who are the most vulnerable part of our society. However, since the Slovenian state is our common concern and duty, the role of the parliamentary opposition will be particularly important in all our work. Without the opposition, there is no democracy. In this respect, in New Slovenia we will advocate that the opposition will be able to work effectively in this national assembly. We must by no means be tempted to make arguments of power over the arguments that we have experienced in this space over the past four years. At the same time, however, we expect the opposition to be constructive in supporting all those projects that are of national importance to the country, and we are very happy about this promise of Mr Rope. With regard to the part of the opposition, I should also point out that the State has a special responsibility to provide conditions for the creation of a media plural space. The experience of New Slovenia in the past is very painful in this area. If I mention only the public research paid by the government, and we all know what they were like. I am sure that we have a good government team ahead of us, and we think so in Novi Slovenija, regardless of the criticisms that the opposition MEPs will make here today by the nature of logic. It has people from different fields of expertise, with many experiences. Some have already had the most responsible functions in the government, in the Constitutional Court, in the academic sphere, in the economy. In short, everyone has a rich professional experience. From you, a respected government, we expect both us in the National Assembly and the Slovenian public not only to do quality work but also to do honest work. It probably does not need to be stressed that we will support you today as coalition New Slovenia. In doing so, we expect the cooperation that we see as a help to your work, as well as the criticism of your work when it is necessary. We expect your willingness to listen to proposals, ideas, initiatives that will be given here and outside this space. We must all work together for good relations, and your attitude and respect for the national assembly will be very important to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We want cooperation to produce a successful work and as good as possible for Slovenia. While most of your work is written down, in New Slovenia we are convinced that in the good coalition contract you will be acting on, but the real life of people often takes place somewhat differently than that of this or that of the Charter, and especially as a government you will have to listen often and look at yourself in the skin of ordinary citizens, because that is the only way you will be able to understand them and help them. Let me finally read a quote written by Thomas Jefferson, who says, "Caring for human life and happiness and not their destruction is the only legitimate purpose of a good government." On behalf of New Slovenia, I wish you to be a good government, and I express the readiness of New Slovenia to help you do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. A representative of the SLS Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the candidate for Minister and candidates for Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party has already made clear before the elections that it wants to work with similar thinkers on the right, parties who are also actively involved in the European People's Party after the elections. Even after the elections, we worked in this direction all the time. The Slovenian People's Party went to the elections with a well-designed programme, a programme covering all areas important for the development of the country of Slovenia. After the elections, we actively participated in the preparation and coordination of the joint programme in the coalition treaty. We have invested a lot of will, effort and knowledge in the preparation of the coalition agreement, we have activated individual programming groups that have been working with programme groups of other coalition parties for a coordinated programme that will be the basis for such a coalition operation, both at the government level and at the national assembly, which will ensure the further development of the state of Slovenia as members of the European Union. We are pleased that many of us have been introduced into this program. With all our ministers and MPs in the National Assembly, we will strive to implement this programme under the Coalition Treaty, of course not only in those areas that we will cover and for which we will be particularly responsible, but the entire programme, of course, within a realistically possible and priority. We have been working particularly hard and will also work together in the government's work towards the comprehensive and coordinated decentralisation of the country and the reduction of differences in the development level of individual Slovenian regions in order to ensure a safe, friendly and healthy living environment within the framework of sustainable natural spatial development, for such a family policy that will ensure the value of human life in the basic family community, including with the aim of stimulating attitudes towards greater fertility or improving demographic trends, for such a system of education and education, in which we will realize the dream of the future of our children and young people, ensuring excellence on all levels of education, with such a agricultural policy that will ensure the future of Slovenian agriculture and rural development in relation to the preservation, protection of the nature and production and processing of health food, agriculture as a pillar of sustainable rural development. Slovenia, as a country with a favourable mid-European situation, as a country with good natural and other responsibilities for the development of a number of economic sectors, as a country with proven working and capable people, has all the opportunities and conditions for faster and more comprehensively successful development if we remove the fundamental obstacle, which also enables capable and innovative economic operators, craftsmen and entrepreneurs, to work loyal farmers and workers in the future and to new knowledge-oriented doctors, scientists, teachers, men and women, young and older people cannot achieve the corresponding results with their efforts, the greater added value of European comparable wages. Colleagues and colleagues! Ministers, like Members of the Slovenian People's Party, we want to be active co-creators of the Slovenian future. We have the right knowledge and will to do so. Our ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make an appropriate contribution. We guarantee that the functioning of the ministers of the SLS in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not be like the weakest article and will actively strive to implement the commitments of the coalition treaty and the unified and coordinated functioning of the government. We will not be the breakers of the coalition, as some want to show, but the active co-creators of its policy. Your Honor! Members of the SLS Group will support the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. A representative of the SNS delegation, Mr Sašo Pece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u32	Your Honors are here! Madam Prime Minister, Mr Janša, you won the elections this year. It should be added that by winning the elections you have also gained the necessary confidence of citizens and citizens. You have also received this necessary confidence from the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Drnovska, when he proposed you as a mandate holder, and by the number of Members who have supported you as Prime Minister. We could say that this year's elections have given him the SDS programme, but we cannot say that this year's elections have given him the programme of the ruling coalition that we should follow if we want to take into account the will of citizens and citizens. Therefore, the coalition treaty, which is before us or which has been signed by four political parties and coordinated their interests and views for the next four years, cannot be considered as a document to be supported in terms of the implementation of citizens' and citizens' decisions. And if we take into account the words of the Prime Minister at his opening appearance today, when he said that the coalition treaty is the substantive basis for the functioning of the new government and thus the functioning of the executive policy over the next four years, it is right to touch the coalition treaty in the introduction. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the coalition treaty has been written very rigidly on the one hand, very targeted for individual ministers, and we fear that ministers, regardless of what name they will have, will not have free time to respond to individual issues in a timely manner. On the other hand, it must be said that this narrowness of the coalition contract, namely the alpha and the omega of the future Slovenian government, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, carries something in its content, and I will use the word harmful elements for the quality development of our country. And given that we are aware of these rigidities within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, these predetermined paths for future ministers, allow me to point out those things which are totally unacceptable for a national party in the document of the coalition agreement. I'll start with the introduction and continue through the individual content. The future coalition, i.e. individual sector ministers and the government as a whole, should also address the economic priorities where they tell us at the outset that they are not planning to change the assembly system in the form that the Slovenian National Party would be acceptable. According to our assessment, the mandatory membership assembly system is, of course, one of the rare surviving negative elements of the former system called the SFRY. According to our assessment, the constituency system is the system that blocks the freedom of entrepreneurship, which is contrary to the basic idea of Europe in this millennium. And according to our assessment, even Europe in the previous millennium. In the wake of the coalition agreement, it is our view that the main emphasis is on the procedure and the review of the withdrawal of the country from the economy. The principle, as stated or envisaged by the ruling parties, which will of course be implemented by ministers, is mistaken, according to an assessment by the Slovenian National Party Group. His sinfulness will respond or reflect in the development of our country for the next four years. I quote part of the coalition contract, which states as an exclusive that aid for the sale of our Slovenian property will be carried out by various international institutions, as if in Slovenia we do not have enough of our own companies that are able to implement and predict, to organise individual sales. No, but already in the coalition contract the foundation is laid, where it is said that foreigners will be more valuable in the future, I do not know why, as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Below the same point in the coalition contract, it follows that, in addition to the fact that the coalition will stand up for the sale of state shares, even those who already have a natural monopoly of some nature after the nature of their being, we also find this completely wrong in the National Party. But why is it wrong? On the other hand, the natural monopoly means that competition in this area is not that the state will give what is unique in the market and on the basis of which it is intended to satisfy public interest. In addition to the public interest, however, it should not be solely concerned with the acquisition of financial resources. After all, this is what the Law on Public Economics says in its first content that a country in the field of monopoly, where there is no competition, must perform services or anything to satisfy the interests of citizens and citizens, but by selling this, ladies and gentlemen, future ministers, representatives of the government, we will not be able or will not be able to comply with this first phase, this first principle, this is the satisfaction of the public interest, or in other words you will sell the matter, throw it to capital, and it will become a capital asset that will be subject to purchasing power. Of course, the Slovenians' purchasing power is not the same, it is the difference. In other words, according to my assessment or assessment of the National Party's parliamentary group, you will, by such an approach to the sale of state property that you foresee in the coalition contract, which you yourself said is alpha and the omega of the future government, help to make the differences between layers, rich - poor, much bigger than they were. Here, also in the field of economics, there are still many shortcomings or even more harmful things, according to the Group's assessment. Above all, one will be in the eyes, and I quote, "The coalition will promote foreign direct investment." This may be heard if we listen superficially, even fine, but why does it not say, the coalition will encourage domestic investment, why, if the state is already helping, say, through tax policy, subsidies, anything, why should it be recorded in the coalition contract that only foreign investors will receive it, as if Slovenian companies are not good enough to be rewarded by the Slovenian government. No, but the coalition has set itself up for its guidance, a future programme to promote foreign direct investment with tax and other policies. In the National Party, such approaches have never been welcome, we have always opposed them and we will oppose them now. We are not ashamed of the Slovenian company, nor of Slovenian citizens and citizens. But it can be understood from the title of this coalition contract that someone wants to put Slovenians and Slovenes in that secondary position. In addition to the budgetary or total public spending and state property, I must point out the disagreement between the national party's parliamentary group and the proposal on how public finances will take place. Nowhere in the coalition contract is our assessment the only acceptable fiscal policy, that is, the pursuit of a system for reducing tax revenues in our country and the promotion of that share of revenue called non-tax revenue. Therefore, to relieve already in that basic public financial act, the budget, and of course every year also the balance of citizens and citizens. In the national party, we fear that this government, too, will be the proof of this coalition contract, continued with that theory, but the easiest thing to do is to obtain financial resources through taxes. People just have to pay them, or they're being punished. But according to our assessment, this is the wrong approach. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whether former or present, should take advantage of what we call management, entrepreneurship. Slovenia has its own capital. Why, through this own capital, we do not pursue the first objective, this is to satisfy the public interest, and, on the other hand, where the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is in the form of, say, a shareholder company, to acquire financial resources. As far as the budget or public finances are concerned, it is also incomprehensible that the coalition contract itself does not define the tasks of global transfers of global income, a matter that will be very topical in the coming year, and especially on the basis of the European Union Directive. Nowhere else is written or accurate enough, and we fear that, unlike the rest of the coalition contract, there is too much room for manoeuvre as to what will happen with capital investment taxes. In some parts, the coalition treaty, of course, leaves or suggests some possible changes, and in some parts, the coalition treaty is too rigid to direct the work of future ministers. As far as the continuation is concerned, and, of course, I am underlining the coalition contract, we also point out in the national party some kind of inadequacy of the content of the coalition contract itself. On the one hand or in a particular part of this contract, the sale of banks to foreigners is envisaged. On the other hand, in the coalition contract itself, the government team states that it will do everything to make the banks, I quote, "that it will promote savings in the banking system". Or would it not make more sense, then, that part of banking, for example 50 plus 1, the government retains citizens and citizens or our country, and in this way or in this case encourages increased investment by citizens and citizens in this banking system. However, it is not possible to sell banks to foreigners, given that there is no talk of the capital power of the Republic of Slovenia when purchasing and selling banks, that neither individual nor institutional investors are calculated or foreseen. According to our assessment, these things do not go together or will go to the detriment of our country, the Republic of Slovenia. When I'm in the banking business. Only one is acceptable for a national customer: banks must remain in our country's ownership or majority ownership. All European countries are aware of this. We know cases from Portugal and Spain when they even cancelled the sale and purchase of individual banks because the governments of the countries thought it was pointless. Why? The Bank represents a service of financial services and why would we submit such a matter, which we even repaired ten years ago through the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia - we will now go to sell them? All of this, however, raises the second question, the question of the principle of a future government. Even in 1999, Mr Janša, today's mandate-holder, was co-signed by the law on the privatisation of banks, which envisaged a different solution than envisaged today under this coalition agreement. That's an interesting way of thinking. In my opinion, this is a harmful way of thinking - so that in a few years, a person changes his position so radically about one of the most important pillars in our country. And in the Slovenian National Party we will not support any law that will justify or promote such privatisation of Slovenian banking. With regard to banks, much has been said in the past, but we fear that when an individual political option moves from opposition to ruling, it will change its basic position. And this is a bad trip for this government. In the coalition contract, this government has clearly indicated to whom the Slovenian banks will go. Once again, we have saved banks, the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Credit Bank, exclusively through Slovenian capital. In 1996, Banka Slovenije concluded that the rehabilitation was successful and that the rehabilitation cost the country 400 billion Slovenian tolars. But the way you see it, that is to say in this sale, suggests the possibility or the next move that we will not be able to get even a refund, let's say, the share that the banks have today at home and in the former Yugoslavia area, and finally in the world. According to our assessment, such a matter should not be a priority or should not be part of a coalition treaty at all. As far as the area of victims of war violence is concerned, I must say that, within the framework of the national party's parliamentary group, we are confident and will always stand to see that no government, whether it is one or her, has the right to change history, and we do not see any cooperation here. According to our assessment, history is to teach us something to learn from her mistakes. Not to try to adapt history to government or individual political interests. The area of local self-government, according to our assessment of the essential elements, also points to a future negative trend in this type of development. For the first time, as regards interest in the establishment of new municipalities, it is contrary to the interest of the national party. In our national party, we are convinced that the number of congregations in our country is already too large. 192 and 194 municipalities clearly indicate the need for financial resources, inability to survive on their own, and the material of non-development programmes. However, in the Coalition Treaty, you also allow for the possibility of finding some kind of political interest or in accordance with the interests of the population, taking into account the legal conditions and similar things [[Even though we all know what's behind]] The number of congregations will increase. These are things that are unacceptable to a national party. However, particular emphasis should be placed on the international activity of the future government. Above all, with regard to relations with the United States of America, where, according to our assessment of the current or new government, it is not possible to decide what position it will have with the EU, on the other hand, to the United States, to whom it will try to please more. The coalition agreement shows what should not be. It is that he tries to please the one he is judged to be strong. According to our assessment, there should be, or a coalition treaty should be, a Slovenian being, but not that it is written in, that we will try to please the United States. While we entered the EU a few months ago, we have already found another partner. According to our assessment, this is a matter of indiscretion. However, an interesting chapter is, of course, the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, where it is interesting that the new Slovenian government is trying to read Croatia, because it says so, "has caught the train between 2007 and 2009", and on the other hand, we have heard one of the representatives of the ruling parties who are trying to make Slovenia a net recipient of financial resources. However, when we know exactly that at this point Slovenia will no longer be a recipient, it will be a net contributor. But no, the new government assumes that this is a national interest or even more, not that it is a national interest, but I quote: "Slovenia does not act directly in the name of its national interest with regard to border issues with Croatia", please listen carefully, but it says, "but in the interests of the EU." Excuse me, but it is incomprehensible that Slovenia, in relation to the Republic of Croatia, will not represent its national interest, but will represent the European interest. So what, you're ashamed you're Slovenian? What is fundamental is to defend our interests. In the National Party, we cannot give support to such a team that writes such things into a coalition contract. There is still a great deal of criticism below, Mr Rupar, I believe that you are laughing, that it is quite funny and that it is not the Slovenian national interest. [[...]] But that's your business. Please do not burden the country of the Republic of Slovenia with this. And as for the new chapter, where there is a large amount of disagreement, of course, it is justice. In terms of finding solutions to reduce judicial backlogs, this government also foresees measures that will have no effect. We told you yesterday and several times back, according to our assessment, that the most quality solution is the limitation of the judicial mandate. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had taken and indicated the possibility of restricting a permanent judicial mandate, it would have made clear that it was ready to take measures, namely those slightly more energetic measures. However, we are so afraid that the result of this government in four years' time will be a pitiful force, or I am sorry that the result will be that we lose that part of our pride and that part of our Slovenian assets in one form or another, that we will try to please foreigners and others even more. Let me finish with a word. In view of the fact that the presentation of the position of the National Party's delegation took place in avoiding the names of individual ministers and ministers, as we estimate that the coalition treaty is once again, I stress, regrettably, written in such a way that it is so directing that it is almost irrelevant who will lead the individual sector, because everything is already written in here. We will not, of course, support the proposal of ministers in the National Party. However, of course, we want to do so, given that we know that they will be elected, perhaps just a direction to the new ministers. The less you try to comply with the Coalition Treaty and as much as possible for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the representative of the DeSUS Group, Mr Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u34	Honourable President, Honourable Commissioner, Honourable Candidates for Ministers and Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A democratic party of pensioners was created to ensure that life in this country can be directly affected as a political party. Thus, DeSUS came to Parliament in 1996 with five Members, in 2000 four and this year again with four Members. Although the party has resisted the half-million-dollar electoral base of pensioners for all years of its activities, the latter in all the elections of the National Assembly have been mostly supported by other political parties, while the responsibility for their fate and position in society has generally been unduly imposed on our party. In doing so, it is not possible to avoid the fact that the client’s programme has been primarily focused on the protection of the rights of pensioners acquired over the years, which has proved indisputably to be a solution in the context of the 1999 pension and disability insurance reform. Ensuring and preserving the social state when it comes to social protection, health rights, the situation of persons with disabilities, the protection of the elderly and the assistance is a central substantive definition which the party is constantly devoting to the necessary amount of attention. Formally open to all adult citizens, enough good content can also be found in its programme for younger generations, which need to provide accessible education and then employment and other conditions for family creation. For all of this, the necessary resources can only be provided in the long term with the successful development of the economy, which, at the appropriate economic growth, should create the new value needed to improve the lives of all on the basis of an inter-generational agreement and solidarity. Our party's support also goes to more coherent regional development, urgent decentralisation and more effective local self-government. We support the rule of law of established human rights and equal opportunities for all generations. As an ideologically unrelated and independent party, we have always decided in previous mandates to join the government coalition in order to implement our programme in the interest of our voters and all other citizens. Thus, even after this year's elections, we faced a new kind of challenge, we were invited to participate and we received a draft coalition agreement in which we sought out the key points of the programme's direction and started negotiations with the objective of writing at least the main content in the coalition contract, so that it is acceptable for the basic objectives of our programme as well. Because of the many instigations, perceptions and even threats, it is right for the public, and especially the pensioners, to say what is in this Treaty, which has helped us to decide to participate in this coalition. We have written down, inter alia, that by 30.6.2005 a new law will be adopted with amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act so that pension growth will consistently follow the salary increase from 1.10.2005 onwards in order to gradually introduce a widow's pension of at least 10% of all pensioners from 1.1.2006 onwards in order to increase the regression for recreation in the next year by 10 thousand tolars, otherwise it should gradually reach 75% of those employed in the public sector. In the negotiations on social security, rights and the situation of pensioners, we have always realized that pensioners, although very many, are not the only ones in this country, so we have not been able to come to terms with the negotiations, and we have not wanted to, all expectations. These expectations are real and are only a patch in the position and standard of the pension life, but they do not represent the collapse of the economic power of the country, because they are such small corrections that they cannot have a significant impact on everything else. We have introduced a chapter on the protection of the elderly, who are more and more every day, and whose problems will certainly become increasingly entrenched in insurmountable problems if we do not pay any more attention to this. The coalition will not reduce the level of social protection. I don't think it's anyone in this room who would say that we can stop social support or achieve the level of that. The scope of health services rights should not be reduced. In doing so, the functioning of the coalition will focus on this area in order to reduce waiting periods and facilitate accessibility. The necessary resources for the compulsory part of the scope of health rights will be provided on the basis of full solidarity. We will adopt a law on compensatory schemes to prevent selective increases in premiums for older and sick insured persons in the area of voluntary insurance. As early as 2005, it will be necessary to consider the possibility of legislative arrangements for the introduction of long-term care insurance, which is one of the very difficult problems of health and social care. The coalition will ensure the establishment and functioning of the Ombudsman. The Coalition will explore the possibilities for creating conditions for the creation and development of young families and the progressive introduction of family work rights. The coalition will support the decentralisation and strengthening of local self-government. The coalition will ensure the reasonable use of space and the continued establishment of regional and natural parks. It will comply consistently with European standards for environmental, water and land protection and will continue to implement the national environmental protection programme. When the country withdraws from the economy, we have written down the sequence, which is also understood by prudence and prudence. The assets of KAD will be the basis for ensuring the long-term stability of the pension system. We have also been able to improve the proposal for a coalition treaty in a number of other provisions, including that the coalition treaty can only be amended or supplemented in agreement with all the signatories. Everything said was the foundation that the party in the world decided to join the new government coalition. We are united in this respect by the four members of the DESUS in order to implement the agreement in the coalition agreement of the stated objectives responsibly, without allowing ourselves to be intimidated by those who are more ideological than they are for substantive reasons. In view of the constitutional arrangements, it is possible to defend and ensure the social state in each coalition, irrespective of its ideological omen, especially because we have agreed that ideological differences must not jeopardise the functioning of the coalition in achieving the agreed objectives. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will support the proposal of the new government's mandate, although it is now possible to predict that the coalition treaty may not be fully implemented and at all points, but not all of the previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. In doing so, we have exhausted the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Mr. Rudolph Petan, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In these days, we are hearing opinions on the composition of the new government, on the ability of individual ministers, on their abilities, it is said, on the ability of the entire government. We also hear good wishes, as well as doubts and doubts. But what's a little bit strange here is that these doubts of individuals would already be enough to "out" the reason for an individual candidate. It is also interesting to listen to the opinions of some of the government's members so far, I say, not all of them. In fact, "the coalition contract is unreal." This means that it was prepared by people who have no idea who have just made up a list of wishes. We can also hear that individual candidates are not well known, that we do not know them with similar experiences and that they are not experts in certain areas. Or for a short time, inexperience, inexperience, and lack of managerial skills. In doing so, I will not acknowledge that so far there has been one and the same political option, and I would like to present the matter on the other hand. In doing so, we can immediately ask ourselves, on what criteria or on whose basis you rated the candidate. The fact is that we have all studied at the same schools, either in the same school system or in the same school system, the same programmes, the difference in the assessment of competence can only be made in the political preference. It has almost become a habit not to say in practice that if, under the proposal of a candidate, a party to the so-called left option is signed, the candidate was an automatic a priori political, independent and highly professional expert who should not be questioned at all. When it comes to a second political option, it's the other way around. That this is so, too, proves - it is not the only case of salvation and would explain everything, but as a trifle is the case of Šimenc, who was an expert, because it was proposed by the right political option, regardless of not having a diploma at all, but even falsified it and won the competition, whatever it was, before other candidates who probably had a diploma. But apparently he's still an expert, because I haven't seen any doubt as to how he could have done his job if he didn't have a degree. So he's still an expert, because he's obviously behind some real political option. That something is wrong with our performance and our perception of expertise is also proving, I'll call it, strange. If the ruling structure has been really so highly professional - it has been, too, it has to be recognised, but if it has really been so terribly highly professional, if it has really been the only one able to run the country, we can rightly ask ourselves how they have not been detected, because it has probably not been possible to prevent it, but to detect it in a timely manner, such as what is happening around the bank's SIB. It took so long and they didn't see it. And despite the complaint given on our side, they still haven't detected it. I would like to point out that it was probably not just one person in the game that he could hide it from others, but there must have been more people who carried out such an action at such great value. How long can it not be discerned by Orion’s expertise and the Zbilsky grove, as well as by the writings in the prosecutor’s closets? It was not possible to prevent this, but to detect if the judicial branch was independent. But it was possible to detect it. How is it possible so long not to detect the lending of a billion SIT bankruptcy managers in Maribor, and instead of getting the money from the workers, it was received by the directors of some strange companies, who do not know whether they will be able to repay the money now or not. Not to mention the cheap sale of good firms. And I could even list it. But time will run out, and colleagues will probably tell their own. But when it comes to a new structure, a new government, all of a sudden, he has such terrible doubts about expertise and competence. Now we have experienced all of this in this awesome expertise. All of this proves that this strong expertise, according to one policy option, is obviously not enough and that there has to be something else, more. In doing so, I would like to point out that certainly our school institutions have educated a large number of experts and that not all are in one political option, this is said in the coalition so far. But if that were true, we should ask ourselves about our profession. But I have a pretty calm conscience. I will not ask such questions because the answer is clear. This was not the last time that Slovenians and Slovenians met, and they made a different decision in the elections. Clearly, this arrogance and determination of who is the expert and who is not is sufficient, according to political standards. Apparently, they are tired of believing that there is only one profession on one side and only one political option, and that there are no others, and that there are only a few 100 people in Slovenia who can lead the country. It's an insult, it's an unprecedented smugness, and an unprecedented arrogance. Slovenians and Slovenes are convinced that despite a lot of error in the school system, the users were all of us, we all went through this school system, created a cadre, which is also politically dispersed, and that the political option that won the elections on 3 October has enough experts, I will not say in abundance, but enough to lead the country. If that is what most voters and voters thought on October 3rd, I do not have the fear that this government would not be able to manage this difficult task. I will therefore, of course, support such a proposal, and I will vote in favour. However, to the Prime Minister and the entire government, of course, I want a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u38	Dear Prime Minister Janez Janša, if you will listen to me outside these premises. When you presented your list of candidates and candidates, you accompanied her with a comment that it was a good offer, but you added, well within the given conditions. With this reference to the situation you have indicated to us, at least that is how I understand the shortcomings of the candidates, which is undoubtedly confirmed by the hearings below. You probably also wanted to report with these given circumstances that you were determined by the coalition partners and their offer that offered you what it offered you. Anyway, you're not too much, and to the extent you've predicted, you've taken advantage of that 500 dream set before the election of the promised experts we're supposed to have in the waiting room. Your Honor, you've also confirmed some doubts about the team you've proposed. On top of it or with it, I believe you intend to set up a government development council to take care of good government decisions with your professional authority. Such a world of wise men, which can prevent any wise decisions of ministers, of course, we welcome, especially since it is intended to keep an eye on the development and economic issues which are blurred in many ways in the coalition treaty. It is true, however, that his intended leader, economist Mr Micho Mrkaič, will soon be in a conflict situation. Recently, in Finance, he claimed that culture kills, literally. He moved on to a non-institutional culture on Metelkova, where he was supposed to be, quote "the bed of left-wingism" and where "the money for culture from which there is no benefit" is to be confused, the end of the quote. Mr. Janez Janša, I ask you, who will you then listen to? To the minister of culture who thinks, at least so at the hearing, that it's not so and that culture brings us back to life, even establishes us, or the one who says that it kills us? The President-in-Office that you are a mandate-holder today is also due to the promises you have gained people's confidence in. Your ministers could no longer defend these promises at the hearings. The Minister responsible for much of the wage policy, work and social protection today advocates a model of greater flexibility in employment, which also means easier dismissal of workers. If social rights were still primary yesterday, they are now relative, to stimulate progress, it has been said. Most of the promises remained, but some softened. What are you going to say to those voters who were expecting a school believer, and he's gone today? Above all, today, we have no idea how much it's going to cost. For me, there was only one message of hearing, and we're selling out maybe we're selling out state property. Your team brings in a respected mandate-holder, a scrambling of some important democratic gains. For example, the Minister of Labour, for example, thinks that civil society organisations are not well maintained by the state, is being paid by the state, as they are becoming, as it says, corporate state institutions, if those who pay also have an impact on paid ones. How, according to this logic, the honourable President, will be able to revive the media pluralisation fund. It can be independent if it is powered by the budget. And it's only supposed to power a certain, very important policy segment of media content, just an information programme of electronic and printed media, a political programme. Has not the time passed when it was possible to regulate the media. And it's not just the media that's on the market. The Coalition Treaty has made it very clear that there are many doubts about the objectivity and impartiality of public television programmes. Has not the time passed when politics made lists of appropriate and inappropriate content in school curricula? Today we hear they're not. Did not the time pass when it was believed that the teacher’s authority could be strengthened by increased repression or punishment at school? Today we hear they're not. Wasn't it the time when women were sent to the kitchen? Today we hear they're not. Personal views about abortion are different today from those of the former country. Mr. Commissioner! Your candidates have been awarded a prize. There is no need for you to reward the Slovenian people with them, as policy management is undoubtedly a very responsible professional work. No code can erase the problems of some candidates we have witnessed in hearings, no reference to ethics helps if it is not understood what ethics is in fact. Your candidate for minister claims that the same-sex partnership law belongs to health care, ergo, homosexuals are patients and medical disorders. He also claims that prostitution is a police matter. Also, um, another candidate believes that the so-called deleted problem of migration policy is. This is also claimed by the Coalition Treaty. And finally, Mr. Commissioner, I ask you: What about deleted? Will you now, as threatened when you were sitting here on this page, institute criminal proceedings against officials who have issued decisions to deleted persons, otherwise in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision? Mr. Commissioner! Today is a big day, not only because it is December 3rd, it is literally France Prešerna's birthday, but today is also the day when the doors are opened in cultural institutions for all visitors. There is an open door for a new government in the political institution. I wish that this door would not be stuck in the good of all Slovenes and Slovenes and in adjustments to what we read in your programme called the coalition contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Janko Weber, the United List of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the process of appointing ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, can be directly linked to both the coalition contract and the presentation of candidates and candidates in the National Assembly, I am impressed by the feeling that we are entering Slovenia, which will be extremely centralistically regulated. Why does it feel like that? It is a matter of being one of the most capable candidates for a future minister, who will certainly implement such a European transport policy for the construction of European corridors, which is certainly one of the greatest gains at Slovenia's entry into the EU, otherwise these corridors would certainly take place outside our territory. This is therefore an exceptional development opportunity and an important role for Slovenia within the EU through transport policy. However, all the other areas that have been presented show me direction, which is not the most favourable. If I touch on environmental policy, it is a fact that we should respect Nature 2000 consistently, which means that 35% of Slovenian territory will actually leave to the needs of birds directly involved in this nature and, of course, rare species as well as plant species. A large part of Slovenia will be dedicated to this life. This is not the best direction, but not because Natura 2000 is not yet set, it is not negotiated in enough precise content in Brussels, so the government should take the initiative to try to get Natura to the most real ground, which will also allow people to exist in the countryside in particular, and not leave this area only to Natura 2000. The next problem I see in the environment is that, during the presentation, there was very little chance that, if there was a four-year mandate, there would be a solution to the nuclear landfill, a solution to the management of municipal waste, probably through the incineration system. And if this is not achieved in this period, Slovenia will have to resolve this problem beyond its borders. This means that we will also have a very small impact on the daily problems that municipal waste causes, while of course this means the outflow of domestic capital outside Slovenia, which means that the impact of some potential regional development is being reduced and that this promotes centralism and too much influence through other international institutions on the development of Slovenia. If I skip to agricultural policy for a moment, we can also see that agricultural policy will go towards an exceptional increase in its own structure. And given that we do not have a land maximum in Slovenia, it means that we will have very large opportunities for this in this four-year period to become individuals of exceptional size, either renters or landowners. Which, on the other hand, means vacating the countryside again, or this can only be achieved if so many and so small farms fail in the middle. And to that end, we can also see from a coalition treaty that speaks very clearly about the fact that the common agricultural policy, which, in my opinion, is extremely suitable for the Slovenian region, will not be introduced until 2007 and, in fact, from 2007 to 2013, the regional policy or the regional importance of the common agricultural policy. Therefore, during this period of government, we will not put too much pressure on ourselves. If I add to this the fact that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which already has the largest real estate estate in Slovenia, will play a very important role, which is extremely hostile to the local environment and to regionalism, as all the capital in this environment is concentrated in Ljubljana and does not remain in areas where this capital is created through these naturalities, it also means that it also points to an extremely centralistic direction of government. And if I add to this a reduction in the impact of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to no longer deal with real estate business or should no longer affect the real estate market, it means that regional policy is failing, because the housing fund itself had an extremely good feeling that a lot of capital was being transferred to remote areas and thus maintained the possibility of coherent regional development. By abolishing this jurisdiction of the Housing Fund means that we are going to centralise property management, which will not have the effect on the development of the country as this fund has so far. I only hope that the government will be truly successful in all the activities that will relate to the possibility of obtaining funds from European funds. If that is not the case, my sense of centralism will surely be realized to the greatest extent possible. However, this ability to draw on European funds will certainly be very small if we take into account narrow client interests, which usually do not contribute to the spread, but try to meet and realize some narrow interest, which usually does not represent a major gain for the general public. I hope that the promise made by the Prime Minister will also be made that the opposition will also participate in fund management bodies and also in companies that will be key to directing capital in Slovenia or the development of individual areas. And if this doesn't work out, this sense of centralism will be really, I repeat, too big. I would like Slovenia to pursue its development in a way that is also somehow separated from other members of the European Union, that is, we are more populated, more dispersed in Slovenia than in other countries of the European Union, and I think that this should also be successfully defended and enforced on our way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a list of candidates submitted by the mandate-holder for consideration or approval and the way in which the candidates conducted the hearing in front of the home work bodies, I can say that it is very appropriate and professionally well-trained. As I monitored their performances, I was convinced that candidates and candidates for ministers had given themselves many important tasks to carry out. Of course, all of this will require a lot of coordination and coordination between the various resources. The coalition contract clearly sets out the priorities of the future government, and it is therefore most important at this time that the government proceed to the execution of its tasks or to start its work as soon as possible. The candidates I had the opportunity to listen to convinced me with their appearances. I believe that, at this point, the most important realization is that the government's programming platforms are well placed within the next four years. Above all, as a major advocate of a healthy environment, he is looking forward to some innovations in the environmental field, particularly in the area of municipal waste management, where the country will finally play an active role in determining the location of landfills. I also had the opportunity to monitor the implementation of the future Foreign Minister and the candidate for the Minister of Defence. About Mr Rupl, I don't think there's any point in losing words, because his work so far has proved how highly skilled this job is. Certainly, however, Mr Erjavec's candidate for Minister of Defence has been positively surprised by the fact that there are some new developments from his programme that will also benefit from the activities I come from alone. I have no intention of going into the details of the individual candidates' programmes, but I would like to present another aspect of everything that has been happening lately that has bothered me a lot. In fact, there was too much negativity in the media about ministerial candidates. There was no doubt about the shadows, there was a lot of speculation, and I am very glad that all these clues were denied by the candidates with their reasoned appearances. It seems important to me that we finally start to look to the future and finally work together to do good and better, for the benefit of all Slovenes and Slovenians. There will be a lot of time to evaluate the work of ministers, but I think that the performance of the country as a whole will depend largely on us, Members and Members, because in some areas it will finally be necessary to overcome the political divide and to make decisions that will truly benefit all citizens. Of course, I will be happy to support the proposed list of candidates for ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u44	Honourable President, Prime Minister, candidate, candidates for ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, all of them a good day. I want to discuss the area that I know the most, which is certainly one of the most important areas and the problems that the European Union is dealing with, and nothing else is in Slovenia, and there are a number of people who are connected to this life. The candidates for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, after her presentation on the working body of the mother body, cannot reveal the ignorance of the field of agriculture. It is true, however, that in many agricultural stories in the near past, such good, and unfortunately also bad, which are very well known to the Slovenian public, plays major roles. On the basis of her presentation, we can conclude that the whole area of agriculture, forestry and nutrition will not receive the same concern and attention - I think it is wrong - but the emphasis of her ministry will be to encourage the increase of property on large farms and thus to regulate and reorganise both the agricultural land and forests fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the project to prepare legal bases for the arrangement of mutual insurance in the event of natural disasters in agriculture. Good, very necessary, but for a comprehensive review of the extremely sensitive and very important area for Slovenia, unfortunately, quite little. The candidate was too general, too honey and unconvincing to answer the purely specific questions concerning the hard everyday life of our farmers and foresters. However, we have not received an answer to some questions from Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thus, for example, a candidate for a minister has not wanted or succeeded after two additional requests, God forbid, but she did not know that the Ministry and the Agency will operate and operate within the mandate of 2004-2008 so that Slovenia will be able to draw all of the European money that is or will be intended for Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmers, so that these hard-earned funds will not be returned to the European budget. This is a key issue of Slovenian agriculture for today and tomorrow. In particular, in most of the questions that required answers regarding the specific financial consequences, such as higher pensions of farmers, early retirement of farmers, free of charge, and the necessary legal assistance of farmers, it has been avoided with an explanation that analysis is necessary to do so. In doing so, we must point out that the candidate has also failed to explain how she intends to carry out the accreditation of the Agency, which will have important remittances in 2005 in drawing money from a number of European funds. She said that 160 employees at the Agency were also sufficient to implement new measures, except that the Agency had to be organised differently to manage all this area. I know what the agency is doing, and these 160 people are not in line with these tasks today, and the problems we are dealing with in Slovenia today, so I stress that the agency needs to be professionally strengthened and additional human resources strengthened. As I have already mentioned, the candidate lady has given great attention to land policy or plans to promote the increase in the ownership of large farms. Really big, unfortunately, means the collapse of small farms, which are still valuable in terms of Slovenian space. That is why, given the fact that the Ministry's short-term tasks included the drafting of regulations and other grounds for the implementation of subsidies, we were interested in its attitude towards these calls, which are now adapted to larger farmers. We are also interested in her attitude towards the survival of many small farms, which is closely linked to the issue of sustainable rural development and the population of this beautiful country. With the candidate lady's position that at least 40,000 small farms should be maintained in Slovenia, we expected, but unfortunately not, to receive, her concrete assurance that, as Minister, she would amend the relevant regulations so that the tenders themselves would be more focused on the conservation of small farms and more targeted at demographically endangered areas or areas with limited opportunities for agricultural activity. And there are many in Slovenia. Let me just give you an example that in the field of agriculture there is now a condition for obtaining support at least one hectare large garden. As has already been said, we did not get these concrete guarantees for the preservation of small farms from the candidate lady. Madam candidate Marija Lukačič, we also asked the Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia how she, as Minister, will proceed to reduce the backlog in the resolution of complaints. At the first stage it's an agency, at the second stage it's the Ministry of Agriculture. We didn't get that particular answer either. However, later, when the candidate lady saw the problem, she stressed the importance of increasing free legal advice to farmers, and we also strongly agree in the Liberal Democracy. At the same time, we are concerned that this mandate will not leave everything in the hands of mere over-control. With such a large number of complaints, you should know that these complaints are in Slovenia almost 6000, it is clear that the system needs to be fully checked. There's something wrong with the system. In the event of a large number of pending complaints in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also stress the potentially large financial liabilities of late interest. It is right and fair that the stick is as long for the country as it is for the farmer, for the forester and for the other citizens. With additional, free legal advice, which, according to the candidate lady, is to be carried out through the agri-agricultural chamber, we also point out the need for these relations between the agri-agricultural chamber, the agri-agricultural institute and public institutions to be re-examined and regulated. We have not received special assurances for this by our candidate. However, we agree with her position that it is necessary to raise the threshold for compulsory membership in the agri-agricultural chamber, or that it would be even better to regulate this by doing so on a voluntary basis. If I can sum it up. From Mrs Lukačič's presentation, she will do whatever it takes to increase Slovenian farms. Sadly, though, he forgets those small, important landscapers who will undoubtedly be affected by this. It is clear that changes and complements the agricultural and rural development strategy will also go in this direction, which will be one of the Ministry's important projects in this mandate. Unfortunately, however, the candidate did not sufficiently convince us that she would also create conditions for the development of small farms in restricted areas. With its general answers to specific questions, and also with its failure to answer the questions raised, it has not convinced us that it is competent to deal with the many challenges facing Slovenia's agricultural and forestry membership in the EU. It is also clear that there was no answer to the question of how, personally, the EU diplomatic floor will exercise the interests of Slovenian agriculture. We also believe that, in her presentation, the candidate has unduly gone beyond the scope and is extremely important for the health of Slovenian consumers in the area of health protection or safe food production. Last but not least, we are surprised that the President of the Government for the management of the centre, where budgetary expenditure amounts to almost EUR 190 million, has proposed Mrs Marija Lukačič, whose role in the functioning of the farm and forest fund in the past and is still not satisfactory and fully explained today. In this story, it is not likely that it is irrelevant what the Slovenian public thinks, but the message we read today in Officer Work when public opinion research was carried out in this area is quite eloquent. The fact is, the applicant's public does not support it. The facts and actions caused by the non-support of the candidate on the committee have not changed to this day. We believe that Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian consumer need concrete measures to improve not so badly. However, progress and development between and silent promises of this team and the bureaucratic approach certainly do not guarantee. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the proposed candidate despite the effort to understand. As an opposition party, we will work in favour of Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u46	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Honourable Prime Minister, Prime Minister, candidate for Minister and other candidates! Good-bye! First some personal notes in this debate, then something else, I'd say, client notes. Ever since I was a child, I have felt on my skin what it means to be different. I felt what it means to refer to your conscience, morals, and ethics, and what it means, for example, if you have to publicly defend yourself at 10 years of age, why, say, go to church. The reasons for such a situation at the time are clear, and there are also clear factors that made it possible for the system to implement such situations. And today, as only on the basis of the most normal event in a democratic society, this is the result of elections, we are facing the process of setting up a new government, which is the second most normal event for democratic countries and today I am listening to the moralization of the representatives of some political parties, the successors of the then regime that I have experienced on my skin. It is about moralizing the issue of conscience, morality, ethics, human rights, etc. I wonder if the criteria for the assessment of these representatives are the same as they have been for decades, if they have changed overnight. If they are the same as they were after years of their rule, then this new government will not help much. But if they have changed overnight, I think that this is one very large and good result of the last elections in Slovenia, because in this case these parties will really be able to act constructively and judge the work of the government, which can be even better. Of course, doubts in advance are not a constructive approach nor a constructive opposition to the work of the new government. And they only mean assessing future actions after past actions of themselves. In this sense, I believe that some of our proposals, New Slovenia, which were part of such a coalition treaty, which we know to be some kind of political compromise, such as a compromise to any political action that must be joined by several partners. On the one hand, the criticism of the lack of clarity of the coalition contract, on the other hand, the denial and reading of the very concrete acts that are to take place under this coalition contract, unfortunately cannot be understood as a constructive opposition and is not predicted as such. Let me explain the accession of New Slovenia only to those candidates in the new composition in the new government that we have proposed. We know that not in public or in the workplace are our three candidates, Dr. Bayuk, mags. Petty Officer and Dr. Zupan did not comment on some of the key professional comments. We can say that candidates are credible, professional and also enjoy public support. Therefore, I do not think that such a flat-rate assessment of some party representatives is justified - that the team is completely poor or very bad - but I can say that the team I am talking about now is particularly the team proposed by Nova Slovenija, which is very solid and can mean credible governance in the coming years. Of course, it must be realized that the current government, the new government, comes under circumstances that are in some cases very confusing. Therefore, the issues of the new opposition and the government coalition so far are in some ways distasteful. We know from the European funds that it is very conditional on what has been done so far. In a way, the questions raised by the current opposition are as follows: we are very interested in how you will solve things that we did not know or wanted to do, and tell us. However, if answers are already being sought, a very negative scenario is being sought. I think that, despite the fact that normality - opposition and position - in every parliament, such debates on this, I will say, the groundless basis is not the best travel of the new government, which is supposed to help the whole country move from a point that we all know is not clear right now - particularly in the financial field. It would be possible, however, to touch only New Slovenia's relations with one of the so-called non-party candidates, that is to say, Mr Lovr Šturm, about which some ridiculous doubts were also raised in public. I don't know where they came from. If I merely summarize some of the key criteria that make it right that Nova Slovenije has also supported this candidate as a candidate for the Minister of Justice, it should be said that Dr Šturm is so theoretical and practical as to be a doctor of legal science, was Head of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, Lecturer of Administrative Law at the Faculty of Law, Head of the Department of Administrative Science, a practical expert, was a member of the Constitutional Court, a Constitutional Judge and even a President of the Constitutional Court. He worked as an expert and consultant in the international organisations of the OECD, the UN and the European Centre for the Coordination of Research in Social Science. He is a co-author and editor of comments of the Constitution of Slovenia. Of course, there have also been some other concerns in the public, and I think it is right that we define ourselves publicly, those who support this new government, up to these. Apparently, he's a member of the Maltese Knight's Order. Of course, in this debate we should ask how many of us are members, say, Lions Club, Rotary Club and so on. No one's ever wondered about that until today. We know that the Maltese Knights Order is one of the oldest charities that has been in operation for almost 900 years and is in fact engaged only in charitable and charitable activities. Members of this Order shall be classified in several stages. In the third stage, at which Dr. Sturm is also called the Main Knights, who do not give any special oaths or vows of devotion and obedience to anyone. It should be known that in this order some well-known foreign politicians, such as the Italian Senator and former President Cosiga and Valery Giscard d'Estaing, are former French President and, as you know, one of the main drafters of the European Constitution. For this reason, I believe that questions about such memberships, on such ranks are entirely unfounded and an attempt to discredit a man who unquestionably enjoys a great deal of professional and moral support both between his colleagues and in the political order. In view of the fact that today is also a holiday, not only of democracy, but also of cultures in Slovenia, I would like to conclude constructively that I too would not appear otherwise, in the spirit of Dr. Francet Prešern's birthday, "that the uncle will be free every one, not the devil, only the neighbour will be a magician". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, respected Prime Minister. We are ahead of the decision when we decide on the team proposed by the mandate holder or Prime Minister. It is right that this strange period ends when we have a government that, as far as the mandate is concerned, is limited and when we have a Prime Minister who does not yet have his own team. So I will be very happy to cooperate in such a way that we can get this team as soon as possible. All candidates or candidates have also presented themselves to us on these relevant committees. I must say that I was particularly disturbed by the fact that, before the candidates even introduced themselves, there were various assessments of incompetence, poor expertise and the like. Personally, that doesn't feel right to me. It is right to hear the program, it is right for the candidate to introduce himself and only then to make a judgment. I myself participated in the hearing or presentation of five candidates, which is basically a third of this team. And I think the pattern that I got is big enough, representative enough that I can extend the general belief about what I saw and heard to the whole team. I cannot agree with what has been said that there was too little time at the presentation to ask questions. On all the committees where I participated, these presentations lasted from two to four hours and all those who wanted to ask were able to ask a question and all of them were given answers. And the debate ended when there were no more those who wanted further answers. There were also a number of comments on the coalition agreement. I must say, as far as this is concerned, I'm a little confused. On the one hand, I hear that it is too much, guiding that ministers will have no role at all, because everything is set and written down, and on the other hand we hear that it is general, insufficiently precise, inconsistent and that the list is a list of wishes and so on. Now I really don't know whether to listen to this or the other side, but I think it's best that I listen to my reason and conclude with an assessment that this coalition agreement is very well prepared, that it is a very good basis for further work, and that it is likely, because life is also unpredictable, that sometimes a trifle needs to be added or taken away. I would not agree with some estimates that the new team is waiting for a simple job because almost everything is over, everything is in order. I am sure that the work will be hard, hard and that these candidates will prove themselves with their competence, expertise, good and honest work. That is why I will be happy to confirm this team with the desire that the executive branch of the government will start to deal with what it is also in Slovenia for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable House, Honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Janša! Let me focus myself on some state-owned ministries. We know the new old Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, so we do not expect major surprises. In his presentation to the Committee on Foreign Policy, Dr Rupel said that he would mainly advocate the continuation of the government's policy so far, and the priorities remained largely the same. However, we would like to have a more firm or at least more precise definition of future policy in relations with Croatia and the regulation of open or controversial issues with Croatia. It is not clear what relationship the new Minister and the Ministry under him will take with regard to the situation of the Slovenian national community in Italy and Austria. To talk about the fact that Slovenians have actually achieved a hundred-year dream of a united Slovenia by joining Slovenia into the European Union, but at the same time to say nothing about what our strategy and tactics will be in order to meet the absolutely pragmatic commitments of both countries to our minority is, of course, too little. For example, we are about to mark the 50th anniversary of the Austrian State Treaty and it has not been mentioned at all. Whether it is still valid for us or whether we will still refer to it, or whether we will quietly agree that the neighbouring country is not in very important work. Well, there is certainly not a democratic country around here, where we would have appointed an internal minister as a military person and a former surface intelligence officer. There has been no military participation in the Republic of Slovenia since the time of independence. The standard was established for the Ministry of Defence to be consistently led by civilians, and now the Colonel of the Slovenian Armed Forces will become an internal minister. At a time when we stress the importance of separating the military from the civilian sphere, at a ministry where awareness of human rights and fundamental freedoms needs to be nurtured, and where it is necessary to know how to recognize everyone, whether it is a minor intervention, or any minor violation thereof, it is absolutely unacceptable to put a man at the head of this ministry, who, for example, has been accused by a disciplinary commission at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of exceeding his powers as a military attaché at our Embassy in Sarajevo of spying for his fellow civilists. That's why Colonel Mate was called out of Sarajevo. However, under the leadership of Polonce Dobrajc, the National Intelligence and Security Supervisory Commission of the SDS, assessed today that the leadership of the ODS and the Defence Ministry in relation to intelligence activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina had exceeded the powers given under the Defence Act and that the military attaché had exceeded the normal framework for the functioning of military and diplomatic representatives. We wonder what the Prime Minister and the mandate-holder are telling us when he puts Dragutin Matey as the Minister of the Interior. What can we hope for? On one occasion, an infamous dictator, or specialist in intelligence efficiency, said something like this: "Trust is good, but control is even better." I'm afraid we explain this river to each other in our own way, depending on which side of authority someone is on. Well, the common knowledge is that it is a good property of soldiers to be generally obedient. How such lowliness of mind can be achieved in the field of internal affairs, I leave you to your imagination, or I have no concern, depending on which state of authority someone is in. Well, as for the Minister of Justice, it is undeniable that he owns all the professional references: he is a professor and a doctor of law, he was also a constitutional judge. What worries me is that there is no clear vision of how to eliminate backlogs in the courts, which at the same time are still the biggest problem of our justice, and underlines only that this is a task that cannot be accomplished in one term. Even less has a vision of how and with what domestic legislative interventions to tackle a large number of actions by our citizens before the European Court of Human Rights, which also result in high compensation, which our country is ultimately obliged to pay. It is not clear how he imagines the introduction of the management type of the Presidents of the Courts, how to carry out the training of judges, which is now within the organisational competence of the Ministry of Justice and so on. Let me get this. There is also a lot of confusion as to how the new minister will achieve the objectives of the coalition treaty, but let us be surprised. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I think the new government is looking forward to some hard work. At the end of the 12 years of what we've been through, it's had consequences. The consequences will be in the case of finance, there will certainly be a need for a budget rebalancing, the consequences will be shown, as we have already heard, also in the European courts' compensation claims, which will hit the Slovenian country strongly in the pocket. Sadly, the former government did not allow herself to listen to any wise counsel from anyone else and rather seek solutions in their circle that, as we see, were not successful. So I hope that the new government will listen to someone else, not just its circle. After all, the coalition contract is written quite wide, so that we can see errors and at the same time we can see extensions for something good. One of these extensions, which we may not have seen immediately from the beginning, is also about Slovenian international action against Croatia. The former government removed Croatia in all areas and immediately after the establishment of the new prime minister, the former government ensured that the Croats would be given everything. It turned out to be different. For the first time, a firm stand was taken at some of the starting points. It is true that in the coalition contract this is written in a different way and yet I think that the inscription appears to also allow a sharper view of Croatia. Finally, the Stabilisation Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia was confirmed by the previous government, although it did not have the right to do so and although it would not be necessary to do so, on 1 May 2004, the two countries did not ratify the Agreement, so that Slovenia was not obliged to ratify this Agreement and, however, the previous government rushed and gave Croatia a case that would somehow strike Slovenia in the head. It's probably just to spoil the impression and weaken the bargaining positions. We certainly miss one thing in the coalition contract, which is extremely important in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. It's a so-called life sentence. We are the only ones in the world, so to speak, allowing judges who once sit in their chair to share the right for all eternity according to their private feelings or political preferences and where there is no need to look neither at justice nor at justice and at least at laws and legislation. I know a number of cases where the laws were not respected, where they were violated, where fundamental human rights were violated and where positive, civil and criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia was treated very ignorantly. We're missing this in the coalition contract. We were convinced that the new government, as one of the first ones, would say, the "pig" of the 12-year government would abolish this one of the major "pigs", this is the lifetime term of judges. There will certainly be problems in other areas. And, as I have already said, there is a wide range of views, which are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, for the Slovenian National Party in many ways unacceptable. This is not said, nor can we allow the possibility that this matter will change, that it is just a framework in which matters will be handled differently. A lot will have to be arranged, and when we read in the coalition contract that we will give all the support to minorities in Slovenia, we feel little pain. After all, we are Slovenians and Slovenes. Slovenian citizens and nationals of Slovenian descent are the last on the human rights scale and the last in the position if we compare both some of the marginal groups that the former government has carried by hand and has been rocking and singing lullabys, as well as both minorities, both Italian and Hungarian, who have actually tried to introduce certain articles through the previous government, which would explain certain areas that are now bilingual. We hope things will turn a little differently, and yet, let's wait 100 days. The previous government demanded a few hundred days before she said we'd tell them more. So let's wait, we'll see. I hope for the best, although we will not support or support the reception or confirm the government, I hope for the best, because it is almost difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister! Today, we will not endorse the proposal for local self-government and regionalism among ministers. However, the Prime Minister stressed in the introduction the particular attention to be given to this area. Unfortunately, the coalition treaty is completely different in this sense in concrete solutions. With regard to regionalisation, the introduction of another local level of self-government, it appears that there is no real concept. Future regions or provinces may come from not yet legally-verified regional development regions, perhaps not. As many as there are, it's not clear. There are no basic thesis on what powers they are supposed to have and how they should be financed, for example. It's very simple to say, regions or landscapes will be what they will be if they ever are. It's bad enough that the coalition doesn't have a clearer position here. The introduction also stressed that the position of the municipalities should be strengthened. In what? In jurisdiction, in financial power? We are witnesses to daily information about the threatening financial collapses in the municipalities. Money is insufficient for all the obligations that the congregations already have. On the one hand, the Coalition Treaty concludes that it is necessary to increase the work of municipalities by a third and, on the other hand, to warn future Finance Minister Dr. Bayuk that there is no such means to increase. And this is in an extremely sensitive phase, which is at the door when we have to draw funds from European funds. Although the municipalities have projects prepared, they do not have the resources to be involved in these projects. The Coalition Treaty does not provide a solution, but it only speaks of a desire to study and study. Unpreparedness in this area can cost us dearly. There is also a very dangerous thesis in the coalition contract, which opens the door wide to the establishment of new congregations. For it is written, in particular, and in the first place, if such will be the desire of the inhabitants and the inhabitants. In doing so, I ask, Mr President, whether the coalition will comply consistently with the legally prescribed criteria for their establishment, or whether they will be faced again in the future with the further fragmented Slovenian municipalities, which are only weaker in strength and stability. Unfortunately, I must conclude that in this segment, in the local self-government and regionalism segment, the coalition treaty is very weak, inconsistent and without all clear financial foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Next up is Miss Eva Irgle. Maybe someone made a trade? No, no, no. Then I give my word to Lady Mag. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister! I base my opinion and vote on the proposed ministerial team on the coalition contract and on what has been said at the hearings of candidates and candidates. Of course, I will only touch on a few specifics that I would like to draw attention to things that do not confirm the assurance that the new government will strive for the well-being of all or that it will follow the integration policy. Just taking into account both the sources written and spoken opens the first dilemma: what it will accomplish. Like in education, or what's written in the coalition contract, or what the candidate for minister said at the board meeting. That's not the only discrepancy. Let me draw attention to at least one more, but it sheds light on the whole strategy of the new government. In the introductory part of the coalition treaty, the underlying objectives - culture is elsewhere - are followed by more detailed measures by which the coalition will implement the announced strategy. And this is where the first embarrassment is, because in the planning of the budget, the framework of all public policies will be established by meeting the criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union. So, in other words, the economic fiscal effects will be those who will cut the canvas for culture, education, social and so on. What it means at the final stage is that the objectives are merely of a declaratory nature, since the already rather vague measures are forecasting their modification or abandonment, and this will be justified by the above-mentioned framework. The chapter on education and sport states that the coalition will provide equal opportunities for all. Of course, overcoming social, regional and other differences in education is also a European standard based on the Lisbon Strategy. Therefore, it is even more incomprehensible why there was no answer to the question of what the relationship between private and public education will be to the extent and method of financing. This raises a serious question as to the purpose of increasing private education if financed by public funds and how the quality of public schools at all levels will be ensured in such circumstances. The United List of Social Democrats advocates a quality lay public school because it provides the best possible opportunity for everyone. However, the test of strength cannot bear the principle of equal opportunities in education if we look at measures in other parts of the contract. The award of non-involvement of children in public school is the first distinction. Providing wages for domestic work is a measure that in a cultural environment in which caring for children and domestic work is generally only on women's shoulders and excludes the female part of the population from life-long education and thus from competitiveness in the labour market; reducing opportunities for promotion in the workplace, pay is lower and so on. In the Coalition Treaty, I was therefore looking for measures that were in any way related to the promotion of women in the labour market, and I found that there was nowhere to be seen the integration of the principle of equal opportunities between women and men into any government policy. After that, Slovenia will certainly stand out, as it is a civil rule, which obviously does not have the right of the country. If I say with the parable of art skating, the coalition will get a good grade for artistic impression, but the assessment of the technical value of the performance will still be nothing. How we will fare with regard to human rights has been made clear today. The view of the coalition's moral exclusiveism is respect for universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, and can indeed be declared moral erosion, but recently this view in the European Parliament has distracted elected commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Spending. As I speak for the first time today and also for the first time in the meeting, allow me to welcome you all together kindly, Mr Prime Minister, the candidates present for ministers, Members, Members, of course visitors, visitors and also representatives of the Seventh Force. We continue the debate. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Ljubo Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The statement by Prime Minister Janez Janša made it clear that the main objective of the government programme and the team of Slovenian ministers of prosperity is to benefit from the high economic growth and the high social gross product per capita. In order to achieve this, it is proposed that the country's reduced role in the economy and the transparent privatisation of the state sector are proposed. Such funds will not be used for current consumption, but a state reserve fund will be set up to allow for a new development cycle. Everything's nice and fine - but is it true? The reading of the coalition contract and what has been heard from the ministerial candidates' presentations already show no. He himself would touch on the health and healthcare sectors, which, due to demographic pressures and the promotion of health services, was announced by the Prime Minister as a result of a reform of the health insurance system, which must provide a stable healthcare system. In view of the exceptional criticism of the proposed health reforms of Minister Kebra and the government, we were looking forward to a more precise government health programme. However, the coalition treaty in this area did not bring new content. On the contrary! As we can see, the coalition contract in this part is inconsequential. It is based on promises and forecasts that the coalition will work, but not quantified, and even less supported by concrete calculations. We therefore expected the candidate for minister to complement the contents of the coalition contract with concrete data and forecasts by presenting it to the Health Committee. If the proposed name for the Minister of Health was no surprise, since the proposed candidate has proved to be a major critic of health reform in the past period, there remain unanswered questions regarding the projected health insurance reforms. Here I would particularly like to draw attention to the precise direction of the Prime Minister, who is talking about the necessity of health insurance reform, while the candidate for a minister has proposed a gradual European reform process with the broadest social consensus. I hope this does not imply a different concept of dynamics, called reforms, or its contents between the Prime Minister and the proposed candidate for a minister. It is also unusual that Dr Bručan, as a major critic of the health reform of current Minister Kebra in the next term, should carry out exactly the essential and most critical part of this reform, namely the abolition of today's payments and consequently supplementary health insurance. The coalition has committed itself to this because the coalition contract states that the scope of rights will not be reduced and that the coalition will provide a basket of rights in compulsory health insurance without payment on the basis of full solidarity. Of course, we'll keep the coalition to ourselves, if that's the case. In doing so, I must admit that I can agree with the strategic findings and the starting points of the programme, in the health field, and I can welcome the recognition of the commendation and the proposed continuation of the changes, with reference to the system of substitution of interchangeable medicinal products, the increased volume of investment resources, the increased efficiency and quality of health services by introducing groups of comparable cases. At the same time, I cannot help but overlook the fact that, with the announced solutions to the provision of rights, there is no clear solution to the provision of adequate resources to provide comprehensive healthcare without a current deficit in the healthcare sector. This issue becomes even more important when we look at the government's programme in other areas, the increase in some other public financial expenditure, and the overall reduction in the volume of public financial expenditure of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the question arises whether the pledges of the coalition contract to include a coalition for the category of socially weak insurers of services for which a premium secured through voluntary insurance is required will be included in the basket of compulsory insurance services, only empty promises? Such an intervention would increase the cost of compulsory health insurance by at least 7 billion. Therefore, it would be necessary to either increase the rate of contribution or provide for a transfer from the budget, which entails higher budgetary spending. The coalition, however, promises not to increase wage burdens or increase budget spending. Can we also make an empty promise to increase the number of doctors without an adequate response, in what way will the promise be fulfilled? With these facts in the coalition contract, the promise contained in the chapter on health is blurred, and this illogicality has not been answered by the candidate for the Minister of Health in his presentation and in the answers to Members' questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much for the debate, Mr Germich. Now he has the word Master Tomaž Štebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u60	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President and Mr President! Allow me to speak more about how the current government should act or how the former government should not have acted, especially because many of the initiatives of the previous government and the well-meaning proposals have been mediated, and she did not want to listen to them and so we were given a second chance. The main points that I am going to say in the debate are how to realize, which is evident to all that the government must act in a coordinated and cooperative manner. And the last and probably most important - it has to work fair and professionally. My debate will be a view from below. In a free conversation, we all know the problems, obstacles and unnecessary administration and how things need to be improved. When it comes to acting, however, we simply do not do things with sufficient commitment and efficiency because no one wants to expose himself, does not want to be a victim and so on. Persistence and real action will be important to apply what everyone should know is necessary. This is the biggest drawback of the governments and state administrations so far. In most cases there is no reason for incompetence, a lack of resources, but a lack of preparedness, a lack of authority and a substantial too often corrupt and clientelistic reason for non-action and sanctioning. Such simple action in the field will be possible for Mr. former Prime Minister, who is not present here at the moment, to carry out this government and to this Prime Minister, because he has already proved that he is doing what he thinks he is doing. I know, and I hope the whole government team is up to it. We'll see how the word meat becomes. Mr former President, who is not currently present, I am sure that the tasks already performed in the field will certainly have rapid and good effects. This will in fact cost nothing or reduce costs due to serious action and the consequences will be higher efficiency and savings, even if the government acts similarly from the top down and will be able to cut negative ties and harmful actions. The government has often acted completely out of harmony or taken unreasonable measures. Let me just give you three of these cases. To me, the most horrifying case is the so-called stickers on motor vehicles. This is an example of the use of the information society to control or replace in some way what was once, decades ago, it was impossible to do otherwise than to do physically on a motor vehicle. Today, however, every official and every police officer has access to the data, whether you have performed your duties and whether you have performed a technical inspection. Police officers across the coast, officials in their jobs, where they all have their computers. And there's a star flashing right away when some of the obligations in this regard have not been met. No, we've introduced a million hundred thousand stickers a year. This is one of the obvious inconsistencies between the departments or supposedly the reasons are completely different. This is a billion-dollar cost, considering only what we have to pay the owners of motor vehicles. Another more drastic case that I can't understand at all is location information. The State, the Ministry of Environment and Space, has stipulated that anyone who wants to start the construction process must obtain documents from the municipalities that have already been officially published. Under these published papers, the municipal official shall be signed and that is what is called the location information. However, the following thing, which does not concern information technology, is compensation for the use of building land. Here the former government did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision, which states that the taxation instrument is unconstitutional in this way because it treats different natural and legal persons in an unfair manner, contrary to the Constitution. Similar cases in the field of information technology and the functioning of public administration are still sufficient. The second thing I hear more than once today, quite inappropriately, gentlemen from the Slovenian National Party and also colleagues from Liberal Democracy and others, in my opinion, is the prevention of local autonomy, the establishment of municipalities, the regulation of unnecessary administration. All congregations, with the exception of what exceptions we are currently working on, are likely to have become more successful and have also progressed significantly faster due to their own efficiency and commitment. So far, the country has not been prepared to participate in the effective resolution of the problems of municipalities or systems that work, if any, should not interfere with the autonomy of local self-government. However, it is precisely by this prevention that it is fundamentally and unconstitutionally interfering with this autonomy. And this was also done by the State Assembly in its previous reference, for it prevented the establishment of municipalities and thereby violated the autonomy of citizens. The municipalities do not at all recognise the European title of acting as local authorities. Without proper powers, they should solve environmental and social problems. The motorways were taken care of, often by force, or the state did not adhere to the agreements. For waste landfills, serious co-financing of environmental projects and water supply, the State is involved in this by significantly insufficient resources and significantly insufficient effective cooperation to address problems in the construction and operation of these multi-community systems. The municipalities pay employees in kindergartens, and the government decides on pay terms and regulations; at least so far it has done so. At least a quarter of the budget revenue up to one-fifth is charged to municipal budgets. Let me finish. I hope and wish that this government would act fairly and professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Magus. It's a pain in the ass. I ask you, fellow Members and Members, to try to whisper as much as you can on the telephones as you can, because unfortunately you are disturbing your colleagues and colleagues in the debate. I now call to the floor to Mr Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome! It was said at the outset that the team received a positive opinion on all committees and that this was the last act of forming the executive branch. I hope this is true, although we have heard in the last days that there will be something else for these authorities to be personalised, and I know that these additional powers will not be elected by this national assembly. That's one of the concerns. Presentations and even today have said that we will strive to please countries, including countries where social awareness is not at all. And the forecasts of at least some of those who presented themselves as candidates for ministers were such that there will be a dismantling of existing systems, which are likely to need improvements rather than deterioration, whether it be social affairs, intergenerational alignments, culture or education. At the presentations, I must say that I was actually quite glad that this thing lasted a long time. I would be even more pleased if it lasted longer, even because it sat down at this time, and in these two months the joy of winning, of course, also the disappointment of defeat, and then this face of all those who are coming, much more precisely saw, perhaps a little too much. The presentations also showed that those who had been skilled in reading the coalition contract had been better evaluated. That this glaze, in fact, was the surface of what was most powerfully identified and, in fact, was unjustly sometimes one of the candidates who was a good match, but, of course, he was not a brilliant speaker, a little less appraised. Those who spoke a lot were better evaluated, but they did not give any answers. Also on the repeated questions, here, I don't know, I will anecdotally mention at least a menu for guitars - there may be some more talk about this today - or the issue of disabled persons and veterans of the war on Slovenia. We have also learned from the presentations that some ministers will play the role of observers, saying that they will observe what is happening in their department and then take this into account or not, but not be responsible for the department. That is why, of course, I am concerned if there is also a possible reverse position, that there will be some things that should only be observed, in particular taken into account and supervised. Of course, the ethical code, which has been praised today, is certainly a positive matter, but I think that there is more than a pile of everything that the legislation has already provided for, and I hope that the code is not just some form of recall and Achilles' fifth for ministers and for the minister. Today, too, the opposition’s desire to be constructive was expressed. I think the opposition will be constructive, but with us in Zasavje, at least as far as I have spoken to the people, we want the position to be constructive in particular. Of course, to the government, to all ministers, to the Prime Minister, I want a successful job. Today is also a holiday for all of us, a happy day of Slovenian culture, and we remember the disabled. They are celebrating their world day today. So much for the end, thank you very much, good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Gulic. Now I invite Mr. Bojan Kontic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! There are also several candidates from the point of view of expertise suitable for the performance of the ministerial function. Of course, differing views does not mean that the one who thinks the same is an expert and that all others are professionally contentious. This undisputedly leads to our division; all are good, all are bad. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that ministerial functions are mainly political. Of course, at the same time it must be added that expertise is certainly desirable. And when a Member or a Member supports the government's staff composition and its programme content, it also accepts political responsibility, which is constantly being tested in elections. My failure to support this government has therefore clearly signalled that I do not accept responsibility for its functioning. I had the opportunity to participate in the presentation of the candidate for local self-government and regional development and the candidate for health. The expertise of Dr. Andre Bručan cannot be disputed, even some of his predictions would be worth supporting during his ministry. Let me just mention his thinking on the systemic restructuring of long-term care, including at the cost of introducing a minimum new insurance. In any case, one of the toughest nuts for it will provide a sufficient number of doctors or their arrival from abroad. My conclusion that the new government will be inclined to introduce more privacy at the primary health level is even stronger after the candidate's presentation, although or precisely because he said he didn't know whether the 30:70 ratio in favour of healthcare homes was the right relationship. Above all, I expect the new government to arrange for the award of concessions at the primary level of health care, a way which is still up to date, which is not the right one, and means that the future concessionaire is putting pressure on the concessionaire to grant him the concession. The candidate for Minister and Local Self-Government and Regional Development has withdrawn herself, although I said in the introduction that the ministerial function is mainly political, I must add that at the same time there is an urgent need for knowledge of the area of candidacy, at least of the clear objectives and ways to achieve them. The withdrawal from the candidacy alone certainly does not reduce the responsibility of the applicant. Let me conclude with the conclusion that the new government will be inclined to establish new small communities and that it does not think about promoting the reverse process. And even more important, almost reliable landscapes in this mandate will not be, the process in which the development regions will grow into landscapes will be long and, above all, unpredictable, without changing the Constitution. I cannot vote for a government that will continue to crush municipalities without introducing provinces. However, there will certainly be an absence of candidates and candidates for ministerial posts, and, of course, I am thinking in this direction that the Code, which has been signed, may already be in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Kontic. The growing gap in the hall is, of course, quite suitable for Friday afternoon, but we have a few hours to work, so I suggest we put up with a little more. Now to the word I call on the Lord Joseph Jerovsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister and candidates for ministers! We are ahead of the last act of forming a team to lead Slovenia in the coming term. I believe that the period ahead of us is full of challenges, and in general this will be a difficult period. Even though we have a good and capable team ahead of us that is capable of leading Slovenia in the coming period. The problem for the new team stems from the fact that the state of the nation is not what the outgoing ministers show at recent press conferences. That is why and because of the difficult financial and economic situation of the country, because of the lack of social justice, because of the very inconsistent development of the country in the regional sense in the last ten years, because of the non-acting rule of law, in short, because of the bad heritage taken over by the new government, it might be justified for the new mandate-holder to address the people with dramatic words. Something similar, but of course less dramatic would be necessary, or justified, as he once did in the programming speech to the British people Winston Churchill when he said he could not promise anything other than sweat, blood and tears. Neither do our governments wait for pink days, pink times. In recent days, practically definitively textile industry has collapsed. In the ruins is the footwear and leather industry. And this is not only because of the globalisation influences, but also because of the timeless intervention and intervention and restructuring of the former authorities. The former authority relied too much on the possibility that Slovenia could live only on service activities, as if it did not realize that it was necessary to build on new products, on some material production, on added value and create new value. Today, we keep hearing about the lack of clarity, the lack of production of a coalition treaty, or opposition Members, constantly reminding us of areas that they think should be better mapped out or included. However, they are not prepared to conclude that the new government, the new coalition, had to include in its coalition contract many of the things promised by the previous governments, but failed. So it's essentially starting with severe backlogs, which I don't think are necessary. This, of course, makes a somewhat unworthy promise of the opposition's constructive stance, although I welcome, on the other hand, that the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest opposition party has accepted the new opposition role and has finally come before the national assembly. Nevertheless, I warn the future government, and future ministers, that they are extremely attentive to the mines set by those who have not accepted the loss of a monopoly power position. I hope that some hotheads have abandoned the idea of blocking new power through the financial and economic sectors. In fact, we were able to hear thoughts or ideas that some had to give new power through these centers of power to block as the auto-transporters once blocked Allende. I think that these thoughts are no longer that we can actually rely on a constructive attitude to respect the will of people who have chosen a different path and a different direction. I want to, and at the same time I am glad that many candidates for ministers have stressed at their presentations that the city of policy-making is here, in the National Assembly. And that they will act responsibly towards the National Assembly, and I firmly believe that this is also one of the guarantees for their success. The experience gained through this National Assembly can be transferred through the National Assembly to the government and ministers. Of course, I will support the entire government, and I wish it much success in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Jerovska. Allow me to explain or answer, in the meantime, the question that is being raised several times today, in public and also in the corridors, why there are no candidates for ministers among us, except those of course who are Members. This is the protocol rules of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and the practice has been different in the past. And by these rules, which I have before me, they wait in the parlour, wait for an election, and after the official election, they come to the hall. Here they will swear, here they will sign an oath, and then they will be able to speak to the National Assembly if they want to, and then they will go to the official photo deadline. Now I'd like to invite the Mag to the floor. Milana Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u68	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members, Madam Candidates and Gentlemen of the Chamber of the National Assembly, Mr Prime Minister! In my address, I would like to point out with the presentation of the public financial frameworks why it would be good not to endorse today's proposal by the Commissioner and that the mandate-holder, the new government, should urgently re-sit at the planning and programming table. There are two reasons: the first is an extremely problematic coalition contract, the second is the largely inadequateness of the candidates. I'll talk about the first one. Analysis of a coalition contract with some ordinary calculations and knowledge of public finance [[read: budget of the Republic of Slovenia]] shows it's a public-finance bomb. It is a collective desire that will increase and not reduce expenditure, from a minimum of 106 billion to a maximum of 370 billion per year. So, from about 53,000 to 187,000 to the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that each of us should give one month’s allowance for this. This is not feasible and not good. The realisation of the contract would create additional expenditure for 6% of gross domestic product and prevent the fulfilment of the criteria for taking over the euro and overrun the limits of public financial debt within a few years. Personally and in LDS, we estimate that this is not sustainable. Apparently, the desire came about because they did not properly analyze themselves, evaluated themselves, and so they did not discuss the individual requirements well. These have merged into a contract, as can be seen from the different style of writers of different chapters, different arrangements, not least the type of typographical, but also purely technical and other errors in the coalition contract. To the extent of their wish, this Treaty reminds us of the start of annual budget negotiations anywhere in the world, where, of course, in weeks and months of cleavage, if the government has a president and a minister of finance who knows what they are doing. Today, however, the final product was presented to the public - a coalition contract that is to be negotiated strongly the previous days. If this is how you accept the public financial framework, it will be bad. The treaty is meaningless because it is not feasible. Lawyers would say it is null and void, because otherwise it is a known subject of this treaty, it is a new government, the work of a new government, but the price of this contract is unknown. Economists would say that it is not realistic, and political scientists would be able to estimate that this treaty will be the basis of a conflict and conflict within the coalition. I am particularly sad that at the presentation before the Finance Committee, he did not know whether or not he should have spoken to the future legal guardian of public finances, a candidate for a finance minister. That was expected of him, by the way. Since he has recently acted as a supervisor of the budget and of Slovenian public finances in this National Assembly, the calculation of the effects of the public finance contract should be a cough for him. Why do I estimate that there will be a conflict? Because you now have a legitimate interest in requiring the realization of your wishes. However, the figures show that the good master cannot and must not realize this because excessive spending will lead to an increase in inflation, a decline in economic growth. This has been possible for the last two decades of socialism, but these times of creating black holes in public finances have passed about 15 years ago. The blanket is too short for all wishes to come true. As such, I am not surprised that the Prime Minister is thinking of establishing a supremacy in the form of a world of economic gurus. This is good, in principle good, it is a pity that they were not activated before the signing of the coalition contract. However, the idea of supremacy, the strategic world in particular, is a reflection of mistrust in ministerial candidates. This is especially so because we have today candidates and candidates for ministers, but at the same time, the coalition on a proposal from the SDS has passed legislation on the possibility that another minister and not one you will elect today may be responsible for an individual department after the President's decision. We will also have a government and cabinet of the Prime Minister with, at least in law, the number of State secretaries. These will form the only real cabinet of government, unfortunately only the few ministers we will vote on today. Your Honor! First of all, respectable electorates and voters! We've come to a new age. Let us see what these times bring, what they have written in a coalition contract, and how much it will cost us. The following effects are addressed in individual chapters. From approximately 7.6 to 15.3 billion reductions in public financial revenues due to projected tax reliefs. From around 41,200 billion to 112 billion due to the coverage of the salaries of municipalities for the financing of new employees in municipalities that will meet legal conditions, due to the new active employment policy and the anticipated anti-reform of the pension system. It is good that we decided on Monday at the College of the National Assembly to discuss this law on a regular basis. In the area of health care, between 5.1 billion and 42 billion tolls, depending on the extent of long-term care insurance available to all those in need and the extent of investment for R & D in health. In the area of higher education, science and technology from around 30 to 120 billion, depending on how quickly the amount of R & D resources from the current 1.5 to the coalition contract will be increased by 3.5% of GDP. In the area of local self-government between 10 billion and 66 billion depending on how quickly you will increase the appropriate consumption in municipalities by one third and, as a result, you will, of course, have to increase the balance from the state budget. In the field of external and European affairs, we have taken a decision with full consensus to preside over the Council of the EU, which will cost us from 3.5 billion to 6 billion in the next 4 years, depending on how wide this Presidency will be. In the area of defence from 9 to 13 billion, depending on how successful the administrative work for the Defence and General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be and how quickly the programme of basic development programmes will be integrated into the regular budget. And in the area of culture, between 3.7 billion and 6.2 billion, depending on how fast and to what extent NUK II will be built. Let me draw attention to the assumption that the calculation that would otherwise be expected to be presented by the government is a reflection of our understanding of the wishes recorded. Many things cannot be assessed because they are insufficiently known the intention of the applicants, but the signatories should know this and say this clearly before the Slovenian public today. Thus, we could calculate that the total increase is far beyond our capabilities because every citizen will have to give up up up to 187 000 dollars a year. This means that everyone should give one average Slovenian net salary. Since we are not all active - calculate - because we are not all actively employed, this means that employees should devote up to a quarter of the annual income. That's not possible. That is why I appeal to the coalition, to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Finance to ensure the responsible functioning of the government and to prevent inflationary financing of deficits. We were expecting a better program and a better team. A bad month ago, we asked quite a few questions on which the mandate-holder should be defined. If the answer is either a coalition treaty or a way of ruling, when, because of ignorance, we convene meetings where laws are to be dealt with in an emergency, then this is blocked before the substantive discussion, since the Commissioners have not yet given substantive guidance, then I am fighting for Slovenia until the next elections. Will we hear any answers to these questions today? I almost don't believe it, but it would be nice for voters and voters to hear clear directions on the plans, objectives and ideas of the actual governance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular on how and by whom. Mr. terminator, Madam Candidate, Madam Candidates! I suggest that you focus on the budgetary framework as soon as possible. The best review of this is in the Rapporteur explaining the 2005 budget. Take a good look at the spending rights already established by this National Assembly. Everything you've told us or thought you could promise us will simply not be possible. I wish you good, effective and not too long budget coordination. I would like you to be guided by this, that we will set up a better economy in Slovenia for a shade than you take when you replace governments. The program for this is written in the draft. It is called the "Development Strategy" and today, when you take over the government, you can download it from the website of the government's macroeconomic analysis office. When I spoke here a week ago, it was not clear at that time which parties would participate in the coalition, what relations between them will be, what a weighty and imagined development vision of a new government, how competent and experienced the team will be. We know that today. Such a coalition programme cannot be implemented. It is also clear to me that, above all, it is of how successful or unsuccessful an individual party will be in this fight to burden the Slovenians and Slovenians, the voters, especially the length of this coalition and the scope of the changes to this programme and this government, which we will confirm today. I cannot support the government myself because I do not want the citizens of Slovenia to be further in charge of finally obtaining an expanding, fiscal wasteful and irresponsible government in Slovenia. I'd be happy to take those words back if you could convince me otherwise. Even though it is a pre-new time, this pre-new time has passed for the new government and coalition, and it is up to you to blend into the European rational government and ensure rational governance with the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador of the Master of Squeak. I ask you kindly to respect Article 75 of our Rules of Procedure and do not interrupt the sitting with melodies. Mr Roberto Battelli is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Dr. Pavlich. For the first time it happened that the basic document defining the programme of a government contained a point devoted to the problems of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. That's very good. Because these interdisciplinary issues are right to be the subject of the attention of the executive branch. National minorities are a fact in the Republic of Slovenia. The State of Slovenia, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia protects and is the world's main reference point for Slovenia. This is not only logical and self-sustaining, it is also very right. However, Slovenia is also made up of differences in terms of culture and languages. Above all, from two indigenous national communities, it is Italian and Hungarian. Some believe that one of the speakers earlier spoke of the disbandment of Slovenians in Cyprus, Isola, and Piran. Well, apparently, some people still think that the more bombastic when it's a lie, the easier it gets. This is not the case, of course, and it is not the case where responsible work is done and performed. Some facts. In the year I was born, this is about 10 years after the war, according to the Institute for Recent History, there were over 30,000 Italians living in Koper, Isolah and Piran. Twenty-seven thousand left in those years. From 1992, from 1991 to 2002, Italians were down 23.7%. Hungary for 22%. In ten years, it has been said since Slovenia's independence. Koper, Izola and Piran now have somewhere between 60 and 70 thousand inhabitants, I don't know exactly, Italians who declare themselves to be such, but 1840. Never so little since there's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Robert Battelli. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished candidates for Ministers and Minister, fellow Members. Before I said what I intended to say, however, I would briefly stop in the last debate that my fellow Member had presented, still the current minister and the man would have thought he was a respected Member of the opposition for 12 years. The debate was similar to that of someone who has been in opposition for 12 years, who has been a long-standing opposition to the existing government and this government, which we do not even have, which we are discussing today, has been in power for 12 years. This made me sick when I listened to his discussion. Well, let's move on. In accordance with the procedure envisaged for the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this honourable assembly today is ahead of the task of considering the proposal of Prime Minister Janez Janša to confirm the proposed ministers and thus to form the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the elections two months have passed, and during this time, discussions have been held on the coalition of parties, which will manage the country over the next four years. A coalition of four parties that signed the coalition agreement was concluded, and on this basis the Prime Minister has chosen his ministerial team, which is now giving us a hearing and confirmation. This is a government coalition, which means that in the selection of individual ministerial candidates, the Prime Minister has previously consulted with coalition parties who have proposed their candidates in relation to the election results. On this basis, we now have before us the proposal of a ministerial government team, which is a coordinated proposal, a coalition proposal, followed by a four-party coalition, which, of course, each, in relation to its political power expressed in the elections, also bears its part of the responsibility for the work of this government. A few days ago, all proposed ministerial candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies of the National Assembly, where they defended their programmes and their vision of managing ministries for the next term of office. Everyone has successfully carried out the presentation and received support from the parental committees. And the logical consequence of the process of appointing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far is its confirmation at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Last but not least, today's appointment of the entire ministerial team is the realization of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which they expressed in the elections. Nevertheless, allow me to respond, however, to some of the responses and comments that have appeared in the media in recent days, especially in the past days, and also to the presentations of ministerial candidates before the competent working bodies of this respected State Assembly. The discussion was about everything possible, and in particular the critical comments concerned the competence and expertise of individual candidates, as well as their past behaviour and even their alleged inappropriate statements in the past periods. Speaking of professional references to individual candidates, we can then find out that all candidates are highly qualified, with a number of candidates with the highest possible professional qualifications, represented by the Doctor of Science. All of them also have years of professional experience, with successful work opus behind them. So from this point of view it is certainly clear that the lack of professional references is not in place and is certainly unfair and disrespectful to candidates. However, I agree that the proposed candidates are probably not the only ones who are, according to their expertise, eligible for ministerial posts. I believe that even more skilled people could be found in a wide range of areas. Done. However, we know that ministerial work is not just professional work, but it is also political work in many ways, or, above all, political work, which, of course, must be related to professionalism. Political work means that the Minister, who runs and directs the work of the expert team within the Ministry, must implement a government programme, within which the programme of the individual ministry is also being implemented. And this programme is coalitionly coordinated and also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. So in his work, the Minister is committed to implementing the coalition contract, which means, of course, that it is not enough for the Ministry to manage the relevant expertise and to manage the area covered by it, but it is only a prerequisite for the quality implementation of the political programme to which he is committed as Minister. And since it is a coalition government, it is understandable that all coalition parties participate in the formation of the ministerial team, of course in relation to the political power achieved in the elections, and of course the Prime Minister of the proposed candidates of his coalition partners chooses those candidates who meet the criteria I have also spoken about. We also sometimes listen, if, this and this is inappropriate, because he once did this or that, or said that or that, and because of these past actions, he cannot become this or that, or his appointment to a function, so it would not be appropriate. Today we even listened to someone in a debate who said that someone just because he was in military service shouldn't have become a minister. And that is what those who have always said, I would say, full of mouths about tolerance for fellow humans and tolerance for different things. Someone's supposed to be expelled here because he worked in the army. Therefore, in this case it is not an assessment of the expertise, experience, ability, if you want, but an assessment of the belongings of a group of people, in this case the military, which, according to them, means that you should be excluded from accessibility to the ministerial function. We have also listened to similar observations in the current reference to this National Assembly when we decided on the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. If you think someone who once said something, and that wasn't appropriate, that's why they can't be elected. In doing so, those who object do not even verify exactly what it really was, but simply satisfy themselves by tailoring in their own way what was written, regardless of how it was written, whether it was taken from the context and so on. It's as if everything that's written somewhere is also real, as if we don't know that there's a lot of things written anywhere, especially when it comes to yellow tabloids, that's often incorrect. And this has also happened in the evaluation of the candidates we are talking about today. Therefore, flat-rate and unverified information is used as evidence of a claim that seeks to discredit an individual. Even if, in fact, in some cases, it was that someone once did this or what was inappropriate or that he actually said something that was wrong, it could not be any reason for him to be mutilated for the rest of his life. After all, we may have all done or said something that was wrong, and later we ourselves found out and may even have regretted our actions or spoken words. Should this cause us to be permanently mutilated? Hasn't the time of verbal delinquency long gone by? Does it not matter more what we are doing today, what we are doing, and how we are doing today? We are not as determined in advance, but over time, based on a variety of influences and achievements, we constantly shape our view of the world and our views on various social issues can, of course, be changed, we have this right. Therefore, it is not acceptable for some to assess the acceptability or inadmissibility of individual candidates after what a decision someone once made or what someone once said. This is even more unacceptable when it comes to flattened and unverified things or to torn words from a context that critics then abuse to reach wrong or wrong impressions among people. And there's something else I'd like to say. On Monday and Tuesday, all ministerial candidates presented themselves on the competent working bodies. They presented the Ministry's work programme for the next four years, as well as their views on various areas and on the various issues related to work and decision-making at ministries. As we may have heard or been familiar with the presentations made by individual candidates, these were more concrete programme views and programme objectives within those programme starting points that President Janez Janša has presented when he was elected Prime Minister and are also based on the coalition agreement itself. The fact is that much of this programme is different from what has been envisaged so far within the coalition government at the head of the Liberal Democracy party. Of course, not everything is different. What has been good and has in practice been confirmed is also included in the programme of the future government coalition. But what wasn't, and it's not that small, and it needs to be changed. And what and how to change things for the better is the programme objective of the coalition and ministerial candidates have also presented, among other things, programme changes in the area of their resources for which they run. The way they imagine things will be handled differently. It is interesting that quite a few of the views of the opposition Members have been directed against exactly what the candidates have predicted will have to be changed. I am not surprised by the discontent of former ministers who have been behind their actions during their term of office. However, they should also understand that elections have taken place that have led to political change. And these changes have deprived them of the power to make decisions and to lead the country on their own ideas, but they have given them the power to make decisions. And this is not about some academic debate about how someone will be as reasoned and rhetorically as possible to defend their position. Although of course anyone can do this, this is about the attitude of citizens of Slovenia to power. Slovenian citizens have made it very clear in the elections that the authorities so far do not trust because they have been disappointed with it. Because their conduct was wrong because the government did not meet their expectations because the management of the state and its assets was not rational and economic and not ultimately because individual high-ranking state representatives did not, by their personal example, arouse people's confidence in their integrity. That's why people in the elections decided to change. That is why people have decided to replace the power to be assumed by those who have been entrusted by the citizens in the elections and thereby have shared that trust. On this basis, the National Assembly has already followed the will of the people and has, by this will, already elected a prime minister or prime minister. And today, of course, we still have to decide on the proposal of the Prime Minister to confirm the proposed team of ministers or thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And today's confirmation will then also mean the realization of what the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia said in the elections themselves. In the elections, not only did 90 Members not directly elect, but they also indirectly announced what kind of government they wanted and who should be in charge of this country for the next four years. Not to be too long, I am probably already, of course, the newly elected Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I believe will be elected today, I want much success and, to the greatest extent possible, the achievement of the objectives set out in the programme and the coalition agreement. Finally, the population of the Republic of Slovenia, which has expressed its expectations in the last elections, expects it to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovačič. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler requires a replica. At this point, I would only point out the essence of Article 70 that a replica is possible if the debate was misinterpreted or misinterpreted, and that it is, of course, counted according to the interpretation of this Article in the debate. Is this the case? Then I'll allow the replica. Article 70 states that a Member with a name must be appointed. It doesn't say that anywhere. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u74	I got to know myself from this appointment because I'm the only one who's ever discussed it. And that's all I want to say. I wasn't talking about any verbal delicacy, and I wasn't talking about it or what the candidate would ever say wrong or do. I cited the report of the Commission, the National Assembly Commission for the Control of the Work of Security and Intelligence Services, and from here I summarized two findings, which are written in black and white. That there was an excess of powers and that it exceeded the normal framework of action of military diplomatic representatives. And on this basis, I have expressed my doubts about the competence and appropriateness of such a candidate, and I insist on this. We ask you to tell the country where, say, the Ministry of the Interior has been appointed a soldier. I was talking about a soldier, not someone who was alone by accident in military service once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Let me say again that this would be absurd if, of course, we requested or allowed a replica only when a Member or Member is called by a name. Then, of course, the Member could be described in a graphic manner to the smallest detail, so that everyone would know who it is, but of course the replica would not be allowed. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] This practice is not recorded anywhere. [[...]] I now invite Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm going to be very short because there's not much time available. Initially, I would like to touch on the words that the speaker put forward in the presentation of the position of the Group. In fact, he said that the coalition contract was a list of coalition partners' wishes. I would correct it in this part and say that the coalition contract is a list of some urgent corrections that reflect errors or shortcomings in existing programmes. It is true, though, that many shortcomings or weaknesses are overlooked and that they will evidently continue or that they will mean some continuity of the work of the previous coalition. But it is also true that the things that are written, at least in my opinion, in a variety of parts or at least in the area that I was covering, are too illusory. For example, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, on this "hearing" I was, the program is set up very optimistic, which is nice and right. Reduction of unemployment, activation of inactive unemployment, control of employment in black, implementation of public works and other forms of active employment policy, equitable regional development in employment, etc. etc. However, it was not possible to track the content of these programming guidelines from the presentation of ministers or candidates for ministers. But as long as they follow the guidelines they set themselves and are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, of course we will be happy and can only say sincere congratulations at the end of the term. What is worrying about this work is that there is no mention of youth issues anywhere, at least in the work concerning employment. Well, there it is, but as far as the broad area of youth issues is concerned, I haven't seen it or got an explanation on my question. In the broadest sense, social benefits are based only on social benefits. NGOs are expected to move from the country's cover to the market. However, the fact is that NGOs today mostly cover the social sector. And what really bothered me was the ideological concept of family. What it means, I quote, is a political attitude towards parenthood and family through media coverage to create a positive attitude towards the public towards the family. What does the gradual introduction of family work rights mean? What does a 20% child supplement mean for a child who is not in public school? There is fear, or I wonder, that these are guidelines that constitute a radicalization of the status of women and mothers. And let me finish with the passport that was presented in the presentation by the coalition partners from DesSUS. Just a word for the end, please. A poor traveler who actually raises doubts, let me sum it up. Probably not all the points of the coalition agreement will be realized, but not all of them are. Were you, in fact, not among the gentlemen from DeSUS in previous coalition agreements?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u77	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your time. Please, we're trying to stick to the time frame. I invite Mr Daniel Krivec to the floor. He's quitting. Mr Jožef Školč is next. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Instead of Mr Aloyz Sok, Mrs Marjetka Uhan applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, everyone here in the hall! I believe that the government will take responsibility for leading the Slovenian state and is aware that it is behind the voters and their expectations. Underneath a bad roof, the whole building suffers, a real saying. A lot of programs, tasks are in the works. So the government will continue. But what kind of government would it be if we didn't have a program, visions, plans, if we didn't want to make things better? It's not all in the money either, as you're asking where you're going to take it. There's a lot in the will, too, in the knowledge. It is necessary to listen to the general public and to take its opinion into account. I will give an example of a nine-year school in primary school, the sense of the level of instruction, the external examination of knowledge, the number and content of the original subjects, the rise of bureaucracy in school. This is what civil society, as well as parents of children in education, is asking questions about, and at the same time teachers are not satisfied with the current concept. In addition to all of this, violence is spreading among young people, suicides, and teachers warn, as do parents, that they are powerless in their upbringing. What our society will be, depends primarily on the upbringing of young people, because young people become fathers, mothers, citizens. The government will therefore give careful consideration to school education as well as to the content and choice of subjects. As for the state treasury where you will be taking and the programmes directly linked to this cash register, I think our candidate is also asking himself and there are legitimate concerns that it will not be possible to fulfil the coalition contract because you have emptied the cash register too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam Members of the Uhan. In fact, it is Mr Jožef Školč's turn now. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I would also like to welcome the proposed government, and I do not see it here at this time, but in any way. On the one hand, on the other hand, the written programming backgrounds of individual candidates and governments, on the other hand CVs, on the other hand, of all these candidates before the committees, do not provide a basis for denying that government’s competence in advance and beyond. It is certainly not possible to expect all candidates and candidates to know all the details of the resources they will run. That is why I think it is quite appropriate for this hundred-day period to expect answers to unanswered questions from all the people who will swear today. So let's wait. However, there are questions that we can call civilisations that do not need any special introduction into ministerial work, nor do they need research into regulations or observation of situations. Such questions need clear and immediate answers. One of the issues I would like to draw attention to is the question of artistic freedom and freedom of choice at all. Candidate Simoniti, said he was a candidate for the Minister of Culture, so we asked what he thought about the requirement to prohibit the reading of Zupan's Guitar Menu. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] reading, Mr Jerovšek, ears need to be ready to listen. [[..]] It's about a book that was written for senior reading. Of course, this is not the only inappropriate book appearing on this unwritten index. And what did the candidate say? "It's my position, so I didn't even go into it. I don't really have a problem with that sort of thing. But I think that young people are sensitive in some subtle years...... then it is incomprehensible, "in fact, it is necessary to allow some things to be introduced to them and some things in school content are probably inappropriate. I don't think we'd come anywhere here. What book do you think? The answer is this Minuet, and let's get someone else." This means a shocking agreement that this book is inappropriate. Like Mr Jerovšek, I found it difficult on the committee to believe that these kinds of pursuits against the book could be fixed by someone coming out of the culture round of the New Magazine who is sensitive to all these issues. Let us be concerned that Zupan’s literature has been uplifting spirits in its time. Let us be concerned that Zupan paid with a fat prison sentence for his writing and his actions. Let us also be concerned that his works were required by the guardians, both between the parties and between the fighters, that this is possible in 2004, and that it is not possible to have a clear view of this department, which is in some way fundamental to the issue of the defence of artistic freedom, is difficult for me to understand. So I ask the Prime Minister whether he shares these kinds of evading views of the candidate? Did we have a clear and unequivocal view of these issues together in the 1980 ’ s? Finally, it would be expected that these issues were consumed in the 1990s and, last but not least, these issues and these kinds of actions were the ones for which I hope we all agree, which have established a space of freedom, democracy in Slovenia and not hope of a single country. Are we going back?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Scholch. Mr Jerovšek, was your statement misinterpreted and misunderstood, not a statement by the candidate for minister? The fact that you were mentioned is not relevant to the interpretation of Article 70. [[The ad from the bench.]] The reasons for the replica are not fulfilled. I invite Mr Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, the Honourable Prime Minister! Given that opposition Members are looking and stressing, of course, by their criteria - I stress, by their criteria - only weak points and weaknesses in the competence and abilities of individual ministerial candidates and in the programming points, guidelines and objectives of the coalition programme, which is expected and legitimate, we are expected to point out the opposite. I myself do not want to judge individual candidates in this way, because I want to express my thoughts through a different dawn than, for several reasons. Firstly, I believe that this evaluation is based only on personal criteria, assessments and conclusions. What are the actual criteria? Is it education, work experience, sympathy or dissatisfaction of an individual candidate? Maybe some other professional references? Or perhaps the criteria of some individuals from the government and former coalitions who may be overestimating their abilities and expertise - this is also reflected in some of the poor results of the government's past, unfulfilled promises and tasks - have also shown results in the elections in causation. Because I do not agree with the opposition's statement that most candidates do not have their own vision to quote the objectives and programming guidelines of the coalition programme, that they do not have enough knowledge to question their abilities and the like. Please, my fellow Members and colleagues, do you imagine that each candidate would have his own programme, his own vision and his strategic and programming goals? Maybe it was a practice in the past. I believe, however, that, as demonstrated by the ministerial candidates at the presentations on the home committees, the basic starting point of the ministerial work is the coalition programme defined by the programme, strategic and development objectives. As a result of this, the resulting benchmarks must be operationalised and implemented by each department minister. The ministerial role is not the role of an expert who knows everything and knows everything, but it is my strong belief that the role of a combination of professional and political leadership depends on the specificity of the individual ministerial department. It must have the necessary expertise, targeted orientation, systematic, leadership, organisation, coordination, motivation, and more. Above all, it must be able to attract and motivate the managerial and professional potential in its portfolio. And lastly, it must have an enormous sense of political diplomacy. The club that candidates have not yet been able to show all their skills in practice, can we be sure today that candidates do not have these abilities? And there's something else about the expertise of the candidates that has been talked about recently and even today in this National Assembly. For me, there is no expert in ministerial work in the fields, such as very problematic, economics, that the Minister is a university professor, or a doctor of science who has teaching practice, and scientific research results and activities, but does not have any work experience in industry and industrial economic experience. In my opinion, expertise is a set of theories and practices. My view that the Minister must also have leadership skills and adequate work experience would be so much easier to confirm if Members were to obtain data on the number of employees in individual departments, in a narrower and broader sense, in some cases this number goes strong over thousands. Third time. Despite all the foregoing, I can also stress a lot of positive things about those candidates who, after presentations on the parental boards, I was present on my own at six, pleasant and positive. Of course, according to my criteria, I emphasize, by my criteria. However, they also convinced a large majority of the other Members. Finally, I would like to remind you, dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, that three weeks ago, the current Prime Minister, and then the candidate for a term of office, presented his vision and programming guidelines and objectives in his presentation address here, in the National Assembly, and on this basis received almost two-thirds of the support of this assembly, and thus the confidence that he is able to do so. He was therefore given a mandate to form his working team, together with coalition partners with full responsibility, which is his closest co-workers, Minister. So this National Assembly has given him this authority and also the responsibility, responsibility in this mandate, ahead of this National Assembly, and in particular to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that this will be an expert, working, playful, responsible, honest, political wise and public friendly team, both whole and individuals. If Members were given signed codes of ethics on the table today, they could be even more confident that this would be the case. Dear Prime Minister! There is a difficult and responsible task ahead of you and the minister's candidates, and there are great challenges. I believe in this team, so I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Ljubeljska. It is now up to Mr Aurelio Juri to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I won't surprise anyone if I tell them that I won't give my vote to the team you're proposing, Mr. President. Not because I belong to the opposition and follow the logic of the situation simply because I estimate that it is not competent enough, far, far away from the predictions you have made to draw it up according to professional references. And I, like Shirtz's colleague, wonder if that famous pool of 500 or 600 experts has dried up. In predicting good governance and a bright future for the country, you were somewhat insecure by listing a bad legacy, which was a little breathtaking after an alibi for a possible failure. But what at least convinces me of the quality and perspective of the team was the presentations of candidates and candidates on the committees. If I just stop in the field of foreign policy. The tasks relating to the OSCE Presidency and the EU Presidency are, despite the substantive and financial constraints of the general public, supported and therefore nothing problematic. The same applies to the implementation of European membership. However, I am not entirely satisfied that our greater engagement in Iraq or the deployment of our soldiers and police officers to that battlefield, which I think will be open for a long, long time, is out of the question. There's too many indictees who don't speak for it. A fourfold increase in the capacity and skills of the army to fight outside the NATO area is planned, and you have never condemned the American aggression against Iraq, even when it turned out to be based on lies. The new U.S. ambassador is counting on your cooperation towards this crisis. I want to hear from you the promise that as long as the occupation of Iraq takes place, Slovenia will not be there. What I am completely concerned about is that, in the most sensitive issue in relations with Croatia, this is a border, I do not see a sign of progress, on the contrary. Thank you for the valuable definition you have given in your presentation, that you will address the problems with our southern neighbour, not with confrontation, quote, "but with cooperation and strategic partnership" does not match the persistence of old positions regarding sovereignty over disputed territories and the lack of any idea of how to take a step further. Even so, and this is a compromise proposal for the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, you leave because it is not seen in the coalition contract. The idea of a mixed historical commission may be interesting, but believe me, the tension between the fishermen in the Gulf of Piran and the police who control and protect them will not be eliminated. Incidents at the border happen not necessarily because someone wants them or plans them, but from many banal conflicts of interest in using and cohabiting in the same space. It is therefore imperative that the delimitation be finally determined and determined as soon as possible, and if the agreement on this between the affected parties is not possible, someone else should decide. If international arbitration is not feared, and with this assessment, Mr President, I agree, let us begin with appropriate activities immediately, because time is running out, passions are becoming, and we have seen this in the past, increasingly less manageable, entry into Schengen is approaching, while Croatia is also strengthening its sovereignty where we may still be counting on it to be ours. When it turns out that these concerns were too much, then I'll give you a round of applause, and for now, he won't give my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much to Ambassador Aurelius Yuri. Mr Pavel Gantar has also been admitted to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There's not much time, so I'll be quick. I'll limit myself to just one, maybe two points. What worries me, of course, when I present this government, is that developments in the formation of this government show that the difference between formal and informal political power in decision-making in the executive branch can certainly be increased. On a formal level, we know how things work. Here is the power placed in the hands of ministers, governments, to simplify. The Prime Minister has already presented the list of candidates today and has previously taken an unusually large distance from the candidates he is proposing. Some kind of a gap between him and them. At the same time, a world is being set up that is supposed to have some superministerial authority that would correct, as it were said, the decisions of ministers. I am therefore afraid that formal power and influence will be concentrated in bodies that are not subject to democratic control and transparency and that responsibility will be assumed by people, ministers who will not have the right power. If such a relationship is very large and such a imbalance is very high, the price paid by this government and, of course, also by voters, voters, will be too high. I therefore hope that such a distinction between formal and informal political power in the executive branch will not be established or pointed in the direction indicated by the latest events. I would like to make one more comment, and this is a comment on the topic of constructive opposition. Today it was said how we imagine constructive opposition. I wrote this 20 years ago. The constructive opposition is not only that there are well-intentioned comments on the existing proposals made by the government to make comments on the edge, that it is only trying to improve and additionally marginally here and there to complement what the government or the ruling majority is proposing. Anyway. This is an integral and normal part of a process. I also imagine constructive opposition so that, of course, we will support all that is good, what we think is good for all of us and what can be done. But in fact, the constructive opposition is constructive when it proposes alternative projects when it proposes different projects when it proposes the choice of residents and residents. Our role is to have every day of the week, whenever this government meets, whenever the National Assembly meets to know that they have a choice. In this I see the constructiveness of our role as the opposition. And for a little while. Many times it has been said that this is a new beginning. It is new, but, of course, it must be realized that out of the four parties in this new coalition, two have already participated in the previous. I've been in politics for more than ten years, so that's all I can say; beliefs are changing, not numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u87	Thank you, Dr. Gantar. I would like to take the floor to invite a Member of Parliament, Mag. Branca Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. With everything we've witnessed today, I'd like to point out the following. Today is a cultural holiday, today we celebrate the birthday of the great poet Francet Prešern, today at the celebration of the holiday in the town of Kranj mag. Rudy Sheligo has been declared an honorable citizen, a man who has greatly helped us today to have a separate Slovenia to witness the setting up of a new democratically elected government. Today is the day we place this democratically elected government. That's what's left of history. Look, the election of the Prime Minister herself has been extremely symbolic, for it has been a symbolic fall in the last remnants of the Berlin Wall, an irrevocable end to the ever-renewable triumphs of politics based on the spread of fear and prejudice. You remember all the past political struggles. If Janez Janša wins, you'll lose that and that. Today, when we witness this, we're talking about pension withdrawals, pension coordination. That's the truth. Therefore, the decision of citizens and citizens on 3 October is already an outstanding contribution to the development of political culture in Slovenia. Politics teaches that each policy is based on values and that a policy that does not respect values or is based on false values, a policy that leads to totalitarianism. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we have quite a negative experience. The setting up of a new government will be a remarkable step, as has been shown in the review of the coalition treaty, especially in the hearing of candidates for ministers. When we evaluate a value-added policy, it is certainly best to come from action, from decisions. And when we look at the past period, we see that for the previous set, it was a priority to buy a government plane, that is, the real prestige of ministers, their travel around the world, and for the new government it will be a priority to upgrade a hospital for cancer patients, and paediatric hospitals, that is to say for the youngest, those for whom we all like to call our future. Thus, the preservation of human life and health is more important to the new government than the prestige of the authorities. This represents valuable, once again, remarkable progress, the experience we will be witnessing in the coming years. See, it is particularly important to make it possible, including through direct transfers, to be a constant, as has been repeatedly required to ensure that the constitutionally fulfilled one is consistently determined that every citizen, every citizen, always has the right to be informed of political developments in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. How important this is also for the development of a political culture, let me base it on the 3 October event. On election night, people could see directly on television how some of the faces of some politicians who had been high all those years ago, puffed up, suddenly became extremely long. And this political experience is important because people have realized that there is no avant-garde in Slovenia, that a political scene cannot be imposed on those who are a priori professional and smart and called to lead others, and on some black opposition that is here just to annoy and sometimes protest on the street when there is nothing left to do. It is now clear that we are all the same and again this is what makes it possible to move the political game to become normal, European comparable, a game of programs, arguments and people like their hosts. Therefore, the establishment of this government is a historic event. At the same time, this also provided the basis for a single message. For a message that is not only true for this government, but for all future Slovenian governments. This is that any authority, once it forgets, who has chosen it, when it becomes its own purpose when it succumbs to the puff, will then be no longer the authority after the next election. I know that for some in this room it has been a very bitter experience and we have seen sometimes also emotionally colored reactions because of this. But from this point of view, this role was in some way historic and represents a valuable journey, I stress once again, not only this one, but all future Slovenian governments. In the end, there's something else about the traps. You've all talked about one. The fact is, of course, I come from Kranj, where we are currently facing a disaster at the Planika factory. In the field of economy, the situation is not nearly as rosy as anyone would like. The fact is that Slovenia is not prepared enough to go to the European Union and that it is the fault of those who have missed these preparations and that this will be the journey that the new government will have to take into account in its decisions. Politically, however, there may be an even greater trap of constant insurrection and revival of the ideological struggle. To what sometimes absurdities, at least from my point of view, this leads, to quote from the introductory words of one of the opposition Members, "there are also out-of-school educational, sports and educational activities among the selected subjects, and the coalition contract does not exclude the verukkah in the parishes". Yes, I'm sorry, but if the coalition treaty were to exclude a believer in the parishes, personally those governments who would sign it would not support it, because it was unethical, contrary to the European foundations of culture, values and I claim to be unconstitutional. If the person who said that may have been wrong or was thinking something else, I cannot help but listened very carefully, and of course I also had to print a magnetogram. That is why, of course, I would like to point out that this government will also have to find answers to all the questions that have been avoided so far, but I consider what is clear from the coalition treaty to be European values, and that is why I am concluding. It is high time that Slovenia finally gets a European comparable government. Let me just say that I truly regret being a magician. Rudy Sheliga and Dr. Pučnik, who have helped so much, are no longer with us to do this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u89	Thank you, Mag. Grimes. The replica of your statement being misinterpreted. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. He quoted a statement related to the Verrouk. I have to say that he was quoting incorrectly because the content was clear that it was about linking the selection items and their classification into the school curriculum or not. This section also mentions a believer in the parishes as the elective subject of the school program. Anyone who can speak Slovenian will read it clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Run. I would like to take the floor to invite the Member of Parliament, Dr Matey Močovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Mr Prime Minister. I have read with interest such a coalition contract that you presented as of course I have also seen the composition of the government. In fact, I will not comment in detail on the composition of the government, because the Prime Minister has already described it as not optimal. Here I fully agree with him and, of course, I do not oppose him. However, as far as the coalition agreement is concerned, it is important to stress what has already been said many times today, but I think it is necessary to say again. The public financial consequences of this coalition agreement are unknown. The new future finance minister is not here, we asked him several times at the hearing how much will be the promises contained in this coalition contract. But he freely declared, "I don't know, I don't know." If you go to the store, you know about what you're gonna buy, you know about how much it's gonna cost, how much you got in your wallet. But the future finance minister simply says, "I don't know how much the promises that are written in this coalition contract will cost." The state's highest cashier in this country, the future, doesn't know that. Nor are the priorities clearly recorded in this Treaty, even though you promised to do so. For the first time in the history of this country, the future Minister of Finance has signed a coalition treaty and for the first time in the history of this country has no idea how much these promises will cost. You talked and it says in there that you're going to reduce public spending by 2%, you're going to restructure spending by 2.5%, together it's 270 billion -- but not by a word, in any way. If we sum up these promises, as has already been said today, it amounts to about 380 to 390 billion tolars - but not with a word, how you will reduce public spending and where you will take it. What's most interesting is economic growth. Economic growth depends on living standards in this country. This coalition agreement states that order will be higher than in the European Union. I now ask you publicly, Mr Prime Minister, what is the order? One percent, two, five, is the order for you ten percent? It doesn't say that. In the Coalition Treaty of 10 November, you said that in 2008 Slovenia will achieve 80% of the European Union's development. If this is the case, it means that economic growth will be higher by only one percentage point than the growth of the European Union economy, which is significantly less than it has been so far. According to the projections made in Slovenia's development strategy, Slovenia should be around 86% of the European Union's development in 2008. Maybe someone will say, "It's only about numbers." But if we put these numbers into concrete money, it's 200,000 tolars per head of every inhabitant of this country, from baby to pensioner! That's my point. Let us write down the measurable goals so that we know how successful you are at the final stage. Before the elections, you were talking about rationalizing the state administration. What's this rationalization? That instead of 14 ministries, we now have 15 ministries with a department? One Minister more and one Secretary of State more! If this is rationalisation, then I respectfully ask you to stop these rationalizations. Then you said "it's not true, because it's not true, we've reduced the number of State secretaries," but you didn't say that the previous government wanted to professionalize the state administration, that instead of state secretaries they are now heads of Directorates who will be elected on public calls, and that they are actually two political functions, the Minister and the Secretary of State after the new - after the new one minister more and one state secretary more. When we talk about the head of the Directorates, who will be elected to the public calls, it actually happened at the time of the negotiations, in fact, when the president of one of the coalition parties who negotiated with you agreed or promised us two more seats of the Directorates and that in the television cameras. You've never denied it. Here I ask you whether the subject of the coalition negotiations was also a trade with the Directorates, leading the Directorates, given that it is an extremely professional place that is not political. So who's deceiving? The next thing I would like to point out is, and I will conclude slowly, because, of course, there is not enough time, you have talked about improving the business environment for businesses, but in this coalition contract, neither in your plans have you mentioned in any way. In your opening act, you were talking about setting up a commission. It is quite clear that no commission can critically evaluate all administrative rules, laws and practices and begin this process of improving the regulatory environment for entrepreneurship in Slovenia. The second thing I would like to point out, and I conclude with this, is the attitude towards foreign direct investment. At the hearing, Mr candidate for Minister of Economy stressed that somehow you do not object to the support of the investment in Revoz that you did not object. I have to say I'm very supportive of this, I think it's right. However, we both know very well that you opposed this, that you said at the press conference that this investment was unnecessary, and there was this controversy in the National Assembly. I'm so glad you changed your mind here. You could say, "Good morning." What I am particularly concerned about, however, is the fact that you said in your opening statement today that foreign investors from the United States should be motivated to invest more in Slovenia. We are not explicitly exposed to any country in the policy of promoting foreign direct investment. But here I am concerned that there seems to be some kind of twist in our foreign policy as well as obviously in our economic policy. I don't think that's good. If this makes up for any pre-election services, then this is another thing, but I think this is basically not good, although of course I very much welcome your openness, according to the new, for foreign direct investment. Of course, I don't know, and I'm asking you why you highlighted one particular country, the United States of America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u93	Thank you, Dr. Lakhovnik. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I listened with great interest to this discussion. Let me start by saying that I support this government and I will support this government as well. And whoever you think I'm going to criticize, believe me, it's not my intention to criticize, but to remind or warn on some things. That's a big difference. And I would like to point out to all those who have now repented in front of me, according to domestically, in the Styrian jargon, that it is not long before one of the former government parties wiped out the Slovenian People's Party because of the erased in the previous government and only experts came to the positions of ministers. But look at the fraction, overnight all these experts became political officials and also politicians then the largest government party, this is the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This is where the Prime Minister said it was about experts, two days or a month later, everyone ran for the LDS as party members or sympathizers. What's the difference? Today, however, there have been many criticisms in this Chamber about the expertise of candidates, political experience. From the debate I could understand, many critics flew to the fellow Member of the Visiak delegation and Comrade Drobnic. Dear colleagues, I am sure that both Ambassador Vizjak and Petnik will be good ministers for the first time because the Minister must be a good politician. The Minister is a political function and must be a good politician, if there is an expert, so much better. But first of all, it's politics. The Minister needs to know politics in the National Assembly, in the government and everything else. The Slovenian People's Party has signed a coalition treaty that we have adopted, but it would be bitter to stop at one serious problem that has recently been present in this country. And I'm also going to tell you honestly why. In 2000, we voted for the Bajuk government. When we elected Bajuk's government or candidate Mr Bayuk, I vividly recall when I warned one or two SDS fellow Members that it is now an opportunity for the northeastern part of Slovenia to have any candidate in the government. That's not when it happened. At that time, two fellow Members, whom I respect, told me that no one had decided from the northeast part of Styria or from the University of Maribor or Maribor or from the surrounding area to go to the government for six months. Today, we make a government, or we love it, for four years. I have here a list of 15 candidates for ministers. All the names are worthy of my respect and I respect all the candidates, but there is not one on the other side of Troyan, nor any of the northeastern parts of Slovenia. Among them is a colleague of the Beast, all respectable who has run for office in Illyrian Bistrica, who recently served as the two municipal councilor of the Ljubljana municipality, now from Desternik. It's a list of 15 candidates. I am convinced that people have elected to vote for Members and that they have voted for amendments and that they have instructed us not only to form and represent the position of the legislative branch of power, that our task is also to create a government suit. And if today we have 14 candidates from 15 candidates from central or wider Slovenia, and given the names that are circulating through the towers in the National Assembly, who will be deputies or state secretaries, I can again find that there will be none from the north-eastern part of Slovenia, not one from the University City of Maribor or the wider area. I will also be frank with you, but don't let the Prime Minister blame me for trying to ensure that these departments are evenly distributed in Slovenia. I am convinced that all three or four coalition parties have both policies and appropriate experts throughout Slovenia. However, they need to be given an opportunity, an opportunity for the city of Maribor or the northeastern part of Slovenia to gain some more, which will be politically formed in this Slovenian political space. On the one hand, we could say that we have a political crisis in the northeastern part of Slovenia, that there are no personnel, that there are no people. This was the philosophy of the former ruling LDS and I cannot agree to it. Why am I saying this? Decentralisation will be required in this country. But we can only pull the decentralisation out of the way so that we have the staff. The Minister will bring state secretaries from the district, state secretaries will bring in advisers, assistant advisors from the district, and this will round up the whole of one or the central region. I am obliged to talk about this and to point out this, because I am sure that there are many who would like to speak to me on the list before me, but for such and other reasons he does not want to talk about it. I've got my back, and I've done it. But I'll give you an example. Here today we have a candidate for the Minister of Health, Mr Andre Bručan. Mr Andrej Bručan, with all due respect to you, I respect you, I support you, your predecessor, Mr Keber, took a decision at one of the last government meetings, suggested to the government that it be decided that a new council of institutions be appointed to Maribor General Hospital. Among the eight members of the Institute's Council, eight members were appointed to the Maribor hospital, including seven names and surnames, which can be listed here, which have also been published, coming from central Slovenia or from Ljubljana or the surrounding area to the Maribor hospital. I don't mind, but I would expect that at the same meeting we would appoint to the world of the Institute, to the Clinical Center, but all candidates would come from the northeast of Slovenia to the Clinical Center. And I will give you all the support to resolve this institution's world at its first or next meeting and give it an opportunity for all those who come from the other end of Slovenia to be able to become members of the world of the Maribor hospital. It's a centralization of personnel. The story's somewhere else. Mr Bručan, you probably know, rumors are spreading that Mr Keber is looking for a job, and in this way, when he has a majority of eight candidates in this institution's world, he is probably looking for a position of professional director at the Maribor hospital. That's a lot of my question. Does this then ensure that he is not welcome at the Ljubljana Clinical Center or the like? This is the centralisation of personnel, and I will not agree with that and I cannot agree with that. People have elected us, Mr Bručan, you have my support and probably support from a number of others to ensure that this centralisation or decentralisation is also known in this area at the first next government meeting. This is just one banal example of how it happens, who, where and how it comes from. Why did I also point out the problem of human resources centralisation today? Because a lot of people have been turning to me lately, and they've been alerting me to that. Even those who spoke at the Maribor Republican Assembly come from abroad. And they cannot accept that there is no more presence, greater presence in the government or in any other suit from the north-eastern part of Slovenia in the field of human resources policy than is evident from this list. The city of Maribor is a university city, such as Ljubljana, respected colleagues and colleagues. He also deserves his attention within politics. I am sure, once again, that all four coalition parties have sufficient professional and political potential to allow individuals or candidates to face their challenges. We have entered into a coalition agreement to carry out the decentralisation of community funding. And if I touch the centralisation, as one of the predecessors spoke before me, when some of my fellow Members, who will take over the minister's office today, see the incompetence, let those colleagues tell me whether it was a professional or political decision to mislead Maribor for Hidroholding and because the minister did not have time to drive to Maribor for meetings, they moved Hidroholding with its seat in Ljubljana. Is this an expert or a political decision? I am convinced that this is a political decision and a strengthening of those segments of the economy which in one way or another generate large capital gains. I am sure that the future Minister, Mr Vizjak, will have a special hearing as Minister for the Economy for this work and for this area as regards energy and the north-eastern part of Slovenia. In preparing the coalition contract, the Slovenian People's Party had requirements for privatisation of Slovenian banks, insurance companies and certain state-owned companies. I would like to point out here, my fellow Members and colleagues, the candidates for ministers, the Prime Minister and the candidate for finance minister, we are aware that it is necessary to privatise banks, take out insurance companies, but at the same time we are aware in the Slovenian People's Party that the country needs one strong financial pillar, which will be at least 50% and one share owned by the State, at least for this period of four years. This financial pillar may be in a Maribor bank along with some insurance companies. What some today in such or other media are reading in some way, and who should stand up for this privatisation, I must point out that this government, through its supervisors, can also change the policies of these institutions, change the staff, the directors. And these directors, if they are reinstated, will be able to work differently than they have done so far and pursue a different economic policy of these institutions. However, believe me, Germany and some other Western European countries, at least one important institution, as they are called the bank, have their share which strengthens Slovenia's national interest. And frankly, it's not about Maribor, it's about the Slovenian state, it's about Slovenia. If someone is able as a government Member to give me the thirtieth signature for deleted for the referendum, that people have identified themselves, I am also capable of being a government Member, this is not prevent from giving me the first signature, but people will be defined in the referendum or it is necessary to sell such important institutions owned by the state in total shares, third shares, in half or all. I'm ready, whether I come from the coalition or the opposition. However, I am convinced that there will be so much wisdom and knowledge in the coalition that together with the finance minister to come, we will find a common solution, which will be the best choice for the future of Slovenia and the Slovenian state. Once again, I would like to appeal to all other respected fellow Members and colleagues, people did not just trust us to represent such local or other interests in this place, but they also trusted us with their local voice or voice from where we come from, so that we can work together on human resources policy in the government and elsewhere, where we have jurisdiction under the Constitution and under the law. Once again, I stress that no one should take this as a criticism, but as a reminder of the problem that I see as an individual as a Member, and this is a serious problem of this society. I will support the candidates for the ministers myself, and I wish them all happiness and great success. Above all, I want all candidates for ministers and future ministers to work somewhat differently in the government coalition, such as some have so far, and to have a little more attention and respect for this house that we Members come from, and a little better relations, whether it is a member of the opposition or a coalition, to my fellow Members of Parliament. And I'm sure the success of the coalition will also be better and better.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. I would like to ask that future debaters limit themselves to the agenda item, so we are discussing the list of candidates for new ministers, not the work of the old government. Mr Bručan also applied to the replica, but, Mr Bručan, you cannot have the replica because you have not discussed it at all; the replica can only be used for a misinterpreted or misunderstood discussion. I therefore suggest that you include your comment later. I invite Mr Matjaž Han to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Commissioner, Candidate and Candidate for Ministers! Even though I respect the will of the people, I will not support this government. Not just because I can't and I don't want to take responsibility for the work of a government that I don't have an influence on. Nor is it because it is the first government in a state of independence, which consists of virtually only the right-hand parties. Above all, because, after hearings, I fear that this government does not have enough power, knowledge and people to reduce Slovenia's development backlog for the most developed Member States of the European Union over the next four years. The pre-election promises of new jobs and a better future are obviously forgotten and today the mandate-holder and this government has come before us, Members and Members, representatives and representatives of the people, especially without a programme, without a vision and what worries me, simply without the courage to accept responsibility. Where we're supposed to continue our work, I'm afraid it's gonna break. Where they should start building, they will assess the situation. And where we should strengthen the cohesion and strength of our society, they intend to create new divisions and reduce the rights already acquired. All of this is particularly reflected in the economic, social and employment sectors. Given the fact that time haunts me, I will not comment on any unreasonable promises and desires in the coalition contract. However, I must say that, personally, as do other colleagues and colleagues in the United List of Social Democrats, I am most concerned about the fate of people. That is why, Commissioner, and any future government, I would like to inform you that I am ready to act in a state-of-the-art manner and that I will accept the role of the opposition Member, who acts constructively. However, since I owe my promises to the people, the people and the people of Radeč and Laško, I will fight to ensure that the level of development of our country, the degree of democracy of our political system and the position of social partnership in this society will not be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Han. Branko Marinič took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that we have been critical today and that we have been uncritical today. This is our mission, and this is our job. I agree with all those who have embroiled, in particular what is laid down in the Coalition Treaty. The Coalition Treaty, however we assess it, however we look at it in terms of its content, of course gives some good starting points and grounds for those who elected us to receive answers after the end of our mandate and to ensure that they have made the right decision. The content of the coalition treaty, which I have fully reviewed, follows only one fact that it is still necessary to seek common interests in this political and economic space. And if the Coalition Treaty is a coalition document of four partners, it is clear that it must be defined from all four programming sets of individual political parties. I do not agree with those who are already legally formulating a coalition treaty as nothing. Of course, lawyers would probably disagree. As soon as I begin to evaluate the coalition treaty as nothing else, I think it is premature to talk about it, because time will show whether the provisions of the coalition treaty will be implemented. In view of the majority of the mandate given by the mandate of the mandate to form a government, the Commissioner tried to act as best he could and chose a team that presented itself to us on Monday and Tuesday. I've been to four shows myself. In all these four presentations, I got the feeling that from everything that the candidates for ministers have told us follows a fundamental provision and a message to the Slovenes and Slovenians that we want to take a fair, well-being and, above all, a well-intentioned journey to the direction in which the Slovenians and Slovenians deserve to go. And if I had one more provision taken out of the coalition contract. There has been a lot of talk about this, including on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, that the Coalition Treaty has a provision that follows the establishment of new municipalities. Many questions were raised by the opposition, from the opposition members of this committee: do you think that in accordance with the law or do you intend to do just what people have said or want to do? It seems to me that this is more about correcting the failure made by the previous government. For in the past many congregations have been formed without legal basis, and therefore we are forced to correct injustices in the sense that there will also be those in the eastern part of Slovenia who have expressed their will to have their own congregation to enable them to do so. In this context, I believe that this was also the right decision. I could still discuss it, but I'll be limited in time. To the future Prime Minister with my ministerial team, which I will support today, I want a lot of good work, and especially, as my colleague Kangler said today, remember that Slovenia is alone from the east to the west and from the north to the south. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Pavli.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, once again candidates, colleagues and colleagues. The list as a whole does not convince me, although I must be fair and say that some candidates are good, but that is not enough to vote for the list as a whole. I would limit myself to specific cases from the hearings where I participated, it was three candidates, I was at the hearing of the Minister of the Interior and the candidate for justice and transport. And the first two hearings were more clairvoyant, in my humble opinion, and the third one I have to admit was good, and I will also say, first, second and third, why I think so. In internal matters, the candidate received a number of questions that he answered in a very, very general and evasive manner, and he would expect a clear and concrete short answer. I'll tell him, for example, what he'll do if he finds out that the police are investigating a specific crime that can have a worse reaction in the public eye or that more visible persons are involved, and whether he'll ask the police for information on the investigation and give the police appropriate instructions. His answer should be very short: I will not do it because I cannot because there is no legal basis for it, and in this case it would be an abuse of the police for political purposes. Of course, the candidate did not give this answer, but he was a long and broad philosopher of how he would do, how he would not do, what was possible, and what was not possible. The answer, as I say, is only one - no! The second question was whether, given the low coverage of diplomatic consular missions around the world, it would ensure that the police would be able to issue visas at the airport following a simple procedure for all those who would otherwise receive visas at these missions. Again, his answer should be: no, because this is not possible, only in exceptional circumstances, which are tax-listed in laws, can a visa be issued at airports - and we have not received such an answer again. And the third example, I asked him how he planned to prevent the abuse of asylum procedures, here he let me down, you can look at the magnetogram because he didn't know exactly what it was. The answer, however, is that this can only be prevented by swift decision-making in the administrative procedure, for which it must clearly be adequately trained. At the hearing of the candidate for justice, I cited the majority opinion of the legal profession from this year's days of Slovenian lawyers, which opposes the enforcement of the Act on Offences, which came under the tactics of the current Minister of Justice. In particular, this law, which enters into force on 1 January, provides, inter alia, for the transfer of all judges for offences to provincial and higher courts, which is considered by the majority of the profession to cause chaos in justice. This is more than 200 judges and at least what we should do should be achieved in order to reach a one-year decision and reconsider the consequences. It will also, of course, be a matter of abandoning the so far unique jurisprudence of the Republic's Council for Offences. This case law will now be carried out by a number of higher courts, which is not good. Well, Dr. Sturm, who I value as a legal expert, didn't want to hear anything about it and said that the law would come into force normally, regardless of the consequences. And one of the other questions that I asked him, I asked him what he was going to do about the sky-slipping problem, namely that less and less professional associates are applying to the courts. And of course, if there are no professional associates, this has a negative impact on judicial backlogs. This question, however, was simply ignored and he did not speak of it or of the mews. With regard to the transport candidate, I said that in my humble opinion - and this area I know the most - well, but I also have an answer why it was good. In fact, if I look at the coalition contract, there is practically 90% or more of it in this transport work copied from the Liberal Democracy programme and also from our responses at the time of the interpolation. The candidate praised the transport policy adopted by the government on its departure in July, and practically all other projects, he also claimed that at the rate we have done so, he will continue to do so. He himself acknowledged one mistake, something unfortunate and, of course, completely contrary in accordance with European regulatory and practice. In fact, the part that relates to eurovignettes or vignettes in the coalition contract is, of course, absurd. Slovenia does not need vignettes in the transitional period from the toll system to the electronic system. And this transitional period, the candidate for the minister promised to shorten it. So at the hearing he himself admitted a mistake in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u101	Thank you, colleague Pavlich. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. First, I'd like to welcome our commissioner, all the candidates for the ministers and the minister! Of course I also welcome all fellow Members of Parliament and Members! Since there is little time left, I will try to be brief, because there are plenty of colleagues behind me waiting for a word. Today is an important day, a happy day; happy for many in this hall and happy for many voters and voters, for most outside this hall. On October 3rd, voters chose those options that will now entrench the government. Today, another step will be taken that leads to the goal of a more fair, more cost-effective country, which will also be developed. When I walk, I move among my constituents, they tell me that they expect a lot from the new cabinet. And I wonder why they expect a lot - because so far the government has not done enough in many areas that I will not list, many have already been listed. On the home work bodies, the candidates proved to be good. Everyone deserves a positive assessment from my point of view. But I know there's a lot of work to do in the future. Of course, I will gladly support the new government. In the end, the new government would like a lot of success at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u103	Thanks, buddy Pike. I'd like to take a word with my colleague Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would not like to be included on the list of those who often want to perform or have long hirades, but now I think it is necessary for me to clear up some things, but also to speak. Because much thought has been expressed here, either in support of or in sharp criticism of what has been written and what has been presented, from cities to uncritical support, to the fact that criticism has sometimes been such that it is perhaps far above the edge that we can still accept as rational. After all, I was unable to write anything, but I listened attentively to other speakers, but I would like to respond to some of the thoughts I heard. I understand that - even I am among those - who says that consistency is not guaranteed enough or that it is not coherent enough and that many things are difficult to achieve. I also understand that, in particular, those who did not participate in writing this coalition treaty are meeting pessimism, and I find it more difficult to understand that there is also such a militant rhetoric that must mention bombs. All we have left is to choose whether it's going to implode or explode. Well, that would be very difficult for me to agree with. And when I hear that, I wonder what kind of project I'm actually involved in. How to act now, if all of this is true, should not, of course, be involved or perhaps all that has been said or even with the desire that what is good is not accomplished is not so bad. Above all, I think we probably don't all understand this treaty in the same way. I don't understand it anymore, so they think that the apolitical truths are being told there, that there's nothing there to change. There's no record of that in the contract either. The Treaty states that this executive part will be strictly and closely monitored to change when the need for change appears, and therefore we must probably show free, not sow pessimism, but some will, some optimism to monitor that we will also be ready to do something affirmative for the benefit of all of us, probably. That is why I reject the obvious fact that I am participating in some, under the terms of, of course, the "bomb" process that threatens Slovenians and Slovenes, because I will be afraid to step out of Parliament if people hear it and internalize it, as if it were their position. We are not all of the same interests in this project. Surely not all of us - all coalition entities. We are not bound by some very deep ideological common roots. We are not bound by some very long political party history, unless we reach 20 or 30 years ago, and then we would probably get to some strange network if we were all related, both by political ideology and by the parties. But that's not what tied us up in the first place. We're in the middle of a business. With some moderate pragmatism, with some moderate desire to do something in terms of satisfying the interests of our citizens and citizens - also worth us - even something in the sense of the parties we represent or on which we have run. So it is our interest to work together to bridge the very sharp censorship in this House, which I am accompanying, to abandon any serious resentment and to find some strength to participate in the future. But no! Arrogance won't work, but it won't work with a militant vocabulary. We - I believe that I am also speaking on behalf of my fellow Members from our group - will contribute as much as we can to keep a close eye on what will happen; to make a good proposal and to be able to negotiate if something is to be left behind, which will prove to be not the best estimate. That is why I think it is also justified to say yes to a team that is not as complex as some wanted to present or as some wanted to say that it is a written contract. Malone, as if written by people who were forgotten at the distribution of intelligence, was somewhere below the bottom. It's not that bad, gentlemen and ladies, and it probably isn't. So, I am one of those who will try to make a contribution to development by implementing those parts that are feasible. For those parts where it will not work, we are likely to negotiate and try to reach agreement that something will be relaxed or added.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u105	Thanks, buddy Rezman. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u106	Dear Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, a respected candidate and candidate for ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, including everyone who insists on the balcony, and I also present myself to the viewers and viewers. In the introduction, I would like to express my gratitude to the government so far, which is passing slowly. In my opinion, many acts have also been well done at this time, but also, unfortunately, a lot of work that has not been done. And it was precisely because of the work we were expecting from citizens and citizens that took place on 3 October. October 3rd is the date of the milestone and December 3rd the next milestone; apparently the number 3 will be the lucky number of the new Slovenian government, I hope so, and our new president. Expectations are high, justified. Voters and voters, citizens and citizens, just expect from this government much of what has not been done in these years. That is why the responsibility of the president and the new team is extremely great. The public will continue to critically monitor the work of this government, evaluate it in its work, not least in the electoral programme that we presented to the parties before the elections, and not least in the coalition agreement, which is the fruit of the joint work, and in my opinion, the good basis for the future work of the government. There's a lot written in this contract, and I believe it's not a good time for everyone, and that's understandable. However, I am sure that I have found those points there, which the voters and voters decided on 3 October. Of course, changing the words written in this contract in action will be very, very difficult. I am sure that the team that presented themselves is good that these people who have experience have a "great kilometer" in various responsible places, not least they know what they're getting into today - to enter a responsible job that will be re-evaluated in four years' time, whether they've been successful or not. I am sure that Mr Prime Minister would like to repeat another mandate, and I believe that one of today's ministerial candidates will also have to work hard, honestly and decisively. That's why I believe this team will make it. The candidate list also includes the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Podobnik and Mr Janez Bozič, who were considered good at the hearing. However, I hope that the third candidate or candidate will be sent to the Prime Minister within 10 days at the latest. I would like to make a good team with government participation, which will breathe for the good of Slovenia and all its citizens and citizens, so that cooperation between the government and parliament will be as good as possible. I think we are both on one boat leading to a specific goal and all together responsible for the future of Slovenia. If we cooperate well, both the position and the opposition, the government, ministers and all Members, I am sure that this success of Slovenia will go on the right path. This requires some patience, a common dialogue, to find optimal solutions at certain points. I believe that we can do this and that together we can also raise the ratings of this national assembly, which has not been high in the past, and neither has the government. I believe that this is also the wish of the new President of the National Assembly, as well as of the Prime Minister, that this will happen in the future. But I would like to point out just a few things, because I come from the Posavia region, where certain problems we feel strongly and where I have been elected several times. He would point out some of the problems that he may or may not have, certainly the previous government has neglected or has not engaged so much, but they are very important for the future as well as for priorities. Today we have heard the word decentralisation here several times. This is a word that, according to my assessment, has the number one in my priorities that this government should address for the more coherent regional development of our small, yet beautiful Slovenia with today's exceptional differences between the White Country, if you will, and Ljubljana. And we are all citizens of the same Republic and we all want more than we want today. The second thing that has also been mentioned today and I think it is also very important, also written in the coalition contract, are the Slovenian municipalities. We have 193 of them, and we have them heavily fed. The beginning of a story begins at the local level and if this local level, in the face of countless commitments set by the previous government, by the local community without money, is, of course, difficult to rule in the local field. If we do not take a step forward here and also try to give these municipalities more opportunities for faster local-regional development, then the government and this Parliament are also poorly written. Finally, the statement that we all want to win the best lottery says a lot. What does he say? To get the money then that citizen, the citizen of that congregation where this lot would have been hit. And today, my colleague, I think the mayor has declared that he wants it, and I want it in our congregation too. What matters to me is the economy. This topic may have passed by too many times, if you have the chance, take advantage. In the economy, in particular, I am talking about labour intensive industries, which are a sinking Slovenian ship, which will happen in the near future, which will be several hundred if we talk about thousands of unemployed people. Who are these people, what are all these people, what are the alternatives to these people to be employed in the future? I think that in this matter the future government, the President, the Minister for the Economy and someone else will have to take this issue seriously, because it is a major social bomb for Slovenia, especially for certain regions that once had textiles in the first place. A more rational and, of course, more effective state administration is what every citizen wants. This will, of course, be a tough nut, but if it is a will, and the will is, then I believe that this abnormal relationship between the public sector, where such strange things are happening today, will simply provide this payment system and this relationship, for example, I will show in my own case that the principal of kindergarten has a higher salary than the mayor of the municipality of Sevnica, and the municipality of Sevnica will provide him with the municipality of Sevnica [[Incomprehensible.]] Cooperation. [[...]] Does that make sense? I don't think so, fellow mayors. Well, that seems a very important thing to me. Next thing you know, give the company better conditions. In doing so, I mean small and medium-sized enterprises that want to develop, who want to get to certain documents, papers and similar things faster. The country should be optimally friendly here, as any success story begins in the economy. And if the economy succeeds, the rest of the story will succeed. I do not think this should be emphasized in particular, but this has not been the way we would have wanted it to be. Last but not least, the conservation of rural areas and the restoration and development of agriculture and, of course, the festivities of rural areas, I mean, this is also a topic for the National Assembly, for the government, for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and also in this area, which requires particular attention, because Slovenia has an extremely large number of rural areas, extremely sparsely populated and still, thank God, enough farmers involved in this activity. And another problem at the end. I come from Posavje, where there is relatively large unemployment, low wages and similar things, but unfortunately I see that when there are calls from a variety of our employers, there is simply no real motive for work. The values of work - perhaps this is a problem, but another problem is that many social transfers are significantly more favourable than they pay up to 70 euros in the morning or in the fox. This is a story that I think is going to have to do something too, to overwind legislation so that it won't be better to be out of work, and at the office and ask the employer to get a job rather than go to work. And today 80 jobs are available in the Sevent, and employers do not get cases or workers for this work. Something's not right here. And at the end of the day, dear Prime Minister, tomorrow will be a new day. Black is Saturday, and for many jobs it's a day off, and I believe it'll be a working day for the government tomorrow. Finally, this government waits a lot of work until the end of this year, as well as this national assembly, to set up what we have somehow decided to do, and perhaps today, when we also get a new government here in a few hours, there may not be too much time for any celebration, to postpone the celebrations to those events when the first of those mentioned in the coalition treaty will be realized for the good of our Slovenia, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and for the well-being of all those for whom we are appointed, elected to this Parliament, to the government, and not finally to the common good of what we also, when we have signed the coalition treaty, realize that we must do and implement the next day when we confirm the government at the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Janc. And to my word, I'd like to invite my colleague Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u108	Honourable Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly, Candidates for Minister and Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. Today we are upgrading the will of citizens and citizens from two months ago. We reaffirm the government, ministers, who will in the coming years, in cooperation with the National Assembly and other institutions, realize the development vision of Slovenia. The work will not be able to, despite ensuring that the government, as in today's debate, follows that it was the best and we will not have such a good one soon, so the outgoing government remains a good legacy, both in the field of public finances and in other areas. So all you have to do is grab the handlebar and take the story straight. If that were the case, in my opinion, this government would not be a former government today. I would like to say three more things about the coalition treaty, the ethical code and the opposition's concerns. The Coalition Treaty is the sum of the commitments and plans made unanimously by all coalition partners. And it is clear that the coalition treaty cannot record everything that this government will do. We are committed to the obligations and tasks enshrined in the Constitution, all of us, citizens and citizens, of course, even the government, even though they are not once again enshrined in the coalition treaty. Forming a government, forming a coalition is something we are committed to with the constitution. The basic document cannot therefore be a coalition treaty, but first of all a constitution, all the documents that have already been adopted here, the laws, the regulations issued by the government, which obliges everyone living in Slovenia, that is, the ministers and the Prime Minister, to act accordingly. The Coalition Treaty includes tasks that have been agreed upon and are some of the directions of the new government. It is clear that events and situations will also force it to complement and update. In addition, the coalition treaty is an undertaking or a commitment to those who have signed it, and not to all others who have not, so I think the concern is over. The ethical code will require ministers to do more than the law, and it ensures that candidates are aware of responsibilities in their candidacy and have made a conscious and serious decision to do so. They are willing to comply with higher standards than the law requires of them. This has not been exactly the practice so far, because in the various affairs we have witnessed, what the resignation of the minister, what developed democracies know about the significantly smaller slippages we have witnessed here. And concern. It is good that the constructive opposition gives advice to the team before the election; how and what to do; how much money and what to spend it for. In addition, you all express your concern and your fear of what will happen and what will happen. I believe that with all the foolish purchases during your reign, with all the affairs that have shaken Slovenia, with such concern, even with measures, there has been neither the spirit nor the hearing. Therefore, I propose a little less concern, colleagues and colleagues, that you do not endanger your health. The new ministers and ministers, who will certainly be elected, I am sure, but of course also to the Prime Minister, I would like them not to lose contact with citizens and citizens, so that they will be able to listen and take their views into account in the future. This ensures that the decisions and implementation of these people will be close and so human that the decisions of citizens and citizens, who will have such influence all the time and not only on the day of the elections, will be made. With the consent of the candidates for the Ministers, for the first time, they said they wanted to execute and meet the expectations of the electorates and voters, and I am sure that they will act accordingly. They presented their vision on the parental committees, giving positive agreement to the orientations and tasks of the individual areas and thus confirming the individual candidates. This is where the hard work begins first. I'm sure it'll be a success. New people always bring new energy, and to the Prime Minister with a new team I want a lot of positive energy and successful leadership of Slovenia to become a developed society of equal opportunities for all and one of Europe's most successful countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u109	Thank you, colleague Jeraj. I invite Mr. Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! I would go back a little bit to the past so that perhaps it would be easier to understand the present and perhaps easier to understand why the ruling elite has lost so smoothly in the elections. At the constitutional session of this House, representatives of the government, who are saying goodbye today, spoke about the success story. The report on the implementation of the regional policy, published in the Rapporteur on 28 October 2004, speaks of the fact that Koroška was by no means a success story. In all the elements of development, Koroška was suppressed on the edges of this country, this country and the ruling elite in Ljubljana only remembered Koroška when it was necessary to export an affair from the centre. Let's just remember the famous Vit-Homec affair. I'd like to take some of the facts that are recorded in this report. Last year, in the Caroco statistical region of unemployment, compared to the year before, it increased to 12.6% because it is, of course, above the Slovenian average. In the unemployment structure, this region deviates from the comparatively highest share of jobseekers due to bankruptcy. There is an average shortage of jobs in Koroška. GDP growth has been the weakest in Korea in recent years, and today GDP is 20% behind the national average. In 2001 and 2002, GDP was among the lowest in the country. The salary per employee in Koroška is comparable to the lowest in the country, among the lowest added value per capita. Labour costs per employee are above average and among the lowest, but the share of labour costs in the added value is among the highest and could also be listed. In short, Koroška was not a success story at the time of this government, and Koroška puts much hope in the new government of Janez Janša. I've already mentioned the bankruptcys that left many Koreans on the road. Many of these bankruptcys of the Korean companies were carefully planned due to the subsequent split of the bankruptcy loot. And on this bankruptcy heist somehow sucked on this narrow corrosive elite. The companies that were in bankruptcy in strange circumstances are for a personal phone book, if we start with the preval machine, the steel company Jeklo Livarna, and there to the car transport Dravograd, Taste, Radlje and could also list. Many workers lost their property, lost their jobs, lost their wages from bankruptcy. And since the poor accident beats twice, there was a bankruptcy manager in Koroška who, of course, was a good lender of the money of the company Buildingbenik Prevalje famously spilled to Pompe. Today it's about 150 million tolars. As it is known, this company, Pompé, owes companies around 1.3 billion tolars in one way or another. And to make the irony even greater, this same bankruptcy manager advises the Koroan workers in the context of the Koroška Free Union. In these years, almost none of these directors, who have deliberately led these companies to bankruptcy, have responded. Due to suspicious privatisations, which were zero in Koroška, only one director has been convicted legally so far. And this director ran for election this year, on the United Nations List. He wasn't elected. The border valley and other parts of Koroška are still highly dependent on steel, and this is in state hands. Today, there are only two companies left to sell and privatise, Metal Ravne and Knife Ravne in Koroškem, and for Ravne and for the entire system of the Slovenian Ironworks Korosci, we expect the new government to find in the future fair owners who will be willing to pay fair money for this property and to provide in particular development and jobs. And that the new government will also place great hope in this, remove from these ironworks people who have so far been to these ironworks or in the past or who are doing damage to today. During these 12 years of rehabilitation and privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, a lot of property was sold and the public still does not know about the sale, for some details such as the sale of Armatur Muta, where it was a typical cow trade, as it is not known what was the actual purchase from Jelo Store, why it was such a funny low purchase for the Ljubljana Aunel [[?]] . The public is still not aware that Copo Internationall in New York, also owned by the Slovenian Ironworks, is unknown where 2 million dollars have gone. The man who worked in this company in the middle of elite Manhattan is already appearing in Slovenia and taking over new businesses. That is why Koroška is on the other hand in the Slovenian summit on suicide. This year, to this day, there were 25 suicides in Koroška, representing 33 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. And in the case of suicides, Koroška belongs to the Slovenian top itself. We do know, however, that Slovenia is among the first ten countries with regard to suicide in the world. Right, suicide is a very complicated phenomenon, and I'm aware that we can't just explain it for one reason. But experts are also united, namely that social features of the environment, such as income per capita, such as the rate of unemployment, such as poverty and the like, increase the suicide risk. All of this is present in Koroška, as I mentioned in the first part of the talk, and all of this will have to be corrected by the new government led by John Janša. Yesterday we were able to accompany Dr. Rad Bohinc's Minister of the Interior at his press conference. He said that Slovenia was a safe country. Safe country - like for someone. It's not for me. Bohinc, Dr. Bohinc, has silenced all his weaknesses in the current management of the Ministry of the Interior and has also silenced a comprehensive letter written by police unionists who are not satisfied with the situation in the police. He also silenced the surprising practice of the Director-General of the Slovenian Police, who is meeting with individuals who are at risk of human security and must be protected by the police, whose director is Mr. Angeljez. This one, for example, is in the Journal. [[was 23 October 2004]] Said we could meet in our private life with anyone who's not security-related. I hope that the new Minister of the Interior will carefully examine what the Director-General of the Slovenian Police understands under the term'security problematic' and will instruct him kindly that the Director-General of Police is also when he leaves the building on Stefan. Let me pull it up. In the last 12 years, Koroška has by no means been a success story, and we rightly expect Koroška from this government to change this relationship and to bring back Koroška's smile. That is why I will vote for the government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u111	Thank you, colleague Friday. My word, my colleague, Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u112	Honourable Prime Minister, Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Candidate for Minister and Candidate for Ministers! Unlike some, I am very happy and proud that our group has also formed this government at the professional level. Dr. Andrey Bajuk, mag. Janez Drobnič, Dr. Jure Zupan and not least Dr. Lovro Šturm are people with professional references, and especially people who don't just think about themselves. After what I saw and heard at the meetings of the parent committees, and after some of the candidates' presentations, I made sure that they were ready and able and, above all, willing to work for the common good. And I wish that my positive opinion was justified. The views of some of the members of the committee that we have heard today that the text of the coalition treaty is too much to follow, I myself have seen as positive, as a confirmation that their personal views are not very different from what is enshrined in the coalition treaty, and I would rather not be afraid if that were the case. Last but not least, we decided on the basis of election programmes. In the absence of a general legal culture, which is still an important example, I listened with interest to the Minister's candidate for justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm. I am pleased that we all agree here that it is indisputable for an expert, not only theoretical but also practical, and I think this has also been understood from his presentation. It is aware of not only the judicial backlogs in general, as some have pointed out to it, but it is specifically considering how criminal judges and judges could be allowed to carry out complaints that are often unable to carry out because of the non-discipline and absences of defendants. So how can you buy files at the desks, mostly judges, in the executive department, at the expense of rationalizing the enforcement process, but not at the expense of debtors or creditors. I find it encouraging to look at it as regards the technical equipment of the courts and further information. And I really wish that the judges and the judges we confirmed at yesterday's session didn't need to be suspended for the sake of carrying out the evidence, watching the video tape because, as I was told, on the Court of Ljubljana, the only TV with a video recorder is in the second hearing room where it is also being treated. I like the fact that the candidate realizes that he's not just the judge that everything depends on, but he's a lot of things. The legislation should also allow for effective trial management and responsible and professional decision-making. And I am confident, my colleague, Dr. Pavlich, that in this search there is an answer to the question why there are few applications for professional colleagues in the courts, which then follow the logical progress of judges. So far, we've witnessed that in a lost case, the prosecutors are pleading with the police, the police are pleading with the prosecutors and the judges, if they're incompetent. Here, the candidate for minister sees a solution in greater cooperation between the prosecution and the police, as well as in the investigation of the files, and, last but not least, it would be good to examine more precisely in the process of making a possible error. True, one learns the most from mistakes, but it is not good to repeat them. The Ministry of Justice will endeavour to seek the cooperation of all actors involved in the field of justice. And, of course, it will be useful to exchange good practices, to set recommended and mandatory standards for the implementation of procedures and so on. And finally, here is the task for us to support these positive ideas as a legislative body when it is necessary and meaningful for the widest range of people, too. Thus, before the common challenge, we will be all three branches of government, judicial, executive and legislative. I hope that the ultimate goal is to restore confidence in the judiciary. Thus, I wish you, Mr President, and all the other candidates a great deal of will in achieving the objectives set, and above all that it would no longer happen, as I have read somewhere, to make the honest people a stupefying list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u113	Thank you. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague Davorin Terchón. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, wherever you are right now! I myself will judge this government on the basis of the programme and, of course, I have already assessed, among other things, on the basis of a hearing on the home work bodies; and, of course, their competence. As far as the hearing is concerned, I must say that there has been an impression in the opposition that I now belong to about some kind of grace. In my opinion, however, the stereotype was adopted that the opposition must shoot with all the cannons, that it must serve, if necessary, disqualifications, demagogies, aferism. Of course, I can say that this is no way to imagine an opposition role, and do not expect it from me or our opposition. Of course, we will need to be critical, and we will draw attention to the problems, and we will open them up if necessary, but we will also be constructive with proposals and, of course, we will also support positive solutions. With the competence of the proposed team, which is often spoken of, I would say that it will somehow be an obvious fact that in this competent team one of the competent candidates resigned even before the appointment took place. Of course, I wonder if there are any other such competent candidates with a signed code of ethics that can give us any such surprises in a short time. On the team there is also a candidate who has been described as an external minister, who has already been, some say even an eternal foreign minister, who was said to have become the rule of changing political options and the obligation to change views. In their own way, voters in their constituency have also said about this candidate with their great opposition, I would say. There's been a lot of talk, and it's also written in an account, and you're digging up candidates for the Minister of Agriculture. I could add another pebble in this mosaic from its operation in accordance with the agricultural lands and forests of the Republic of Slovenia, when a single contract was signed by the Fund, with a reforestation plant which then transformed into a forest economy and a plant, and where many hectares of land were eliminated, which are then in the mass for privatisation. Although a large part of these lands had been introduced into the spatial plans of the congregation of Sežana, and as we know, since we have adopted such legislation, we should become municipal property. And, of course, there is a certain suspicion of these procedures. It's a court case, and we'll see how the case ends. There's certainly some sort of strong enough suspicion that there were some strange things. A lot has been said and spoken, including at today's meeting, about the candidate for Minister of Home Affairs. I have listened to Mr Kovacic and, of course, I think that every citizen in this country has the right to run for important functions. The so-called candidate. However, I must say that alone in the SDS, and also Mr Prime Minister, you have accepted the fact that in our democratic country we will have a non-military defence ministry. And that we have a civilian. So in this case, why are the soldiers deprived of not being able to assume this function? It is a message that has no case, as far as I know, in democratic societies, that a soldier comes to a repressive body, and an officer. This is important! Without falling into his competence, although it is true that he is being followed by some things that are not definitively cleared in public, I am referring to the Sarajevo case and so on. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm gonna have to cut it as short as I can. Just a final thought. Every time the power moves from left to right, you pull out and break with the past. That's okay. Some other governments have broken up, and now it's breaking up with the past again. We will give you a hygiene deadline of 100 days, and please, and you have a good one, make sure that this interruption is useful for the citizens and that your government will stand before Parliament and in front of the voters, either for more than two years or more for more than six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u115	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. I'd like to speak to my colleague, Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u116	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister. Today is a day that we will have to keep citizens and citizens in mind because the right-wing coalition will finally assume the responsibility it has wanted for the full 14 years, and they say yes, even for the full 59 years. That is why, of course, it is not possible to object to the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša that there are opportunities before these parties, before this coalition and before this government, that they have never had before. What are the opportunities for congregations? Although the coalition does assess that the current powers and tasks of the municipalities are under-expenditured for a third. Will it try to ensure a gradual improvement in the financial situation of the municipalities, but only within the framework of public funding options? It is also through the relationship of this coalition to the financing of the municipalities that their true attitude towards the social pressures of our citizens and citizens is shown. Because it would be hard to believe that the coalition is so poorly aware of the jurisdiction of the municipalities that it does not know that the municipalities spend part of their budgets to alleviate the social distress of citizens. Similarly, it shows the protection of the environment. Does the coalition really not know that the main investment by 2008 comes from municipal budgets in waste management and waste treatment at the burden of municipalities? Therefore, of course, I cannot believe that many of the promises of the new government coalition to improve living conditions for citizens and citizens of Slovenia are taken seriously that the coalition and its president do not hold a fig in their pocket. I believe, however, that all those who voted for the right on 3 October will be convinced that they are waiting for them when the power of goodness changes, what they soon find their profound error and their disappointment will be great. I am therefore once again pleased that the United List of Social Democrats has avoided participation in this coalition, which builds its programme on the vague promises that make up its government exclusively on the party side, without candidates having the necessary personality, expertise or expertise. Exceptions and fewer fingers in one hand are candidates who meet the high criteria for ministers of serious and reputable Member States of the European Union. The opportunities are really great, but the doubts about the government's competence are so great that it is unlikely that Slovenia, the country of all of us, will have the opportunity to take advantage of all these opportunities. Who, then, are they before whom are the opportunities? Let's wait, let's follow, let's check. We will count the flowers of thousands of promises and alert everyone who will burst into mist. In a fog that strangles citizens and gives everyone who can fish in mud.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u117	Thank you, colleague of mine. For easier orientation, especially for those who are still registered in the text, I will read four of the following debaters who have changed their order. Instead of his colleague Pukšič, he will be the first to receive the word of a fellow Beast. Furthermore, instead of a colleague of Kramberger, colleague Prevc, Mr Luci cancelled the discussion and instead of a colleague of Marjetka Uhan will be given the floor to Alojz Sok. Please, if Mr. Beast has a point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u118	Dear Mr. Vice President! Thank you for your word. I would like to briefly, because we have very little time left to discuss in our parliamentary group, just to answer some of the obvious that the new government coalition will introduce ideology into school. I would like to stress that I will strive to make this school - not ideological. And if there is any principle in those who have pointed out that a neutral school is, even if you are in favour of this principle, I must say that we have an agreed position here or that we value the school equally. It is, however, a fact that such a school will only have to be pursued. As far as the introduction of private schools is concerned. I believe that the introduction of private schools at different levels is not bad; it contributes to competition and also to better quality of school offers. Of course, it is not possible to make a relationship completely clear, because we cannot conduct what percentage we will place in private schools and what percentage these public schools will be. We'll just need to release the process, and we'll see. This is particularly important in the higher and higher education areas, in order to accelerate the process, increase competition and thus gain better quality. Our goal is to reduce discrimination in the mandate ahead of us and to make human rights and freedoms more viable at this time. It does not matter how many times this word is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, it is important that at the end of the mandate we can find that the realisation of human rights and freedoms has increased and the degree of discrimination, various forms of discrimination, has decreased. This is also the most this new team can do in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u119	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Michael Prevac.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister, distinguished candidate and candidate for ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since I've been given time, allow me just a few words. December 3rd was mentioned several times today as the birthday of the biggest Slovenian poet and, of course, we will confirm the government. A real opportunity for joy! And on 3 October, there were parliamentary elections where political cards were re-mixed. As a result, the new faces on the team of future ministers will form the executive power of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. In the past days, you have moved your vision of work, respected candidates for ministers in individual departments, to the competent home committees, where Members can be convinced that the Prime Minister has formed a good team. On this team are also members of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Podobnik and Mr Janez Bozič. I am sure that Mr Janez Podobnik will lead the Ministry of Environment and Space with his great political knowledge and experience, and also Mr Janez Bozič, with his experience at Darsa, will lead the Ministry of Transport very well. In your performances, you have shown that you are well acquainted with the tasks ahead of you, and above all, you have expressed the great determination and courage that you will need and will be your constant companion. Even though you are coming from a different political option from the previous government, there were no threats to radical change in your performances; even praise was heard at the expense of the previous government. However, the candidates for ministers made it clear at the hearings what needs to be improved, modified and upgraded in order to improve the functioning of the country in all areas. I am sure that the new government will not happen what has happened since it has completely lost its sense of dialogue and, with an arrogant attitude towards the opposition, has closed the way to better laws and to bring about a number of unresolved problems, particularly those with ideological omens. I will certainly support the new government. But I want the future ministers to have a lot of courage, wisdom and, above all, political latitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u121	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Comrade Koren. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Mr. Prime Minister, candidate for Minister and candidate for Ministers, welcome! It was very interesting for me today to follow this debate on the candidates for ministers and ministers. I find it interesting that today I did not detect 100% division into position and opposition. I have seen this right in the debate for the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, where, on the one hand, the LDS made a very negative assessment, but on the other hand, I am pleased that my acquaintance, colleague Mr Bojan Kontic, who is also the opposition, has given a very good relative positive assessment to Mr Bručan. And I'm glad to see good things if they're good things. I myself have been at Mr Bručan's hearing, and I can say that his presentation was at a high level and that the Ministry of Health will lead successfully to do everything, in fact, as much as it will have the power to go in a positive direction. At the hearing, he stressed the need to import a certain number of doctors, so that the situation here is so that it does not manage the necessary situation. That's why I've been thinking a lot about family politics. I have three children myself, but I know that this is not enough to have more, not to have enough doctors today, but I seriously think if trends go as far as our current situation and trends in Slovenia are, Slovenia, as bad as it is. The second thing I would like to stress is social policy. I estimate that the level or that this policy is good in Slovenia all the time. Here, too, I must commend all the governments so far for their efforts in this area to be successful and well done. However, I am sure that Mr Mag will also be the new Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Janez Petnik successfully continued this work. But it is true that I will point to one thing in social policy. In this area, I see for myself a lot of abuse that people who are not entitled to it actually receive certain support and subsidies. At meetings of the municipal council, since I am also a saint, this matter is most often discussed when we accept new prices for kindergartens. Here the councillors in the congregations actually see how this kind of subsidisation of saints is, I'll probably say, a little flawed legislation or because it's not resolved that abuse can't be carried out. With regard to social policy, I will repeat this because before me a predecessor has already said this, and this is not a problem of social policy, it is right that it is as it is, but the problem of wages, it is said, these lowest wages in our country are actually too low. For it is not worth the work of men. You don't grab the job you'd get, because on the other hand, these social transfers are bigger than you would be if you took the job. That I won't be too long, and that I won't repeat myself too much. With regard to work and jobs, I would like to point out one more thing. This is a black and gray economy. At least today, I expected someone to raise this issue. This problem is present in Slovenia. I know it's a very sour apple to bite into, but we can also make more people work. I'll end up supporting the government today. I think all the ministers are good enough to deserve my support to be both politically and professionally on a sufficiently high level. I am pleased by the government's statements so far that they leave all the ministries in satisfactory condition, and I hope that the new government will be pleased to take over such a situation and to continue successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u123	Thank you, colleague Koren. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague Rugl.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u124	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present, and also to those who observe us possible. I would congratulate President Janez Janša on forming such a government. I know that this government will mainly work and perhaps speak less. He would touch on the possible success stories highlighted by the ruling, former coalition. I don't think it's all that pink, or it's a long way from that. Everyone's talking about gross product, how it's growing, everything else, and nobody's asking what our gross debt is. Our gross debt goes up from year to year. What's our external trade balance? Every year we have almost a billion dollars of new foreign trade deficits. If that's the journey some people are boasting about, it's very, very bad. Then you might touch the direction, either the left or the right direction. I've been listening here for a long time, what's left, what's right, but somehow they taught me at school, that the right hand is primarily about capital. I think this government is far from the right government, because this government does not control capital. It is known who controls capital in this Slovenian space. So I would suggest that you stop deceiving listeners or perhaps viewers on TV with such things. Some wondered where we would take it to give. I think we're gonna have to act a lot more cost-effective. We know a lot of, a lot of money that's been lost by God knowing where, from the point of view of affairs, not to mention, maybe even selling electricity for three tolars, the audience will know what it means, for some, especially for domestics, it's a couple of times more expensive. That kind of thing, I think it needs to end. Then maybe he'd touch the school. Why do people not attend certain vocational schools, such as a miller, an electrician, an engineer, or something like that? We all know that in the last ten years, the entrance to the Faculty of Philosophy has increased three times. This tells us exactly what is worth doing in our country. I come from Posavia, where the basic industry, where it works, but unfortunately doing it is no longer worth it, is more and more worth it. That's how I'd end it. This government, I am sure, will work well for the well-being of Slovenia, especially our citizens, and I know that by their actions they will prove that we have chosen the right one, so I will be happy to congratulate them on their election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u125	Thank you. But to my word, I invite Mr. Yelen. Mr. Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I personally support the entire team of candidates for the Minister and Ministers of the Coalition of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Party of Pensioners. I believe that this is a truly optimal achievement of the last state-level elections, democratic change and coordination between the above-mentioned coalition partners. This is a way of credibility, stability and at the same time a guarantee of professionalism within independent candidates who have convinced me in their previous performances on committees. It was enough to promise and fail to fulfil that burning social situation of citizens and citizens who had long hoped and finally voted to change at the political level they had long wanted. We have our own democratic state and the upright hold in it. We are still building democratic principles and shaping society. We will also build the likeness of our country in the future in the form of a good and effective work of our newly appointed and desired government, on the trust that we will give to the parties today of the already formed coalitions in respect of all the proposed candidates and candidates for ministers, their high expertise and effectiveness, when they have already shown it in their working environments, where they have become visible, visible and worthy of the trust of the Commissioner. Today I personally expect majority support for the proposed ministers. Let us allow them to show their ability to work within their ministries. In this way, we will reach a quality government that has previously been agreed upon by the coalition treaty, which I also want to support, all in the interest of starting work as soon as possible to prove that, through effective measures, we will ensure a safer and better life for citizens and citizens. It would be wise to simply support the proposed government with the greatest possible support, giving it trust. After a certain period of time, we will ask them what they have done, each of them from their field of work, which will be covered by the government and its departments. The democratic party of pensioners is also involved in this coalition, so we have the opportunity to act with patience and prudence. In the coalition, we want to bear part of the responsibility for the work that has been entrusted to us. We will do our work in a responsible manner for the well-being of our constituents and voters who have entrusted us with the mandate. We will strive for the efficiency of our system and for greater economic growth, which is a prerequisite for a better life for our citizens. Our task will by the way be to draw attention to unfulfilled coalition treaties, and with professional conviction we will ensure the effective work of Parliament and the government. The Democratic Party of the Retired is proud to have negotiated what would have been impossible outside or could not have fulfilled the promise of a predetermined time. I hope that our interest has been proven, because we are an interested party of the older generation of people who wants to participate constructively and prudently as part of the good for improving the situation of young people, in order to create a better future for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think there's a way to prove it. I hope we can take advantage of them, too. We pensioners with a defence department, where we will be able to provide our citizens and citizens with security to such an extent that we can all be justifiably proud of it. Mr Janš's proposal for a mandate-holder, Mr Janša, convinced me, and I will also vote in favour of the proposed candidates for ministers of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Yelen. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Sam Bevik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u128	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! With no government so far, even from the point of view of its staffing structure, we were probably not fully satisfied. According to the electoral system that we have in force, the actual result of the elections will only be shown when the government coalition is formed. Each time, however, the composition of the government is linked to the public in more or less hidden negotiations between coalition partners. That's why we've all been looking forward to an official presentation. The staffing structure of the new government has also disappointed me quite a bit. The government's announcements by Prime Minister Janez Janš that experts and not party candidates will also be proposed to the government have not been fulfilled. At the presentation of the government, he even said that this represented the best possible government team in the given situation. Obviously, he had to give in to the demands of coalition partners, and he could have chosen from his own kind differently. Then it shows the withdrawal of one of the candidates. I don't want to be unfair to anyone, and I want the government to do good, and we're going to be able to evaluate its members and its work after 100 days of peace. A representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, colleague Eva Irgl, has made a real celebration of the ethical code of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Only because of the signing under this document is it finally intended to obtain a fairer, more solidarity and fairer and more demanding government, which will work for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia and not just some. The signature under the ethical code certainly cannot harm that it will have such effects, as the colleague has predicted, but I strongly doubt. Maybe I'm wrong. At the end of this government's term of office, I am also prepared to admit this possible mistake and, of course, to repent. It makes sense to me that ministers will not carry out their duties ineffectively, unfairly and impartially. In addition, under Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, they will also have to swear to respect the constitutional order, to act on their conscience and to work with all their power for the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u129	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I ask Mr Rudi Veršnik, SDS representative, if he will take a few seconds. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Honorable colleagues and colleagues! As you can see, I am not destined to speak my mind. So I just want to say, I will gladly vote for the government and support it. I wish her much success in her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your performance. My word to my colleague Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The candidate and the candidates for the ministers! Dear Prime Minister! Nicely greeted! As has already been said today, the Coalition Treaty sets out criteria such as leadership, professional competence, a good knowledge of the field or department, and above all vision and motivation for the implementation of the Coalition Treaty. This is just a few criteria for selecting each individual of the new government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The individual resources programmes presented to us by the candidates on the working bodies provide a guarantee to achieve the strategically important objectives set by the coalition in this mandate, and I have no doubt at all about the people proposed by the Prime Minister, whether someone likes them or not, and whether the candidates are in line with the criteria. I believe that candidates are able, in view of their work so far, to realise the expectations of citizens and citizens and to drive and implement programmes that are certainly most important: to create favourable conditions for economic growth by improving the tax and administrative environment; to increase and ensure greater efficiency of investment in science and technological development; to ensure more cost-effective public spending and economic governance of state-owned property - once again I say - to ensure a more cost-effective public spending; to provide budgetary restructuring due to Slovenia's entry into integration processes that will enable the provision of means to co-finance the European budget; to ensure a stable system of pension and health care; to improve the conditions for the creation and development of families; to create a secure, friendly and healthy environment; to successfully enforce Slovenia's assets in the world and to find much more. Your Honor! In addition to the expertise of individual candidates, as has already been heard today, the signing of the ethical code means greater trust for each individual as well as for the common government in terms of common prosperity and better quality of life in Slovenia. That is why I will also support the candidates, and I will sincerely congratulate them! However, at the end of the day, if you'll allow me, given that today has been more than a day of culture, I would like to express my cultural gesture as mayor of the local community to thank you sincerely for the cooperation of the Members who are saying good-bye today. We have worked with some less time, with some longer time, with some more mandates, with some success, with some little less success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u133	Thank you, Comrade Mikolitch. My word to Mr. Kumro.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister! It is clear to anyone who has participated at least once in close cooperation with the formation of the coalition government that the final result is, therefore, a human resources proposal by the ministerial team under an unwritten rule substantially different from the principles and fundamental objectives and the criteria set out in the coalition agreement or coalition agreement. It is therefore not surprising that today's Government's proposal, based on the presentations made to the parental committees, does not comply with the written criteria that you have written yourself into the preamble to the Coalition Treaty, on good knowledge of the area, professional competences, vision and motivation, commitment to work for the public benefit, integrity and respect for the stated ethical code, and leadership and qualities. These criteria could have been sincere, or merely a pious wish of the mandate holder, or a set of some theoretical criteria, which would have been the starting point for a document such as a coalition contract. It is therefore clear and clear that the selection of ministers and ministers, of course, is also a confirmation in this highest assembly, especially the matter and in the hands of the ruling coalition. What you're suggesting is that you also need to confirm today. Even if we ignore the assessment and the conclusion that the content of the coalition contract is a set of uncoordinated, materially unvalued and often contradictory objectives and desires, most of the presentations of candidates and candidates to the parental committees were not different from that assessment. Some candidates have been better readers of the coalition treaty, some have been weak, but some have also misread it, concluding on the answers to the questions raised. If, at the beginning of the coalition agreement, a coalition has stated that it will be committed to the principles of sustainable development, which puts human beings at the forefront and the protection of a healthy living environment, it is necessary to read this principle as well: that the mandate holder, together with the presidents of the coalition parties, has committed himself to the principles of the sustainable human development of this government and the coalition, which puts party loyal individuals at the forefront. And in the end, despite this valuable assessment that I have given, I want the proposed government to be elected today in all likelihood, feel good in our midst and prepare for work with us after hundreds of days of its operation. It's gonna be hard for us. You and us. But since the examples are drawing, and because I have no prejudices, I have, in the example of the Prime Minister in the opposition ranks, acquired some copies of WD 40, and if anything needs to be done or done, I will lend you this WD 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u135	Thank you, Comrade Kumer. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, distinguished Minister and Minister candidates, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, and all those who meet in any way you follow. Today in this temple of democracy, as we like to say, we are beginning to write a new chapter of Slovenian history. Indeed, on Prešernov's birthday the new Slovenian government takes over under the leadership of Janez Janša the most responsible tasks for the development of the Slovenian state and Slovenian society during the new mandate period. On the other hand, it is possible for those who leave in the will to write the achievements achieved and their own praises. They are rarely self-critical and recognise mistakes, but only when the consequences, for example, are a catastrophic decline in Slovenia's ratings on international competitiveness scales, as has happened with Slovenian science and its impact on the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. Slovenia has crashed into the last cities between the 60 countries, and somewhere at the level of Indonesia and the Philippines, Russia and the new accessions in the European Union have left us far behind. In fact, the new government is taking over an inheritance that is not useful for the Lisbon objective of building one of the most competitive countries in the European Union. The new Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will therefore have to convince Slovenian taxpayers of the necessity of science, which must finally be addressed to the building of an innovative economy. I'm sure the candidate for Minister, Dr. Jura Zupan, will not disappoint us when he gets his mandate. Likewise in New Slovenia, we fully trust the full proposed ministerial team, which, of course, we will support today and will support in the future. Among other things, because the presentation suggests that the proposed ministerial candidates still agree with Slovenia's terrible uneven development. Personally, I hope, and I am sure, if you allow some geographical imaging to be a new government, government not only in the heart of Slovenia, but also in the extreme north of Prekmurje and those living in the village of Damelj, in the far south of Slovenia, including those in the far west, in Breginj and those living in the far east of the country, that they will not, as many times so far, feel that they are east of Paradise, but that they are east of Paradise. You all know I'm thinking of Cankar's paradise under Triglav, which is also one of the motives of the new government. The new government of the Republic of Slovenia sincerely want a synchronized work, a lot of wise decisions for Slovenia. For Slovenia, the country in the heart of Europe and not the land on the outskirts. Of course, no one's going to book this town for us. We have to earn it ourselves. Bridges depicted on European currency banknotes are a good representation of what Europe and Slovenia are expected to become in the future: the area of integration and the meeting place. Of course, it wouldn't be good if you only connected money. Other values, cultural, human and spiritual, in particular, will need to be enforced. Happy new government of the Republic of Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. I invite Mr. President to the floor. [[According to our information, you have a few more seconds.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Because I only have three seconds: I'm going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u139	The last person still available is colleague Alojz Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Prime Minister, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! I have already spoken on behalf of the parliamentary group today, but since we have some time left, I will, in this short time, try to take some time to defend the Minister of Agriculture, the only woman in this government. I am convinced that, as Minister, if I rule out the financial sector, one of the most difficult sources in this government, because of its complexity, because of the great problems that are certainly emerging and will arise in this area. It was said here today that she did not answer some questions in her presentation to the Labour Committee. I claim responsibly, as chairman of the committee, that she has answered all the questions, but of course she cannot answer such questions as she was, "how will you feel or how will you succeed on the Brussels floor?" Please, we can ask her that in a year. Nor can it answer whether Slovenia will spend all the resources offered to us by the European Union, because it is not only up to it, but the whole government. Her answer was, "I'll make sure we spend all this money." Of course, it is also right that the opposition is not satisfied with the answers, but it is fair to say that it replied; the second is, of course, whether you were satisfied with the answers. It has had some errors since the Director of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund. I mean, even if these mistakes were to be made - of course, she reasoned them on her own, and most of us are convinced that there were no such mistakes. But if there were mistakes, in fact, all these mistakes go at the expense of a former government. So if she knew some mistakes were going on there, she should have acted. I think now that the ministers have signed the code of ethics, these mistakes, if any, will be removed. It was clear that through the coalition contract programme there was some possibility of a grandeur, and at least by the United Kingdom, there was a clear indication in this direction that through the amendment of the law the possibility of creating a magnificence in the Republic of Slovenia. May I remind you, honourable Members and Members of the previous call, that we have amended the law on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court abolished that part of the law that spoke about the transport of agricultural land. And the opposition, Nova Slovenija and SDS, tried to correct this mistake in the previous term. We tabled a law to limit property over agricultural land to 200 hectares. The United List was the one against it, and Liberal Democracy was the one against it. Today, we are hearing an obvious statement on this account from the Members of the United Nations. I can prove that to you through the scans. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, it won't be harder, Mr. Potch. I can prove that to you in half an hour, because they're magnetograms, it's all written down. This is a law we have enacted, this law has fallen here at one of the last extraordinary meetings. But as for saying she's a minister, I kind of heard the worst member in this government. Look, I told you before, she's the only woman to cover one of the toughest sources. And if obvious agriculture were not favoured by women in public opinion, at least I would expect women to defend it in this principle as a representative of a woman, not to defend it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] You're criticizing before she did anything. [[...]] And let me remind you that in the European Commission, agriculture is also covered by a woman and that a number of European countries, including Germany, have a woman at the agricultural ministry. That's why I wouldn't judge this area as a failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u141	Thank you, colleague Sok. We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared responsible for the debate. That is why I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u142	So, respectable everyone, once again. It was very interesting to hear the whole day's debate. I must say that much of what has been said or read here today has already been answered in my opening act, partly in the coalition contract itself. It doesn't hurt if some things, especially if they're important, happen again and again. The time ahead is demanding, is not simple, nothing is given in advance. And in my opinion, the voters were also aware of this responsible time ahead of us, so they also decided to make changes in the elections. This debate today has shown that the opposition of the new government will be very sharp, critical, sometimes able to assess things accurately even in advance. We can only regret that some of these abilities have not been used in the past. I hope that the government will still have some time to organise itself, and that it will then be able to respond to such things in some cultural dialogue where arguments will be decided. I am pleased that several things have also been recognised here by the current rulings, which are not good, that it has been acknowledged, at least that many congregations are before the financial collapse and that this is a difficult problem. I appreciate the self-criticism. It was called upon to respect the criteria for establishing new congregations. I promise we'll respect them at least as much as we've ever done. We know who was in power, what the criteria were as a result of this are these indications, which are now being addressed to the future coalition, that it should already be blamed for some fragmentation of municipalities, where fragmentation is already too large, in my opinion, to be unjustifiable. The calculation of costs, the financial consequences of the coalition contract, which was in some performances here day over to day, of course it does not. Don't hold it. In those commitments under the Coalition Treaty, which are binding, we have, within the framework of the options that have been very precise, weighed the financial consequences, especially with colleagues from DeSUS, able to say how long these negotiations have taken. I must say that here too, especially when it comes to coordinating the growth of pensions with the growth of wages, there were very different figures, I remember the criticisms of this agreement, I remember the first page of one of the Slovenian newspapers on the day that DeSUS's world decided whether it was going to coalition or not. At that time, a statement was published on the front page of the so-called top government expert on pensions, which said that DeSUS sold for "par fichniki" to a new coalition. This was a statement by a man covering this area in government. But when the coalition was formed, suddenly it began to talk about how expensive the contract was, how, I don't know, something was sold at the expense of the future, what some today called even the'retirement anti-reform'. Now it's up to you to make up your mind. I suggest that those who use a double criterion decide whether DeSUS sold for a few "fictions", as was said when they were still deciding whether it was an anti-reform of the pension system. He can't hold both of them. I think this is a compromise that has been reached in the way that all of the coalition governments have had to achieve, but it certainly does not threaten the Slovenian future and, on the other hand, it is not about, I don't know, some sort of coalition partner fraud. Of course, we would be very pleased, especially today and probably even more tomorrow, if such precise calculations as some have now tried to do on the basis of our coalition agreement were made for the revenue of this year's budget, which will be far less than what you charged at the end of the year. This leaves the Slovenian government with a very poor legacy in the next term in this area. I will not now quote some economic experts who have assessed, I must say that in recent weeks I have received more pessimistic numbers every day. I would also like to know where these laws, which were quickly proposed by the government, were no longer in power and with which there was such a hurry that they should have been adopted at yesterday's meeting, given that everything so far can be calculated and that everything is known. Why we received this at the end of our term of office, from an experienced team, proposals for laws for which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly assessed that they were virtually not worth the paper on which they were written. All of you have received these opinions and someone who acts responsibly can do nothing but ask for another thought at the time available. I also point out that, at that time, neither I, as Prime Minister, who has no government, no services, no institutes, nor any of the experts available to the government, was able to assess the concrete consequences, especially overnight. Therefore, I absolutely reject the criticism of this account. Next week, when it's different, we'll see what's proposed is okay, what's wrong, and we can still catch those hands. I don't know why it's been two months or six months, but now it's been a day. The new government will take responsibility for the situation in the country from the day or from the hour when the new ministers will swear. The situation in the country as it has been so far is and will continue to be the responsibility of the government that ruled in that mandate. We're not taking responsibility for this. That's perfectly clear. And these discussions, which were somehow intrusive in this sense here, I reject. A question has been raised, or almost a pre-arranged charge, whether from a coalition contract, from the appearances of representatives or candidates for the government, it is possible to understand that Slovenia will just send soldiers to Iraq and participate in the resolution of conflicts on these crisis hotspots. There's no such thing in our coalition contract. I point out, however, that the government, in which the party from which the Member spoke of this fear, has delegated Slovenian officers to those structures of NATO that can be sent anywhere. And given that NATO has decided to participate in training Iraq's new armed forces in Iraq's territory, that the officers you sent to these structures will also be sent there. But, fellow Member of the United Nations, this is not a decision of a government that is not yet, it is a decision of a government that is still and in which you are participating. Of course, I would also like to reject some hints, I don't know where they came from, that there will be a power in the government, or in the centre of the government, or in my cabinet, which will supervise the ministries to double costs, time, the functioning of the new executive power. We're not building any of this. Here you have adopted a new government law to rationalize the functioning of the government centre. There are no minister councillors anymore, no minister councillors within the government, no longer the office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister no longer has his office, he has only a cabinet for those most urgent things, and the secretaries of state have also been in the cabinet or in the office of the Prime Minister. Now there will be more because there are no ministerial councillors, and this seems to be a cleaner solution. The Strategic Councils have existed since 2000, since the previous coalition introduced this form of consultation of the Prime Minister or advice to the Prime Minister. In this law, or in this new law, which was passed after the last elections, we have not changed this, nor do we intend to establish more of these strategic worlds than ever before, to the extent that we will try to bring the matter to its conclusion because I do not know how these saints have functioned. However, they have not been introduced by us, they have already been introduced and, as has been said, they have been envisaged to be led by ministerial councilors so far, and at least that function has existed that we are abolishing. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government does not intend to extend with anything the possibilities that have been so far when it comes to the composition or the people that ministers or prime ministers bring with them for a certain period of time during their term of office. The limits will remain the same, for four people by the ministries for a certain period of time. There's nothing going on here for the administration to spread. There'll be fewer State Secretaries. They have a different function now. That's what we talked about the last time. I would also say that it will be very difficult for the new government to make some decisions very quickly and to identify things that have fallen on our table in recent weeks or months. I am thinking here of things like a lawsuit worth over 50 billion claims by Vega. I don't know why she was put in after the election, but everything was fine before. If the court decides for the prosecution's sake, I really don't know who we're sending these bills to. Or to those who have caused such a situation or to Slovenian taxpayers? I say in advance that this is not with anything that the government has not yet caused. I am pleased with those debates, which have been critical but reasoned, which also offer a deadline for cooperation in the government, where it is a matter of common affairs. And these, even if you read this coalition contract, are the majority. For key issues, this coalition contract, when it comes to sustainable development, when it comes to economic development, when it comes to what is the well-being of each country, is the real achievement of economic growth, it does not differ much from what we have had before. And I gladly accept the hands of cooperation in this direction. I am also aware that life will bring new challenges, that nothing can be written in the coalition contract. Let us just remember the previous term, the coalition treaty was three times larger than what we have now signed. When we put an intervention against the government before the elections, we listed 350 concrete goals that the government or the government coalition has failed to meet and has not changed. Thus, the contract remained virtually the same throughout the mandate and did not adapt to the new situation. We're going to do something different here. After three months of assessing the situation - this is also an agreement in the coalition - we will also do a review of the coalition contract, first of all a review in terms of the situation we will get. We have now written a coalition contract without having the Institutes at our disposal, all that the government has at its disposal, when it can significantly anticipate and calculate the consequences of certain measures. So far, we have been acting as a parliamentary party with resources such as the opposition in the National Assembly, saying that we have had some professional people at our disposal when it comes to paid force, and a lot of people who have been volunteering. Secondly, if a coalition agreement is made up from the government, when everything is available and it is also possible to make certain calculations more quickly. Since this was not available, a large part of the decision was then taken to examine a particular problem. It would be irresponsible, without having the exact data before you, to write something that is not possible, at least as otherwise objectively possible, to check the effects beforehand. With regard to the Coalition Treaty alone, I believe that it is previously significantly better than what has been done so far. There will certainly be much less targets at the end of the term of office than there are during this term. I promise you this in advance; we will also manage the contract across the street. Of course, every coalition agreement is a compromise, there are four parties in the coalition. We have been given different confidence in the elections, for every contract we have to negotiate, that's what everyone sitting in this room knows. And the final result, in my opinion, is good. There are also guardians in the coalition contract; I mentioned the key when it comes to public finances. This is all subordinate to the achievement of the Maastricht criteria. I hope that the opposition will also help at this point when there may be some measures that will need to be taken and will be painful in the short term and inevitable in the long term if we want to meet these criteria. Especially after what we know will be particularly difficult for the government next year, this year is 2005. In part also due to the irresponsible taking of commitments in this mandate and the opening time for the next year's budget. The Ministry of Finance has stopped these commitments this year, not for the following year. According to the Budget Implementation Act, a certain part of the budget for the following year can, of course, be spent now, as it were. The contracts were signed. We don't know how much, we don't know what. We're getting different information. I accept, with great pleasure, the offer to try to complement some of the things that need to be completed in the Slovenian Constitution in this mandate. I regret that something has not been able to be done by now. As an opposition party, we have offered three compromise solutions in the current mandate, which have not significantly deviated from government proposals when it comes to changes in the judiciary when it comes to the issue of regionalism, where we have offered a very acceptable compromise, which is still on the table and, of course, when it comes to simplifying the procedure for appointing a government. This last one, if not another one, would save Slovenia a month of time, which is now behind us. If it is possible in this direction to correct matters in this mandate, I will say that we are happy to accept this proposed hand, which was launched here today. I would also like to say something about the criticisms on the very composition of the human resources team that is being proposed. It was said that the personnel team wasn't the best. If I wanted to be just as cynical as the one who said that, I'd say we couldn't offer the best team because this one fell in the last election. However, I will admit that cooperation in the government has rejected some resounding names. I'm not gonna say they're better than the ones I suggested, but they're better known. And that's because they have three times as much pay and three times less responsibility in places where they are today, and because they don't care too much to talk about working together for the common good. That's a fact, and I don't think I'm the only one who's ever met that fact. When I spoke to the Prime Minister who led the government in this country, I don't know, 10, 12 years, he told me the same experience. In this regard, it is likely that some things about the relationship will need to be changed. It is very difficult to convince a professor who teaches abroad, one who cannot there, is easier to decide, and well deserves to go to a significantly more responsible place, where he will receive five or ten times less wages, and where he will be exposed to severe public criticism every day. Many feared that they would be exposed to this criticism earlier. And clearly, anyone running for office in the government is exposed. Fair enough, of course. Attention, public attention and criticism, many times unjustifiable, but it is not just any specificity of Slovenia. But I never said that the team I'm proposing is unoptimal. That's definitely not true. I said she was the best on given terms, and I still think so. It would be very unfair for people to judge in advance. By what will you judge them? After formal education, this team is at least at the same level as the one who lost and ruled the elections so far. What they have shown so far in the places where they have been is that some have had the opportunity and have proved themselves; others have not yet had it. They did not come from an option that had been in power for 12 years, and they did not have these options. After four years, you will be able to judge substantially more objectively. One contradiction in these criticisms of the coalition treaty has already been warned, for some in general, for some too concrete. Some don't bring anything, others don't answer too much. I must reject these readings as to how many times human rights are mentioned in the Coalition Treaty. If anyone does, then those who say it know what human rights are and what human rights violations are. Some of us have experienced this on our own, and not only verbally, but also with rather harsh repression. We all have human rights, not just those that some say they have. Every citizen of this country has the same human rights and will insist on it. I think that we are the first coalition, which Mr Battelli has previously made very clear, which has included in the coalition contract some commitments, serious commitments in relation to the situation, informal but, in fact, both national communities. Of course, we intend to do so. I also have to comment on the criticisms that come from the party we talked to to to join the coalition. Perhaps this team could be better off if some were willing to step forward behind their ideological fences and work together for the common good. As for the part of the coalition agreement that talks about the assembly system, I agree that in my opinion the assembly system in Slovenia is inadequate does not give these results which the economy expects. Especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Here we will look for solutions, but we would not want to continue to write some commitments without studying the consequences of these solutions. We would not want these solutions to undermine what works well. But there will be the necessary changes here, and the best ones will be chosen. I also think that there was a poorly read coalition treaty in the part about privatisation. We do not intend to privatize monopolies or natural monopolies, as was said here. The contract says exactly, first liberalisation and then privatisation. I agree that a private monopoly can be even worse than a state monopoly, which is why this is very precisely defined in the contract. In view of the fact that this topic has also been reflected in today's debate, I have to comment further on the criticism that the new government or government coalition will be selling banks to foreigners. It is important to be aware of where we are and what the situation is and that the solutions that were possible, for example, in 1999, when the party I run proposed the Bank Privatisation Act, are not possible even in 2004, since Slovenia was not in the European Union at the time, it was completely free to accept certain solutions. Today, there are no more free hands. We are part of the single market, and accordingly we need to behave, even if you do not act like one, these institutions are forcing you to do so. From the point of view of rapid development, it is clear that the consequences of this market are significantly more positive than negative in the long term, and we have decided not least to become a member of the European Union. However, in view of these criticisms, I would say that when we proposed this law and when these solutions were possible, only 16 members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and no one else voted in favour of this law and we have a total clear conscience in this regard. The fact that banks are privatised by selling only to domestic owners is a very insurmountable proposal. It's a very frivolous proposal. Some such experiments or experiments have already taken place, I will not repeat them or list them. Domestically speaking, this means that, of course, this would greatly, greatly benefit those who, as a domestic owner, would buy from the country shares of these banks in terms of limited competition, because they would be bought more cheaply due to limited competition and, of course, there is no mechanism anymore in conditions where this would prevent them from being sold to a foreign owner as soon as possible. That's what happened. So that's definitely not a solution. That's ridiculous! In fact, this would be an injury to Slovenian taxpayers, to those who have rehabilitated these banks. This is essentially how we talk here about whether and how much of these banks are held by state ownership. Selling, privatising them only to domestic owners by excluding foreign competition means drastically reducing the value of this common property, for which the government has no right. The fact that most of the banking system remains state-owned has its own danger and its own trap. I mentioned this in part in my introduction. According to Banka Slovenije, the added value in the financial sector in Slovenia is almost once again lower for the start of this mandate than the added value in the countries of the European Monetary Union. The added value in industry is close to added value in the countries of the European Monetary Union. The added value in the financial sector is due to the non-restructuring of state property, but the habit of doing what has been done all the time, without competition, without real competition, is half smaller. Thus, this is not exactly a beneficial solution in terms of a desire for faster economic development. Banks must serve economic development, the economy, the security of the population. As a result, this financial sector must be a function of faster economic development. It's not about having a good feeling that you own it, even though you're not. In the end, the only benefit of such a situation is the one that, of course, holds a monopoly, receives a multimillion dollar salary, but if someone changes it by chance, a few ten million dollars of retirement, which is what happens to us. But as we say, the contract also says that these steps will not last the night, that they will be weighed. Many expert discussions were on this topic. We have positive and negative experiences with the privatisation of banks from abroad and our immediate neighbourhood. Decisions will not be so difficult if we really take into account what our common interest is. The essence of all the discussions, including from the so far largest government party on agriculture, has been fairly said that the candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, as far as expertise is concerned, has nothing to say. This is also my impression after this presentation on the parent's working body. And I would also like to say a few things about the eyewitnesses that are flying at her. I have met Mrs Lukačičeva, who was the candidate - Lukačičeva, not Lukačeva, as someone said - for the first time as Minister of Agriculture, just in the case that he received these public accelerations in the last days, in the case of Kaligarič, in the case of Mr Kaligarič's hunger strike here before parliament years ago. And then she was the only one in the then government structure who understood the human dimension of the problem. I called a lot of people back then in the government because we were looking at a man who was torturing himself here and everyone was answering me with paragraphs so there was nothing possible. Mrs Lukačič was the only one who had seen this human dimension of this problem and helped to make things work somehow. Of course, these findings, which go to her in this particular case, are totally unjustifiable. She's already turned down some of the others. I would also say that Mrs Lukačič, who is not a member of the party I am leading, but we have invited her to participate because of her expertise, has been the president of the Committee on Agriculture in the so-called Government of the Shadow since 15 July, but since 15 July this year her name has been together with other candidates who were then proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to a new government, on an ad board, on the Internet. She participated in a number of debates, she performed publicly, but interestingly, some of the findings appeared only after that. Anonymous came in, in my opinion, mainly from those circles that are afraid that maybe agriculture would be different than it has been in recent months. As it is said, with regard to her expertise, I am also pleased with this act by the Member of the Liberal Democracy, who said there was nothing to tell her. Here, too, there were obvious or repeated allegations, in my opinion, that some were unjustifiable, because they had long since been rejected, about the candidate for Minister of Home Affairs, that the soldier would take over the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Mate Dragutin is as many soldiers as I am or any of you who have the rank of Slovenian army in reserve. Mr. Drago is not a professional soldier. He graduated from civil school in the same way as I think at least 20% of this House. He was on military duty only as a military diplomat in Sarajevo. He's currently in office in the state administration. He runs the largest defence administration in the Ministry, which has been run by the Liberal Democracy for four years - on civil service. So, talking about a soldier taking over the Ministry of the Interior now is completely ridiculous. I think that if that were true, but if it were someone with actual military education, especially Belgrade, it would have been a thrill rather than some opposition. I also have a problem with this tone, which has been expressed in some debates, if it's yes, but if someone is a soldier, it's a bad thing! I have to say very responsible here that if there were no Slovenian army and Slovenian police in 1991 there would be no such meeting today and there would be no Slovenian state. In a normal democratic society, the profession of a soldier or a police officer is a normal profession with a high level of risk and these people do not deserve an underestimated relationship and low-day characterization as if it were a worse kind. This is particularly because of the fact of 1991, in my opinion, offensive. I would also like to say that the new government will change its attitude towards the veterans of the war on Slovenia, to whom the relationship has so far been quite macho. I keep several letters from the Minister for this area, which are extremely arrogant, even those who participated in this team, which coordinated the defence of Slovenia with real force, are denied veteran status if they do not meet the conditions. Thus, this relationship with the new executive power will end. I don't think he was right. At the end of these answers to the substantive questions, I would like to read you a letter, in particular in response to the ability to pre-calculate all the consequences that I and Mr. Rop, Minister of Economy Mr. Lahovnik, Mr. Dimovski, Mr. Feri Horvat received from the Textile and Leather Industry Union of Slovenia two days ago. In this letter, it states that you should be able to illustrate the crisis situation in this activity by mentioning the company or companies of our activities that went to bankruptcy or forced settlement, or by firing more workers this year: Planika Kranj, bankruptcy - 690 employees; TT Prebold, bankruptcy - 220 workers; TVI Majšperk, bankruptcy - 110 workers; Vezenine Bled, liquidation - 130 workers; One Club, proposal for the liquidation of 110 workers; Morning Sevnica, forced settlement - 110 workers; Silk Maribor, forcible settlement; Alpina, closure of two plants - without work 220 workers; BPT Tržič, relocation of production, reduction of the number of employees; Žima, services - bankruptcy; Novoteks Novo mesto; after a compulsory settlement of at least 50 workers over 50 workers; Industria leather Vrhnnika - in 2004 200 workers; Induplatija Jarše - in 2004 80 workers. On the table, I have more than 10 different letters from individual companies, which are not listed here, which show that the story is over. The union, whose letter I read, says at the end: We know that quotas for Chinese goods will be released from 1.5.2005. As a result, you do not have to mention the consequences that the Slovenian worker will also suffer." So, Slovenia went to the European Union on 1 May this year, and we have tried and negotiated for many years. We knew what the consequences would be, especially those who can calculate everything in advance, but nothing has been done. At a time when it could, the government does not have, under these conditions after 1 May, any mechanisms for dealing directly with these problems that I have read. The government will work to create conditions for higher economic growth to enable jobs to grow, to create new businesses that will also be able to hire those who lose their jobs in this wave, but cannot directly help. And the question is, why didn't anything happen, even though it was known that this wave was coming. Where have economic ministers and ministers been in the last four years? Why this problem has only been delayed and today we have a wave on the table that is more difficult to solve, especially under new conditions than it would have been a year ago. This, despite the fact that it is a session in which the government is elected, is being transferred for some time or precisely because of it, I must stress that they exist in the public, exist among the unions - here is the most justified among the directly affected, who are before they lose their jobs - too much expectations that the new government will now save everything. It's not going to be possible in the way it's supposed to be. And, of course, in advance, I also reject the responsibility that the new government, which is not yet, is responsible for the situation that has led to this. And I wouldn't want to be behind this or another pay phone in three months to hear the criticism that we haven't done anything here. In the end, Your Honor, once again, I believe that the team I have proposed is good. I'm not gonna say she's super great, in advance of the dream team, like we used to hear. In my opinion, it is good, but everyone will have to prove themselves directly where it will not go, and we will look for other solutions, and that is what all candidates and candidates know. Many ministers have also been replaced in previous governments during the term of office. In the last term, more than half the government has been replaced, and with the Prime Minister we have talked about how stable the country is and was actually. So, even if there's ever going to be any kind of exchange, it's not going to be a tragedy. The government will try to act in such a way that it will be in the common interest and that the interests of individuals here will be secondary. The team I propose wants to work for all citizens, for the whole of Slovenia, so it is not crucial whether someone comes from Haloz or from Ljubljana, he will have to be responsible for the whole of Slovenia, for the area of his responsibility. I further encourage all of you to criticize us if the government concerns only Ljubljana, if it does not go to places where there are problems. These reviews will be justified. And, of course, in advance, I express my expectations that members of the government will not share their constitutional duties among the parties. This government is made up of a coalition. As far as the coalition agreement and coalition agreements are concerned, this will be regulated at this level. In the government, I don't want this division by client. Finally, four members of the government are not members of any party. That's four times more than this last government, which was just an expert -- it's supposed to be. And that is why I want us to act as a single team for all citizens and citizens and for all of Slovenia. The coalition contract, which is a substantive guide for the work of this government, is written for four years. It doesn't say anywhere that we're going to make it happen overnight. I have said before that we will also adapt the coalition treaty to the new situation. We will not write down that we will adopt a compensatory scheme within one year, and then we will not, simply at the end of the term, say that this is not a good solution. In the coalition contract, it'll still be written. In short, especially in the first year, some radical improvements cannot be expected according to the situation we are taking. The promises that have been made will in every way try to realise them in the course of this mandate, but, as has already been said, within the scope of the possibility. At the end of this second performance, let me thank you today for your patience at this full-day session. I would also like to thank Mr Rope, the Prime Minister of the current term, and the entire government team that has run executive power in this country over the past four years, for all that has been done; we are counting on the right or we are not doubting the correct advance. I also want a precise vote for all of them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Jansha. The scheduled time for today's debate was 9 hours and 15 minutes. All parliamentary groups, with the exception of the DeSUS Group, have fulfilled their intended time, so please take this into account in the event of any decision to make the remainder, that is 48 minutes, to give to those Members who still wish to speak. Is there another application? If it isn't, I thank you and we're moving on to Apologize! [[...]] Please raise your hands to those who are applying for further discussion. We've received 15 applications for discussion. I'll give each speaker two minutes, given the time. Later, the Prime Minister will also have the opportunity to respond to questions raised or concerns raised. The first one is a colleague of the school. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'll be much shorter on my own. I'll give my colleagues the rest of the seconds. I would like to ask the mandate to answer the question raised whether it can share the opinion of the candidate for the Minister of Culture on the examination of the Guitar Menu, it is said, the requirements for banning whether it distances the candidate from agreeing to this prohibition.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u145	Thank you. There's a friend of mine who has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister! Your credibility in public is very high, according to public opinion research. I'm glad I got a word today to say a few thoughts. As the conductor of this orchestra, you will probably play your part, but with the orchestra you will guide him, I am not exactly satisfied. He has not convinced me at all, and I must say that at the presentations of the candidates for ministers on which I participated, I have indeed seen the performance of the only candidate for Minister Christmas for the Ministry of Transport perfectly. Besides, I can't trust your voice because I don't believe that poverty, unemployment will be eliminated. 234,000 poor people are in Slovenia. It's a huge population. The purchasing power of Slovenians is expressed in the lower middle class and is essentially very rich in the rich. That is why I would like to say that the belief that we will restore this tax field that we should cultivate, fertilize and later hope to collect taxes is not sufficiently prepared. And from what comes out of the coalition treaty, I hope that, I believe, you will not be able to accomplish everything. Unfortunately, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Next on the list is Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. The main issue of today's debate, and also what has been said in the end by the Prime Minister, is the seriousness of the coalition treaty. It has been said, of course, that matters are not so binding. I think that in a few weeks in these rooms, when we discuss whether we are going to give 15 billion or up to 67 billion additional annual pensions, we will find out how binding coalition matters are. For in the Coalition Treaty you have written down what Mr Kebrič and those who made the first statements to amend the law on pension and disability insurance in order to gradually introduce the right to certain pensions. And Mr Drobnic, as a candidate for a minister, said that this would cost between 2 and 14 billion and gradually increase the recreational allowance, which would be the responsibility of the institution, could range from 5 to 25 billion. That's a key question. Second. It is also a matter of credibility of your statements. You're saying we have a big public financial hole in 2004. No fiscal stabiliser will be used in 2004. The loss of revenue will be around 10 billion, and for that reason the government has also adequately reduced its commitment with activities since 8 October. By the way, at the end of 2000, the outstanding liabilities were over 20 billion. The year 2000! It was said that it was impossible to assess overnight. I understand you've been negotiating for a few weeks, and I'd expect a candidate for Minister of Finance to know the numbers. Therefore, I believe that the credibility of what is enshrined in the coalition contract is, on the question, good for not doing so. It would be good, as you've already predicted, to come with changes to the program, and it would be good for you to do so immediately, preferably in the first hundred days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Rupar has the floor. Mr. Rupar is next on the list. The list was done in such a way that not all of the parties were together, but that the possibilities were scattered. Mr. Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u150	It is a pity, Mr President or President, that I have waited right for Mr Lahovnik's word. I am very much in favour of this team, not least because in some of the candidates' hearings, particularly by the opposition, I realized that this would not be a constructive opposition, that it would be primarily a cynical opposition, a high-flying opposition, as they have been accustomed to in all these years of government. Indeed, the only difference is that these governments are no longer in their hands. Finally, I would also like to say this: I am Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regionalism. The candidate, who was one of the possible or even interrogated, was the first in the country to deviate from her candidacy because of rumors and accusations, not because of evidence. This is particularly so because all gentlemen who have ever been in the government, all your secretaries, all your mayors, all those who have also been proven to be involved in various affairs, to this day, have not had the courage, not a bit, to do such a courageous and powerful act. And that's why it's only a warning: I hope it will be the same in the future. I'm glad we can escort the team with good travel, with a lot of support. Of course I'm sure she'll do well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. In his previous implementation, colleague Sok mentioned that the United List did not want to support New Slovenia's proposal for a land maximum. I want to say that in the mandate that expired, we have consistently respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court in our decision, and this has also been the case in this law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court’s decision has abolished the land maximum, so the law could not be supported in this context. However, if this indicates how the new government works, so that the laws will be adopted in a way that does not take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is a poor traveller and, of course, it will be extremely difficult to support this government or in fact you cannot support a government that will act in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I didn't get a lot of answers that I asked the Prime Minister. First of all, I would tell him that he believes that there is a crisis in the textile industry, which is also due to the elimination of quotas for imports of Chinese goods from 1.1.2005, that the country has helped many companies in this industry: Mura, Prebold, Morning. Some took advantage of state aid, some didn't. It is essential not to increase public spending, the costs of the state administration. And this is what we are telling you: that the first man of public finances in Slovenia does not know what the public financial consequences of this coalition contract are. We should have calculated that. My question was also why we have a new ministry more, one minister, one secretary of state, why you are extending your rights to state secretaries, why you are increasing the costs of state administration. And a job statement. We also maintained 3,500 new, quality jobs in Slovenia with the support of the New Town investment, which you so publicly opposed. I'm glad the position of the new economic minister is different from yours. Nor did we answer the question why you just pointed out that foreign investment needs to be stimulated directly from the United States, although the practice so far is that it is not separate across countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the Prime Minister has responded to all the opposition's obvious concerns. As President of the European Union Affairs Committee, I would like to point out that the election of the Government is necessary. That's what the suit knows so far. She has left a few hot bones behind, and they need to be resolved very quickly. Two meetings, two committees to be convened next week. That is why I call for a sober assessment and for a precise time frame for the vote, as the Commissioner has previously said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u158	Thank you. Dear Minister, I hope and wish, if your government is to be, and when your government is elected, it will be the first thing you will do to amend Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure. I am convinced that it is absolutely not fair that we are today deciding on the government in the package. It's not fair. The other way around. I am convinced that it is most responsible to the Prime Minister, to the candidates for ministers and, above all, to the electorates and voters, to judge and decide on each ministerial candidate individually. Maybe a decision like that or an option like that, if it were given, would change my decision and anyone else between us. I hope and wish, Mr Prime Minister, that you and your team will do this first. And I believe there are many among us who think and think exactly as I do. It's not fair, it's not fair that we have to buy a bunch of fruit in which there may be a lot of rotting and vice versa.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Sok has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Dear Prime Minister, I will be happy to support the government on which we will vote because I am sure that this government will be more friendly to the countryside, more friendly to the people living on the outskirts that live in the displaced regions of Slovenia. After all, I think that all these people deserve for the first time after the 13th, 14th years of independent Slovenia some equivalent and equal treatment, which has unfortunately not been received so far, and therefore we have met during this period with a marked abandonment and displacement of these regions of Slovenia, which are still important for the comprehensive, equitable development and prospects of our country in the future. After all, I will also vote for this government because I have no doubt that it will not repeat the mistake of a government that has not recognized and can assess the real value of wood from the state forests. Let us be afraid of such a government that sells a cubic of wood 500 tolars - 500 tolars, you have heard me correctly - and on this account let go or consciously let it rob this country 4 to 5 billion tolars a year. I believe that, despite the failed methods of granting a concession for the management of state forests, this will be corrected at least in the form of a regulation that will determine the real price of wood [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , cut in the state forests. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The time remaining for the debate will be used instead of an explanation of vote. As proposed, I will not support governments, nor will I support colleagues from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Not because of the persons proposed as ministerial candidates, because they are difficult to assess, given that they are new people who have not yet had the opportunity to prove. Nor is it because someone will be able to classify us, as in the previous term, under opposition A or B. I will not support it because it is possible to evaluate the coalition contract. The Coalition Treaty is an act under which all ministers of this government will have to act, which is proposed. The Coalition Treaty is largely contrary to the programme of the Slovenian National Party and also to the principles that we represent in the Slovenian National Party. If I can only briefly touch on the areas of the coalition treaty that I have had the opportunity to meet at the hearings of individual ministers. There was a great deal of talk about agriculture in particular. The Coalition Treaty has some good ideas on how to save Slovenian agriculture, but there is very little or little in this contract written concrete ways to realize these ideas. I myself have put five specific questions on the Committee on Agricultural Pensions concerning the retraining of agricultural land [[End warning sign]] , concerning the acquisition of European funds. The answers I got from the candidate were "I'll look into the matter, I can't tell you anything," which you can also look at in the magnetogram. Such solutions are simply unacceptable. I'm sorry. I'm running out of time to touch another area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Horvath has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Here comes Mr. Koren. [[He's quitting, too.]] And as the last one, Mr. Janša has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u164	Thanks again for the third time. Very briefly, some answers to these additional or perhaps omitted questions. I would say to Mr Školč that I think there is nothing at stake when it comes to - I think it was a mandatory reading - in cases where there is a danger that readers would consider it to be a reading with targeted content. There is also an alternative, but parents or children can decide; in fact, I think we all advocate the right to free choice in this national assembly. As far as it is clear that there are no precise calculations in the coalition contract or that we do not know the calculations for those specific obligations, I repeat these findings. The text itself shows exactly where the coalition committed itself to do something, and there we calculated very precisely, within the scope of the opportunities we had, even the public financial consequences. Where that was not possible, it says that we will examine the matter. I've gone through these exact lines many times, and this is exactly where I have to read. I also reject the obvious that we are already irrational in advance, by the fact that the government has organized itself differently. By the way, today we're proposing a team of ministers that's smaller than the one that's leaving is one less, not one more than we're going to see in the end. But the fact that the government has organised itself differently does not mean that we want to be more irrational, but it does mean that we want to be more rational because we estimate that certain things can be done more rationally within the framework that we have proposed. And to say in advance that something like this will be different or different, a little may be different opinions, but it will turn out in the end. Now I have not changed my opinion on state aid or on the grants invested in Revoz, and I will repeat exactly what I said at the press conference. I said at the time that this was not a waste of resources, that we did not know all the circumstances that made the government so decided, but I felt that maybe it would have been better if these 10 billion tolars, which is a lot of money, were distributed on the basis of a call for proposals, not just on the basis of some arbitrary decision of the government that could have been right and could not have been right. You've done some research, as you say, and you're talking about how many jobs you've saved, maybe it could be in a region where the problem of unemployment is even bigger, with the same means of achieving better effects - I don't know, we've expressed this doubt. I hope that the new government will not work in the same way that it will consider itself the most capable of assessing without a call for proposals, without weighing even comparative effects, that 10 billion will be given to some society where other issues are raised; but we have never said that it was a waste of funds. In particular, we highlighted at the beginning when we raised this issue, and I must say that the profession you put a lot of emphasis on this issue has been problematic for a long time, we have been reading these discussions for several months. As far as foreign investment is concerned, I have been talking about what Slovenia's relationship with the United States should be, because this is an ongoing issue because it was emerging. And in this context, I have said that we also want more foreign investments from this country. Otherwise, we make no difference, this has been simplified then in this matter; in short, we want quality foreign investments that will help make economic growth faster in Slovenia, so that we can create new jobs, so that those who are obviously now due to this wave of bankruptcy, which was very little done in the previous term, before jobs lose and that development will be faster and that we will be able to create prosperity on this basis. This is the only purpose, otherwise I do not think this is a special division, because this question was probably not taken seriously in this sense either. I don't think there were any other questions that wouldn't have been answered here today. We will examine this debate in more detail, candidates and candidates or future members of the government, and I think they can also find in today's debate a number of good proposals, including questions, including a few lessons to remember, and we are serious about this as well as future parliamentary debates. We believe that this is not some ritual that is happening in this Chamber, that it is a waste of time, but that we can end up here in the face of arguments and some different, better solutions that go in the common interest and are good for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Janša. This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote. In accordance with Article 232, allow me first to explain the proposal for a decision. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly appoints Dr Andrei Bajuk to be Minister of Finance, Mag. Mr Janez Bozič for Minister of Transport, academic specialist Andrej Bručan for Minister of Health, Mag. Mr Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavc, Minister for Defence, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Economy and Food, Mr Dragutin Matej, Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Dimitrij Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister for Culture, Dr. Lovr Šturm, Minister for Justice, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration, Mag. Andrej Visiak, Minister of Economy, Dr. Juret Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Milan Zver, Minister of Education and Sport." Now, I am asking Members of Parliament, do they want to explain their voices? On behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Potch. Anyone else? Squeak. Any other parliamentary groups? I invite Mr Porč to explain his vote on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the United List of Social Democrats, I repeat and stress that we will vote against the proposed ministers and ministers. We are pleased that the Prime Minister-elect has not rejected all the warnings that have been given in today's debate with a view to the government being elected, and we have no doubt about it, immediately confronting the realities of the coalition treaty, and immediately confronting the tasks it has, and telling us as soon as possible how it will implement the promises and commitments it will give priority to which issues it will give priority or not. If she does so after hundreds of days, we will be able to participate creatively in the implementation of the tasks. If, however, what is not impossible remains to be a long-standing desire of the new government to warn about what it has not had the opportunity to know and do and what should be done earlier in order to concreteize the tasks, then I think this will be bad. We cannot support the government for this reason, too, because our sense that the gap between the definitions in the coalition agreement, between what ministers and ministers have said, and between what the Prime Minister has said today, is large enough that we do not know this moment and cannot assess the real objectives of the government, nor the priority, nor the way it will achieve these objectives. I also admit that I am particularly concerned about the gap between the relative reality of the Prime Minister and the great unrealities of the Members and Members of the coalition in their deliberations. I understand that there must be optimism, and I also understand that there must be a desire to support and say that everything is good, but not to admit, except for the rare exceptions, one critical note, is probably wrong. And I have to say I'm glad that I felt in the Prime Minister's statement that he's worried that at first one of the parties is talking about the government, three of the parties are talking about their position in the government, and that's why [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] alerts us to work together, which is also our wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Run. The text is by the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mr Cvikl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u168	Mr Prime Minister, Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll explain why we can't support the government. He will comment on two issues that have been at the forefront of today. The first question is the internal coherence of the coalition agreement. This one's not guaranteed. I think that's enough said. Secondly, of course, we expect that, of course, a government team that has been preparing a coalition treaty for governance would know that these coalition contracts are not only made professionally, but it is a knowledge of the profession of pre-conditions for the writing of a political contract. You need to know the length of the blanket. Another is the so-called dilemma of skipping or not skipping ideological fences. It was not possible, it was not possible to enter into negotiations if the partners were not equal or if the content of what was offered could not be agreed because it was, of course, and this could be seen from the first drafts - the drafts of 20 October, 4 November are worse than this text. And the best thing would be, as we have found today, that this coalition treaty is not being implemented in the way it is written. Therefore, we cannot support such a government programme; we cannot support such a team. The team is particularly in the public finances and in some other areas unconvincing and does not understand the problems of today's Slovenia or the EU's understanding. Yes, there will be European Affairs Committee meetings every day. There will be several important meetings at EU level this month. 2000 are such meetings in the middle of the year and, of course, themes need to be known. It has been mentioned and it is good to say here that in order to address the problems that arise in the economy, it is essential that the government that assumes its tasks is well aware of its expertise, well knows how to reduce tax burdens so that companies can still survive, as part of the EU's limited rules of play, how to solve certain companies in Slovenia. Therefore, we hope that you will quickly propose additions to the programme, if necessary complementing the team and, as has been said today, as the opposition will do, and therefore we want you to come up with proposals for amending the 2005 budget, in line with your priorities, and we will discuss this publicly and find the best answers to Slovenia's development questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I ask which of the Members wishes to explain his voice - please raise your hand. Please hold hands all those you want to explain your voice to make a list. List not yet completed, please [[...]] Before I ask a procedural question, or before I ask a procedural question, I would read everyone who applied if I could. Mr Bajc, Mrs Zalokar, Mr Cvikl, Mr Anderlič, Mr Školč, Mrs Širca, Mr Lahovnik, Mr Petek, Mr Štebe, Mr Rugelj, Mrs Potrata, Mrs Pečan, Mr Juri, Mr Rupar, Mr Saiovic and Mr Kovacic. Did we let anyone go? Mr Grimes, Mr. Janc, Mr. Brenčich. Anyone else? Mr. Starman. I believe this concludes the list of applicants. Mr. Squeakl, you have the option of a procedural question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u170	I would like to point out, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you are in breach of the rules of procedure, because it is not specified in the Rules of Procedure that a list should be drawn up before the vote is explained, but that Members have the right to explain their vote immediately before the vote. What you are doing is contrary to the rules of procedure, contrary to current practice. You wanted to introduce her to the previous session, and you wanted to conclude on this at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. You had a closed working meeting at which you prepared and agreed on this practice. This is a practice which is contrary to 12 years of practice in this National Assembly. I therefore propose, Mr President, that you invite Members and Members of Parliament to explain the voice and how they will report and, of course, depending on the individual debate, what will be what, when, where to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u171	Mr. Squeakl, let me remind you that there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that we cannot record the names of those who have applied here at the counter. Thank you so much for your note. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. The first one is Mr. Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have a nice greeting, a nice greeting to the Prime Minister as well! Colleagues and colleagues, and welcome you to this evening! Many of you today said that we are celebrating December 3rd, the birthday of our greatest poet, also called "the happy day of culture". I think that this boasting of the party's representatives in departure also points to a part of the culture in this House. I would like to say that today will also be a happy day in a few minutes for all those voters and voters who gave their vote for the candidates of the parties who form today's coalition on 3 October - and my voice will be with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. The next word is Mrs. Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u174	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The proverb says: “As you fast, so you will lie down. And today you're sort of regulating your bed for the next period. And what can we finally see in this bed? Firstly, we see that there will be very few women in it, so far alone, which is not good for the growth of the Slovenian people. We can sense that there's a big hole in the bed, so there's going to be a lot of outside co-workers who're going to check the dark faces in the right direction. There are also a number of thorns in the bed, as some who will work more closely in it so far according to the river "Maria to themselves" and not to others and others. There will be a man among you who will watch over you when, where, how, and why someone will escape some kind of exhaust so that something does not stink. And last but not least, it looks like the blanket you're trying to cover all your wishes and promises is going to be pretty short. That's why I can't support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar. He has the floor to explain his voice, Mr Squeakl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u176	As I have said, I cannot support this government and today's decision on my behalf. The reasons were presented today. However, I would like today's debate and all the suggestions, suggestions and comments to be used primarily to obtain a better government programme and to allow the government to function fully after hundreds of days, as governments have done in the past twelve years.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u178	I have been to three presentations on the candidates for ministers, but I have listened to practically everything, and I regret to find that on that particular issue, let's say when I asked the candidate whether he would take up a two-percent amount of gross domestic defence product, or whether he would primarily work on that part of the coalition contract that would ensure the coordination of pensions or some other pension return, or whether he would care that we would meet all the conditions for the adoption of the euro in Slovenia. He said, I don't know, we'll see about that. We'll decide later. And so on. And then, of course, I was on the Finance Committee, Mr Bajc, from there I am drawing. Yeah, but he wasn't warned by the president, because he's in your coalition, he's allowed everything. Just like you're allowed to disturb here. So much, you'll probably allow an extension because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u179	Well, that's probably no longer an explanation, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u180	Well, that reminds me, these answers reminded me of the words of the first Prime Minister, in 1990, when he said, if it were round, there would be a shovel, if it were pointed, there would be fairies. And, of course, I cannot support such a policy, and nothing will help, nor will it, what has been heard most today, how it is necessary with a constant reference to the back, and what has been wrong, to protect for future failures that can also follow. I'm not saying they will, but that's the way it's possible. I won't support the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u182	Well, I will also take advantage of the fact that today is Prešeren's holiday, and in some ways I regret that on this day we receive confirmation that the space of freedom, personal and any, is actually being revived. As you can see, these things are not so innocent that it is a matter of choosing whether someone will read Matiček according to their will to marry or something from Kranjska bee, or what the rich treasure of Slovenian and world literature chooses from the graduation commission. The Home Commission is the one that sets out the list of six books and is generally not discussed on the quality of these books. At least in politics, we should not be overly doubted. The country is also here to defend certain decisions. Neither the candidate nor the Prime Minister sees any embarrassment in the fact that one of the books is being labeled and put out of this list as inappropriate. This is sad for such a day and this is sad for Slovenian parliamentary democracy. I agree, all ministers will have to learn a lot. But to respect, I will say the literary works of the authors, who are on the flag of their customers, who are wearing national cultural awards, which, as the Prime Minister himself said, have personally paid with imprisonment the price of their authoristic poetics, which is very bad. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u184	I'm not going to go ahead with what I've heard during the day, but I've already told you the rest, even though the president, you haven't answered anything I asked you. Today we have repeatedly witnessed the denial of Slovenian self-sustainment history. We've heard that democracy for the Slovenians begins today. We have learned that the establishment of a mandate holder and a new government means something similar to the fall of the Berlin Wall. That's what was said. A wall that was a result of politics based on fear and prejudice. I am sorry that you, too, have established something that we are together to deny, and I hope that in future you will apologize for the allegations made by all those who have established this country in these years. What are you saying is progress in the democracy of this government? In greater professional and political awareness of candidates and candidates? No, no, no. In the consistency of a government programme which is in a financial sense a kind or even a time bomb. No, the program is inconsistent. In the introduction of new values? No, no, no. That's what we've heard. We're going back to where we used to be. Or is there only a code of ethics left, which is nothing more than a covenant already written in the Constitution, and which should be respected by self - determination, but not taken as a cover for something else that is missing. Of course I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! No doubt your client was the winner of the last election, so you have every right to form this government at your discretion. What worries me, and on the basis of what I'm going to decide, is that you haven't answered a few key questions today. On a very clear question, what does higher economic growth mean for order in Slovenia than in the European Union that you are planning, you have not replied at all, and this economic growth will affect the standard of living in Slovenia, on pensions, on wages. On the second very specific question: How is it that you have also negotiated with coalition partners for the positions of directors of the Directorates, which is a distinctly professional function in the state administration, an apolitical function? How is it that one, the president of the coalition party, declares this, and you have not fenced yourself from it, and - is this true? I didn't get an answer to that either, and that's contrary to all the principles you've advocated a few weeks ago. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, I fully understand that you are not taking back the obligation. I don't understand how you didn't foresee the public financial consequences on the basis of this coalition agreement. The bill will be paid by all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Just like you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Back obligations, of course I can't go any further either, so I can't support this government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. However, I would like to ask and point out that the explanation of vote is not intended to raise questions for the mandate-holder, because the mandate-holder is no longer in a position to answer. It's happened a couple of times. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u188	Have a nice hello to all of you. I will vote against the proposed composition of the government, as the last performance of the President has not convinced me. On the contrary, he made my decision. Time does not allow me to play longer, so there are only two fundamental arguments for my vote or vote against. The first, out of a largely 500 announced experts, the mandate holder chose a highly unbalanced composition of the government, both by professionalism, competence, morality, sex, and if you will, even by territoriality. I cannot say that some candidates for ministers in their performances have failed to demonstrate knowledge, leadership skills and have therefore met the expectations and criteria that all citizens and, above all, Members represent when we are talking about the key agents of the executive branch. Some, however, were truly unconvincing and incompetent to perform such a responsible function, according to all the above criteria. Interestingly, at least in my opinion, most of them were running away or did not stress the political capacity and responsibilities they should take in their work. Second argument. In the pre-election performances there are many candidates, some members of the current coalition have now expressed and ensured the need for decentralisation of power in various segments. They even promised to transfer or establish a ministry outside Ljubljana. Some Styrian candidates, where I myself have run, have provided partial territorial representation even in the government, of course, if they succeed in the elections. Now they've made it, but the promises have burst out like tiny bubbles. Yes, Prime Minister, that is the result of and promises, or all of these facts, your coalition Member and my fellow Member, Mr Kangler, have presented to us. Just the day Maribor celebrated the 750th anniversary since it became a city when this Maribor [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Republic of Slovenia, when new faculties are being created at this university, unfortunately, is even more lagging behind in the economic field, has neither Maribor, nor the wider area of Styria, nor Prekmurje, nor Koroška, any minister in the government, and apparently will have none, nor a secretary. [[...]] So my vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Respectable. I will not repeat the debate because we are just ahead of the decision. We've lost a month. We're wasting our time. Wary and calm debate of the Prime Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u191	Please calm down, Mr. Stebe has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u192	She talked me into it. [[...]] If everyone listened carefully, there would be no such debate. Think of the period after four years, then the spark of today's birthdayer who was born today, "but the shoes will be judged by the hooves".
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr Rugelj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I will support this government, I think it will be very good. I'm sorry that this good evening after that "good morning" came too late, for many too late, I hope that this government will correct the mistakes that have taken place so far. Since I was running out of time, I might still have enough to say that in Slovenia there are very few, very poorly developed regions or areas where the average wage in Slovenia, which is now some 160,000, may not even reach 10% of people anymore, and these people find it difficult to tell what the average is. We know what comes from such an average, from a variety of enormously high wages mainly in the public sector. I hope that this government will be able to balance these matters and that this will also go for the lowest wages and the voters who have supported us. Last but not least, the voters supported us because they felt that the existing government had been working poorly so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. I will not support this government, and this is no surprise, nor is revenge or hospitality. Voters have chosen a political option, which should also take responsibility for the government. But this government is not historic to me, with more perspectives. It will certainly not come into history with a positive message about its attitude towards women. Certainly it will not come with a positive message on freedom of reading because what we heard on this happy day of culture today or at the presentation of the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Education does not show that education will become non-ideological, but today it has been reiterated that values will be set that will follow a narrow view of literature, valuable judgements and imposed moral principles that are not moral principles for all. Unfortunately, I cannot agree to such limited promotion of reading culture in Slovenia, where the adult population is not famous for its overdeveloped reading habits and children have well-developed reading habits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u198	Probably my explanation for the voice won't be any special surprise. I must say that with ministers and ministers who refuse to communicate with groups of people who are in a minority in this society, with people whom the Prime Minister claims to have done everything to save a person from the sad end of the injustices that have occurred to him in this country and the whole type of things that could be listed, from the candidate for a minister to the candidates for a minister, I cannot support this government, of course, because the government's programme is so general and full of promises, which ultimately end within the limits of the options given. That is why, of course, I will not vote for the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u200	Thank you, President. Mr President, you have been given a mandate to form a government, you have done the task, I believe, with your best efforts. I estimate that the result is not the best, or you take full responsibility for it, which I do not intend to share with you, but I promise you that I will be responsible for this responsibility. And as I said in my performance, if the concerns that I have listed are then shown to be unjustifiable, especially in the field of foreign policy, of course I will applaud you. So far, the answers you've given don't give me any reason to trust you with my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u202	Thank you. Of course I'll support this government. In fact, I am pleased that from the mouth, explanations of the voice of the opposition people can come to know who they have been dealing with all these years. Amazingly, I'm so happy to see the real face of so highly intelligent, so badly educated people with diplomas. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u203	Mr. Rupar, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u204	Yes, I'm explaining. In fact, I am happy, and I will be even more happy if people realize that there is another face for those who are leaving. Maybe just two. I know you'll remind me again. I'm used to it. Let's say I'm glad to hear the words of Mr. Squeak. I know he's and he's educated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u205	Mr Rupar, please don't argue, for the Member cannot replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u206	I'm not gonna say anything. I just want to say that I'm glad that I want everyone to know that everyone doesn't know everything in this world, that no one was born smart, and I'm also sure that, say, he can't tie his shoes in five ways, I'm 100% sure he doesn't. And after all, it will be time to unplug because I'm not talking to you, Mr. Squeakle, but to a neighbor to disconnect from the state's "flash", bottles with state [[....]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and to start looking into the future, where something else needs to be done, not just to drink milk from the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u207	Mr. Rupel, please. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u208	Once again a nice good evening to you all. Today we've heard so much from the left and the right. Alone, as the principal opposition member of this government, of course, I will not support it. But I want Mr. Janez Janša to lead it well. However, I am also glad that he has been able to do so much that he has sincerely congratulated the government, who is leaving and who has done a lot of good for Slovenia. And so will we after four years. Of course, to all those who spit over the departing team, I would strongly recommend setting the mirror. Because in some congregations and local communities, where the picture is quite reversed, all the negatives that are reported by the LDS are even more and more severe. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will, of course, vote in favour of the proposed ministerial team, because I believe that this is my duty, which has been imposed on me by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in these elections. And here they have also made clear their will to replace the current power or government, if you will, and replace it with a new one. And this new government that we are deciding about today is the result of the will of the electorate. The voters have assessed the government coalition so far and have given it confidence in the elections. Unlike the previous new government, which we confirm today, we still cannot objectively assess what some would like. It will only be possible to evaluate it once it has begun to work. Democratic parties in the world are starting to assess the government after hundreds of days, by unwritten rules. The final assessment will be given by voters in future elections. I therefore recommend to the opposition Members that the proposed ministerial teams should not be evaluated today, but only when this is objectively possible or when democratically appropriate. And that's when the voter contest will begin, which will last until the next election, when the voters will give the final result. However, since it has been mentioned twice in the debate by the Liberal Democracy that one of the candidates is inappropriate for a minister, because he was a soldier, I must say, in addition to what has already been said by the Prime Minister, that no one has the right to renounce ministerial functions just because he once served in the military, as if it were something bad. This would constitute a grave violation of his human rights, guaranteed by the Constitution and the international conventions, not to speak of equality before the law. It is clear, however, that a candidate as a minister will not be a soldier, because he is not a soldier for a long time, but a civilian. And that's why I don't see any reason why the government team wouldn't support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I must say that sometimes I am an incredible puff, but also a lot of ideological blindness, expressed by some of the opposition, convinces me that it is not only the voter's decision that you are the opposition, but that it is literally in Slovenia's national interest that you are more than one mandate in the opposition, that you look at yourself and realize that we are all human beings, that no one can be more than each other and that we are all equal. That is why I will be happy to allow today, with a vote for a new government, the first term of office to break with the opposition. And when I get home, I'll be able to tell my little daughter Larry that Miklavz has brought in a new government and that he's been professionally involved with his escorts so far. And since that escort, as you all know, is usually dressed in a red dress, many of you will actually accept it as a return home, a return to your roots. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u214	Your Honor! Good evening, everyone. Of course, I will support this government simply because I respect the will of the voters and voters on 3 October and the voters are always right. Because I believe in the team of ministers and the Prime Minister, her promises made in this House, which will be held in this four-year term. Because I believe in this coalition and a treaty that brings news in the Slovenian space and many good things also for the benefit of a small citizen, a small man. Because I believe that this future, which this new government will grow in a few minutes or at most an hour, will do everything that this government has not done and will bring progress for Slovenia and, above all, new values will serve the ethical code of all those who participate in the government. Finally, I just want to thank this outgoing government on my personal behalf for all the good she has done in these mandates, but what she has not done, and I believe that the new government of Mr Janez Janša will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister! Any government or any government today would confirm this national assembly would be a government that is facing extremely difficult work. Harder work than all governments so far, perhaps with the exception of the first Demos' government. However, I firmly believe that from the knowledge or behaviour, knowledge of the way this last government governs and the functioning of this last coalition, despite the fact that this government has done a lot of good - thank you for the good, pleasant things, and for the little less pleasant things from which some of us have learned - are facing this government, which we now confirm, entirely different challenges, challenges that the country of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens can bring a lot of good. But what is important is what I expect her to respect are two principles that have not been very respected now. First, to establish a genuine partnership dialogue and to take account of subsidiarity in the governance of the country. I will be happy to support all ministers, not because they were not as professional as was said, but because they also have more or less of the university, life, which means that they have experienced a lot of downfall as well as rising, and therefore, as people, they are willing to accept such great challenges and burdens and responsibilities. I will support the government as a whole, and I wish her well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Starman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister! Maybe some optimistic data. I would say that in June 2000 the Slovenian public debt was 1017 billion. On 30 June 2004, 1548 billion tolars amounted to 550 billion more in the four years that the public debt was due, that guarantees amounted to 261 billion tolars, four years ago, the latest data in force was 30 June 2004, the amount of guarantees given was 471 billion tolars. This is said to have been a calculation that was given, and the groundlessness of this data, of course, could have been, was at an amount of 390 billion tolars. I would not want the new government to solve problems in such a way as to be in an additional debt, so I cannot advise them to do the same as the old government. However, I think there is a huge amount of reserves where we can increase our new value, the wealth of all Slovenians and, of course, the potential for consumption in all areas. I think we have very poor governance in the area of state property, directly state property or in some way parastatal through funds and other institutions where we are inside. We do not control this property, we allow these institutions to operate poorly and achieve poor business results. I think there are many more areas where we can obtain additional resources for our budget and thus make our Slovenia better and more suitable for the lives of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Miss Jeraj has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, I would point to the fact that neither the Minister for Culture nor the Prime Minister will decide on compulsory reading in school, and therefore one of the books set by a professional body at the Ministry of Education and Sport for compulsory reading at school should not be employed by this assembly and some Members who point out this as depending on the future in the next four years. The Coalition Treaty binds those who have signed it and thereby commit themselves to doing everything they can to ensure that the guidelines from it are also implemented. The Coalition Treaty does not bind those who have not signed it. And I am still surprised by this great concern and fear that all the new government will not be able to achieve because it has not entered some numbers into the coalition contract. I am sure that the new government team led by the Prime Minister will do everything in their power to achieve the objectives set by the Coalition Treaty, so I will support it and wish it a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u221	Thank you, Miss Jeraj. I'm asking, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Gantar. Anyone else? Mr. Gantar, you have the floor, please, to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Thank you for that opportunity. Of course, I will not support the proposal for ministers proposed by the Prime Minister. It is simply a government that is in line with this coalition treaty, so that I cannot support it. It's some responsibility I can't take. Our responsibility and my responsibility from now on lie elsewhere. At the same time, however, I must give a certain recognition to the Prime Minister for his closing act. This one was what I expected. Sharp, determined, corrosive, sometimes even cynical. Such as he is, he reminded us of extraordinary meetings, reminded us of corruption, reminded us of similar things and reminded me of the superficial guidance of data and decisions. But I'm not going to talk about it because I don't want to argue because today he can't answer me anymore. However, I certainly think that before every government there is a difficult period, but hiding for something that cannot be done after the other government has been before that, of course, will not last long. Maybe for a while, maybe a few months, a year will be a suggestion. All those here today will have to show what they know, and I seriously wish them happiness and success, because sometimes problems are great and sometimes our knowledge does not reach all that we should do. Mr Starman has shown that it is possible to calculate if he wants to, and so it would be right if a coalition calculation were to be done, but not to postpone this calculation in future times. Once again, I will not support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u223	Thank Mr. Gantar for his explanation of vote. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u224	Dear Mr. President. The esteemed Prime Minister! Messengers and Members! I will vote against this because I did not find consistent answers to my questions in the coalition contract. We didn't even get them on some of them, at least on those hearings I was on. However, if we have already received something, it has been such that I am actually concerned about freedom in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Janša knows well what I'm talking about, you probably know everyone else. It is not just about Vitomil Zupan or about Ludvik Mrzel or about today’s birthday boy, Dr. Frances Prešern, who was also anathemaized. It is also what such behavior, such a attitude, leads to, is what John Tavčar described in the 4000 novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. I find the desire to explain the voice exhausted. That is why we are moving to the vote. First of all, I ask you to check the cards to see if they are properly inserted. We're voting. The vote is under way. We're voting on the proposal. There were 88 votes in favour, with 51 votes in favour and 37 votes in favour. [[Let's hear it.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 37.]] The decision on the government is adopted. I congratulate the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish them a successful ministerial duty. I invite them to take up seats in the hall that are intended for the government. I ask the newly appointed ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first one will be sworn in by Dr. Andrey Bajuk, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u226	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u227	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Janez Christmas, Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u228	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u229	Andrey Bručan, Minister of Health, will take the following oath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u230	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u231	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u232	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u233	The following will be sworn by Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u234	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u235	The following will be sworn by Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u236	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u237	The following will be sworn by Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u238	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u239	The following will be sworn by Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u240	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u241	The following will be sworn by Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u242	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u243	The next one will be sworn by Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u244	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u245	The next one will be sworn in by Dr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u246	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u247	The next one will be sworn in by Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u248	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u249	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u250	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u251	The following will be sworn by Dr. Jure Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u252	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u253	The next and the last will be sworn in by Dr. Milan Zver, Minister of Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u254	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-03-SDZ4-Izredna-04.ana.u255	Because they were Members of Dr. Andrej Bajuk, a specialist at the academic level Andrej Bručan, mag. Janez Petty Officer, mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak and Dr Milan Zver appointed ministers, under Article 14 of the Law on Members, they are temporarily unable to perform their parliamentary functions. I will immediately inform the Republic Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidates will replace those Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the Republic Election Commission, the State Assembly Election Commission will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandates and report on its findings to the assembly. With this respect, honourable Members and honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda and thus conclude the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite all present to the lobby for a short ceremony and a toast.
