ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the honourable Members to occupy their seats. Thank you. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Feri Horvat, Bojan Kontič, Dr. Marko Pavliha by 2 p.m., Maria Possonec, Michael Prevc by 3 p.m. and Matjaž Švagan. The representative of the Republic Election Commission was invited to the meeting at the 1st point, the candidate for the Magi MP. Tomaž Štebeta, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at 3, 4, 5 and 6 points, representative of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia at 7th point. I welcome all the invitees here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. The Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party members propose to withdraw from the agenda the following proposals: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons - an urgent procedure, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure - an urgent procedure and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Service - an urgent procedure. You've received a motion for withdrawal on the bench. I propose that we bring together the debate on all proposals for withdrawal and that we decide on each proposal on a case-by-case basis. Does the representative of the motioners want to withdraw his word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Squeakle on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u2	With regard to the proposal of the SDS Group of Members, New Slovenia and the SLS Group of Members, we would find that there are two colleges in this National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly set the agenda for Monday and all committees were prepared. Yesterday, the Committee met on the proposal of these parliamentary groups. It has been suggested that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy should not be considering and today we have a different proposal. I believe that this should be sufficient and properly presented to the College of the President of the National Assembly on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Potch has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, I would like to point out that in a few days the same majority takes completely different decisions. Perhaps it can be said that this is the least confusing, perhaps irresponsible. Confused by the fact that we were informed at the meeting on 24 September that proposals would likely come and warn that it would be right for candidates for a new government to decide what to do with it in this national assembly. A few days later, on 1.12., a decision was taken at the college, and on 29.11. a decision was taken at the college, and two days later the same majority decided not to consider the laws. Gentlemen, I would ask that those who so decide give greater thought to your first decision to know that you have seriously considered it, that we can believe it, and that others to take responsibility for the consequences. Despite the fact that it is leaving, the Government has warned that the failure to enforce many of these laws, some of which are also linked to the Constitutional Court's decision, may have serious consequences before 1.1.2005. I hope that this study has been done sufficiently, that you know what you have done, regardless of the fact that you have changed your position three times within one week and that we will receive at least from the new government, which will be appointed tomorrow, immediately inform you what to do next in order to avoid these consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. I will split the position of the national party's parliamentary group into two parts, the first part of the event around the colleges. I would like to inform all those Members and Members who did not have the opportunity to participate in the working college that the decision of the College did not reflect the consensus or agreement of all political parties. In the national party, we have not supported the college's decision to determine the procedure around the three tax laws that we are discussing now. I would therefore like to point out that dimension, which has been largely deficient in the last four years, that it makes sense for the college to take into account the views of the parliamentary groups, which represent a small number of Members and Members. If the National Assembly were to follow the decision of the Slovenian National Party to the College or the representatives of the College, of course they would not be in this situation. However, the second dimension or second chapter I would like to present on behalf of the parliamentary group is the content of the tax material mentioned. It is correct, according to our assessment, that the State Assembly today is voting on a proposal that we have received on the table, that is, a proposal from three parliamentary groups, because of the content itself and because we have to admit that the government that has barely done the hearing has not yet been able to determine the substance of the said matter and, therefore, at least in this sense, it seems incorrect to push them into a situation where a particular law assigns them so-called authorship, I emphasise, is attributed to us. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we have probably received a lot of comments in all the parliamentary groups in these days by the taxpayers in physical or legal form on this law, which some of you have tried, and some of you are even today advocating treatment after a reduced procedure. In the national party, we will support the proposal coming to our table by the three parliamentary groups, namely the proposal to withdraw all three agenda items which have a common denominator, this is a tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Sok has the floor on behalf of the new Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! There's something else that needs to be said. Our Group of Members is also among the signatories to withdraw this point. This is also what we proposed yesterday on the Committee on Finance, namely that we stop the discussion on these three laws and move it to one of the next meetings. Of course, I would like to say that the ruling coalition is aware of this and that the procedure will proceed immediately once, as adopted yesterday on the Committee, the new government has given its opinion on these three proposals. Why did we make that decision? Yesterday we listened to an additional explanation from the current government, and I must say that at least the law on amendments and additions to the tax procedure law by Mrs Kolarjevo has been said, and you will also see this in the magnetogram that the amendments adopted in this law have resulted in more inconsistencies both within the law and in other laws. Let me remind you here today that the National Assembly always gets an opinion after the amendments have been adopted, whether the amendments adopted have led to a disagreement or not, and then the law is fully voted on. Yesterday we heard that this relationship due to the amendments adopted in the adoption of the law was broken. The opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, namely the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons and the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Procedure, have also been written in such a way as to take some more time to examine this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We got this opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service on the 30th, which is one night before we decided on it the next day. Even in our Group of Members, we think it is right that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service be examined by the government, which we will most likely examine tomorrow, I am sure, here too, and that the National Assembly will then proceed immediately with the procedure and that these laws, as required by the current Government, as the proposaler, will be proposed, even by the time they are to be adopted. Thank you very much. So we'll support these three points to get out of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Bajc has also been reported on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Even in my name a nice greeting! On Monday, the Slovenian People's Party or its representative at the College did not support the proposal to include these three agenda items in today's meeting of the National Assembly, and for the same reason today we will support the proposal to withdraw these three items from the agenda. However, as a member of the committee, I might add, given that we have received some of these amendments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the position, including some amendments, because there is a substantive change in some of these provisions of these three laws, and even in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission of the National Assembly, also in favour of unconstitutionality, because there is also retroactivity in one of these three laws, so given that these proposals have been made by the Government in leaving, we feel that it is necessary, in relation to such important, at least some articles, to amend the important provisions of this Act, to define a new government, so that we will support the withdrawal of these three items of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on the proposals for the withdrawal of those items from the agenda. I am putting to the vote a motion to withdraw from the agenda a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, a necessary procedure. Before voting, I ask you to see if the cards are inserted and whether the lights on the right are burning. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members present, with 50 votes against 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] The proposal was adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion to withdraw from the agenda for a bill amending and supplementing the tax procedure law, an urgent procedure. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 50 votes against 28. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 28.]] The proposal was adopted. I propose a third motion for a vote: a motion to withdraw from the agenda for a bill amending and supplementing the tax service law, an urgent procedure. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 50 votes against 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that this proposal for withdrawal has also been adopted. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. I therefore propose to the Committee that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference and with the amendments adopted. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] So we're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 67 votes against 5. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the 5.]] The agenda is adopted. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIDATE, WHO IS IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. He's a member of the law on missions to perform the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who took over the government's function. The Republic Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on the acquisition of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Does the representative of the Republican Election Commission want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, as the working body, and submitted to the assembly a proposal for a decision which you received by reference. I give the floor to the representative of the New Slovenia Group of Members to present the position of the Group of Members. [[He's quitting.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "As long as Member Janez Janša holds the office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members cannot act as a Member, he shall carry out this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act from today's magi. Tomaž Štebe, born February 15, 1950, residing in Mengeš, Hribareva 35." We're voting. 79 Members and Members present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I wish Mr. Stabet a pleasant stay in our midst. We're moving to 2. At the time of the day, this is in response to the demands of the assembly of Members that the national assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Economic Companies, EPA 40/4, to be adopted in accordance with the ordinary procedure. At its meeting on 30 November 2004, the College of Presidents decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law submitted by the Government should be examined on a regular basis following an urgent procedure. Within five days of the decision of the College, a group of 18 Members, signed first by Milan Cvikl, requested that the decision of the College be decided by the National Assembly on the basis of Rule 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the College's decision to deal with that bill following a regular procedure, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to the Member of Parliament, Dr Matthew Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Members! The new law on companies with a working name ZGDH essentially aligns Slovenia's legal order with the EU acquis, in particular the regulation which entered into force only in October of this year. It should be pointed out that some shareholders will be forced to apply international accounting standards to consolidated financial statements from 1.1.2005, while, of course, in certain cases, when individual reports are in force in Slovenia's accounting standards, it should be stressed that some of the existing balance sheet laws have been established in contravention of international accounting standards and that some companies, as well as banks and insurance companies, will be forced to use two ways of evaluating business events, causing additional costs to Slovenian companies and banks. Another matter that is also very important is that the thresholds for classifying businesses between small, medium and large are changing. As you know, small and medium-sized enterprises also have preferential treatment in the design of accounting statements. For the third time, it is certainly necessary to emphasise that a so-called European shareholder company is also being established, while at the same time the possibility of using a single or two-track management method is being used. This law is, on the one hand, aimed at harmonising the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union, while ensuring that Slovenian companies operate in a competitive manner towards their international competitors operating in the field of the European Union and, of course, having the option or being forced to apply European legislation. Thus, we estimate that if the emergency procedure had not occurred and the law had not come into force since 1.1.2005, there would be relatively significant damage to Slovenian business entities, which is unnecessary. I therefore suggest that you, honourable Members and Members, support the consideration of this law by urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. There is no discussion and no explanation of vote on this request, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the company law shall be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the ordinary procedure. The 25-day deadline for the submission of an application for a general debate on the draft law starts tomorrow. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm sorry. Tomorrow shall begin the 15-day deadline for the submission of the request. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Court of Justice for Maritime International Law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which prepared an updated proposal for a law. You received the committee's report on the bench. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. He's quitting. As no amendments have been tabled in the supplementary proposal, no third reading of the amendments can be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. IT'S THE PERMANENT VOLUME OF THE DAY. Under this item, the assembly will consider nine proposals of the Judicial Council for the election of candidates in judicial office and a proposal for decisions on the election of members of the National Assembly Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services and on the election of members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the law on the prevention of corruption. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, proposals for decisions on election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted nine proposals for election to the Assembly of State, namely: five District Judges and two District Judges at the District Court in Jesenice, Ljubljana, Slovenj Gradc, Maribor, Ormož and Šmaru near Jelšah and the District Court in Krske and the Supreme Court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Among us is the President of the Council of Justice, Mr Peter Hauptman, whom I welcome very much. You have the floor, Mr. Hauptman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! I thank you for your welcome and, of course, I wish this national assembly, which is now in its new composition, a great deal of successful work. These proposals put forward by the Council of Justice have been explained and, of course, we insist on them, except for one proposal which the Council of Justice subsequently withdrew by letter, because we have received some information that needs to be verified, and this candidature must also be re-examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Hauptman. The proposals were also addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, as the working body of the country and submitted to the assembly proposals for the conclusions you received by reference. The position of the Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The point before us today consists of approximately the beginning of each regular meeting of the National Assembly and takes place on a planned basis. Therefore, in order to avoid a national party representative standing at any regular or extraordinary meeting when we have a mandate-immunity matter, that is to say, to avoid this, today I would like to present the views of the National Party for the future, i.e. to avoid a delay in time. As you know, by means of the system of voting on a proposal by the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function, the National Assembly also confirms a permanent judicial mandate. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, by such certification and by placing its status or by pressing the "for" key, the National Assembly continues the current practice of a permanent judicial mandate. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that a permanent judicial mandate is one of the main reasons for the so-called judicial backlogs, and if the legislative and executive branch of the authorities are to proceed with the reduction of judicial backlogs, the National Assembly should legislate a so-called reduced judicial mandate or a limited judicial mandate. We are convinced within the framework of the Group of Members that if, in our country, the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the various highest representatives of companies, political life and everything else carry out their duties within a given mandate, it would be appropriate to carry out their duties properly, that is to say, without undue delays in business or in our case, that the number of judicial failures would also be appropriate for the performance of the judicial function. In addition, I would like to point out that the National Assembly has dealt with this subject several times on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party. It was very important to deal with 31.5.2001 when, on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, a proposal was made to restrict the judicial mandate for a period of 8 years and with the possibility of repeating this mandate if the judicial backlogs were not exaggerated. At that time, the Slovenian National Party's proposal was supported by the National Assembly. The voting list can be viewed in the computer and elsewhere. We cannot therefore vote in favour of the proposed judges and judges in the National Party because this is contrary to the decision taken by the National Assembly on the judicial mandate and because we are opposed to a permanent judicial mandate in the National Party. In conclusion, and I believe that it will not be necessary to say this over and over again in the case-law of this State Assembly, just to expect the new government to hope to face judicial backlogs more radically than the past government has done, that is to say, in terms of limiting the judicial mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on individual proposals for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Hubert Roth to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation of voice. Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to explain my voice on this occasion. I will vote in favour. I will vote in favour of this proposal because I also want to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia at this point. I am convinced that the constitutional arrangements, which we have discussed thoroughly in the past mandate, have been acceptable and properly regulated by the appointment of judges. The permanent judicial mandate is one of the values of democratic regulation and the division of power. The termination of a permanent judicial mandate could constitute an intervention in the independence of the judiciary to the extent that independence and independence of the trial could be compromised. In recent amendments to the Judicial Service Act, we have made an important change in the evaluation of the work of judges, in the appointment of judges, in the promotion of progress, whereby these decisions are adopted by a two-thirds majority, a two-thirds majority of 11 members means 8 members of the Judicial Council, and in this case 6 judges, as far as they are appointed by judges of their own kind, can no longer represent the majority for which they can say that only judges decide on their own position. Externally, so to speak, the members of the Judicial Council have an important and active role to play in this regard. All of these are the reasons why it is right in principle, unless we have concrete arguments and reasons, we respect the proposals put forward by the Judicial Council, and this is also why I will vote in favour of these and other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Run. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. So we are voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Hubert Roto to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 6. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against 6]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Katarina Parazide to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 70 to six. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I put to the vote the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Jasmine Javornik to the District Court in Ljubljana. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 6. The proposal was adopted. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Judite Stropnik Antavaljak to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 5. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Tatjane Steinman to the Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 6. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Zdravka Groboljška to the judge's seat at the District Court in Krška. Anybody want to explain their voice? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 6. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Dr. Jazna Murgel to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 4. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Smiljan Drevenšk to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ormož. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 66 votes against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The decision is adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Aleksandre Fala to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 66th to 6th votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The decision is adopted. The proposal for a decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services is followed. The electoral proposals were submitted by the parliamentary groups for consideration. I give the text to the representative of the Slovenian People's Party delegation if he wishes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I would like to briefly explain the position of the Slovenian People's Party. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal, because we believe that it is necessary to set up this Commission as soon as possible and with the majority of Members here to confirm that the Commission is starting to work thoroughly, legally and effectively. The supervision exercised by the Commission over the three services is urgently needed, so we also propose to the National Assembly that we accept this today by the majority of all Members, as is necessary under the new Rules of Procedure, in order for all Members on this list to receive the support of the majority of all Members. I am sure that this Commission will work as well as the Commission has done so far, as this Commission, under the chairmanship of Mr Jerovsk, has adopted all the formal legal acts to enable this work to continue effectively, legally and in particular thoroughly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-12-02-SDZ4-Izredna-03.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. There were no other panellists, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Committee for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be adopted if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the anti-corruption law follows. The electoral proposals were submitted by the parliamentary groups for consideration. For the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, a New Slovenia Group took place. [[He's quitting.]] No others have been reported, so I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the anti-corruption law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
