ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day! I begin the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Michael Brejc, Franc Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Ivan Kebrič, Borut Pahor, Alojz Peterle and Majda Širca. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I say hello to the representatives of the government between us! The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure as a mother's labour force, carried out the examination of that law and after a discussion in which we focused our most attention on the issues related to the actual reasons for this change, in particular as regards the question of whether the adopted legal solutions opposed to the newly elected student representative, who, in their view, would contribute to the improvement of student status, would be justified by warnings about the irregular regulation of the scholarship policy and the irregular way of paying tuitions. Special attention was paid to the Committee in the debate by the amendment proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia, which was rejected because its adoption would result in impossible control over who is working through a travel agent and whether the student is a student or how long he is working and so on. In line with what I have said, I suggest that we adopt that law, as it has been submitted to the procedure, with respect to our fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Valentin Pohorec will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We have passed the Income Act just before we enter the European Union, and immediately after that, we get a new amendment to the law or its amendments and additions on the parliamentary bench. The change this time relates to an increase in the special benefit for students from the current 668 thousand to the million 200 thousand. In our Group of Members, we have always expressed the view that taxes and contributions must also be paid. Therefore, at this point, we must point out that the increase in the student benefit will also result in a certain decrease in the country's income of 700 million dollars, as estimated for 2005. We are wondering whether the loss of funds at that level will indeed improve the social situation of students. In our opinion, more than this will mean income for student services and student labour intermediaries who collect 10% of the commission, and an additional 2% collects among others the student organisation of Slovenia and here we also see the direct interest of the student organisation in this change. We estimate that it would be better to otherwise regulate a scholarship policy that would allow a wider range of students to study regularly, thereby reducing the average number of years of study and thus allowing young people to enter the labour market more quickly. Nevertheless, we believe that a transitional law will be proposed until the scholarship policy is resolved differently. We therefore support that part of the law, which provides that employers are obliged to report to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work and tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of students or students through a travel guide. We are confident that the supervision of the competent supervisory authority by this additional provision will be easier and more effective. In view of the fact that the new travel document will also have to contain tax numbers, it will no longer be possible to work on the other person's travel documents. In this sense, we expect to eliminate illogicalities such as the fact that we have 80,000 students in Slovenia and that we have 142,000 recipients of payments through student services. So who's working? Despite our concerns, we will also support the solutions set out in the proposed Article 3, which introduces an exemption from the general rate of indemnification of income that applies to income achieved by carrying out temporary work on the basis of a student's travel contract. This exception is reflected in half the lower rate of income adjustment than usual and will amount to 12.5%. We believe that this will allow those students who come from weaker social backgrounds to survive through the course of the study to have a different post-bolon scholarship policy in a transitional period. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support these proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented to us by mag. Marco Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues! The Income Act or the amendment of this Act is due to provisions of laws that express a deterioration in the situation of students. This was pointed out by the students and achieved a change in the law in the provisions which increases the special personal relief that a resident can enforce, which will be educated and will have student status. It is not inappropriate to point out that, for the purposes of the provisions, we have also warned in this national assembly, both at the committee and at the plenary session, both in the positions of the groups of Members and in the amendments themselves. The change ahead of us today is so expected, and we will support it. We are aware that student work in a way such as that of us, 'unicum' and that it has been established decades ago, with the aim of improving the social situation of students, making it possible to study and educate the less prosperous segments of the population and before employment, so during education, to enable students to acquire work habits and work experience. The demand for this form of work has increased in both students and students in the last decade of the previous century because of all the reasons known to us: the increase in the cost of study, the deterioration of the state of family budgets due to the high unemployment of businesses, and thus the drastic reduction of staff scholarships and other things that could be mentioned. For all these reasons, university work from a tax point of view has always been given special treatment and, in terms of labour costs, has also been competitive for companies or organisations. In addition to the study, a number of students have also gone through their years of study, and many have also been extended in the course of their studies, but this is already a story about the employment of young people, which is far from being solved. The student's status is the one that allows student work. The fact that students have opponents too is clear. The basic reason is one: student work is that which does not fill the pension and disability insurance institution, which has been long since Swiss cheese, and those who think that by abolishing it, it would solve the problem of the pension and disability insurance institution, whose deficit as a separate public sector goes into tens of billions, is utopian. Nor would they have solved the problem of unemployment more seriously. Moreover, student work is used to build or renovate student homes and equip universities, and we do not know the case of building a home for the elderly from pension and disability insurance institutions. The second part of this law is related to the view of this work and the abuse of this work. Despite the fact that we also have a legal framework for this area under the Labour Inspection Act, the Inspection Control Act and more, we can find that inspection controls are obviously ineffective and inadequacy, as despite high penalties, various aunts or uncles without student status are working with a student guide. However, the most competent acts are certainly the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment and the Rules on the conditions for the performance of employment agencies from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which define the work of students and students. This inefficiency of inspection is attempted by the Ministry with the addition of a new paragraph to the Income Act, which is questionable from a systemic point of view and demonstrates the inefficiency or inability of inspection. The employer is to inform DURS and the Slovenian Inspectorate of the work by submitting the instructions that the student or student is on his way to work. Given that the term is likely to be the physical delivery of the document and that we do not know what the penalty for possible non-delivery is, we believe that this control will further deteriorate. What it should be like in everyday life, we do not even imagine that the additional costs and red tape of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the labour inspectorate and employers, but probably the employees, we do not even think. With the amendment that we tabled on the committee itself and which was subsequently withdrawn due to concerns of the legal and legislative service, the legal service states that in Article 133 the Minister has the possibility of issuing sub-legislative acts, but does not have a link with the labour inspectorate, we wanted the Minister of Finance, by means of a sub-legislative act, to regulate in more detail the manner of control both by the DURS and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work in this segment, which is clearly linked and, in our opinion, is flawed in the DURS-inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. However, the non-coordination between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance proves the last sentence, since the mandatory information on the travel agent should have been defined long ago in the Rules on the conditions for the performance of the Agency's activities, not that they are subject to the Income Act. In short, we point once again to the practically difficult to implement provisions and call on the Ministry to provide more detailed supervision on the relation of employers - DURS - an inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Among us are members of the group of pensioners from Turnišč. Nice greeting and welcome to Parliament. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the government, as well as visitors, are warmly welcomed! First of all, I must say that the New Slovenia Group did not support the Basic Income Law for a number of reasons regarding NGOs, but that they are not taken into account in their work, as is the case with legal persons or natural persons who make funds available for such activities. Clearly, this initiative to amend the law has taken place because of the threat posed by a referendum by some persons. I think that this is not the right way, the right way is to take into account the serious comments made by students and student organisations for a coherent solution to the law when we adopted the Income Act. Thus, we now have the correction of inadequately resolved proposals or the situation in the country. In addition, certain things should certainly be changed in terms of student work, because the European Union has warned us that something in this context could be in the sense of unfair student work competition. Student work is an important source of income for some people to study. For many employers, this is a convenient shortcut for them to work at the expense of student travel for many others. When we looked at the amount of work done and converted it into full employment, it amounts to between 20,000 and 25,000 jobs. Now, whether there's really so many students studying 25 000 or there's something else going on between them. Therefore, provisions that somehow help the government to monitor that student work will be carried out as it is, we support this intention in New Slovenia and agree with it. Others are, of course, concessions intended for those who provide work. There's been a lot of writing about concessionaires, at least some who make quite a lot of greasy profits at the expense of a student's work. At the same time, we should ask ourselves, what is actually the 'number' that so many students have to work. Does the student policy in our country not count? One of the basic postulates and preconditions for a fair society is equal entry into the educational system and the same possibility of education. On the basis of this, people get an education and then they also compete in the labour market for the same jobs. If we sin at this stage, then we sin at the fundamental postulate of righteousness. It's just a modern approach in the world. We should ask ourselves, therefore, how many students are forced to work to survive but cannot complete education at the same time, so our average schooling time is increasing or disproportionately high compared to other countries in Europe or elsewhere. So paying tuition for an extraordinary study, when it's not an extraordinary study at all. Many students are enrolled in the meaning of an extraordinary study because they could not be enrolled under regular conditions, although they do not work anywhere, but they must survive. And then it's their way of survival. What about the student beds? 4,000 have already been promised by the government, and I think six years in Ljubljana - they are not built. And that's why they're forced to pay for expensive rooms in private. Ljubljana has become very expensive as regards purchases of apartments, rents of apartments, rents of student rooms or student rooms. So these are the things that should be settled in addition to this law, in addition to these solutions. This amendment of the law is certainly necessary, but is not sufficient. And that, of course, suggests that we need to look back at the Income Act and check all the solutions that also apply to the student population or even to the diocese population. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which may be ours, which must be and which is a perspective for Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u10	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary, Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we were convinced and are still convinced that the basic starting points and objectives that have been prepared and for the creation of a new income law that will enter into force since 1.1.2005 were also the appropriate basis for solutions to tax the income of students and students achieved by work through an organisation that carries out the activity of intervention of students and students. Therefore, I can say that we were somewhat surprised that the student organisation of Slovenia, in its re-decision on the Income Law, expressed disagreement with the resolution of the law relating to the taxation of student income achieved through the work of student organisations. Finally, this is confirmed by our assumptions from the very explanation in the Financial and Other Impact Assessment; what has already been mentioned today, since, last but not least, there have been a total of 142.607 taxpayers with gross income of 81.2 billion through that form. The negotiations with the Government have been agreed by preparing a new law, which, while we will support in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, gives us a guarantee to supplement Article 1, paragraph 3, which speaks, of course, of the fact that a new approach will also be put in place in this regard, a new way of abuse of work through the travel of authorised organisations providing work to students, students and with the aim of ensuring easier supervision by the competent authority. I must say that these were also the basic arguments on the basis of which we have also drawn up this opinion and also for this decision, so that with regard to the addition of the third paragraph or the new fourth paragraph to this amendment, we also agree with the addition of Article 1, since then this threshold of taxation, if I may say so, increases to a million two hundred thousand dollars, and that the so-called expected revenue will also be reduced for the calculation over the year. As I mentioned, we will also support the amendment of the law by the Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, good afternoon. I will say what we have already said in the Slovenian National Party at the time of the adoption of the whole income law. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this law has been and is still bad, since, last of all, it is not just our opinion, here I have a lot of non-conclusions of different organisations from the State Council to the Chamber of Commerce, to the opinion of employers and employees. All right, so much has been said about this, and unfortunately, there is only one correction today. There is nothing wrong with the fact that experts and those preparing the law assess the need to amend or supplement the law on income at the expense of student organisations. It is wrong that many other segments of this law concern the content of this law, but these other segments remain hidden in the shadows and have not been taken into account, I will say in mind or in concrete terms: farmers, and others I could count. On the Committee on Finance, I have here a collection of assessments and opinions submitted by members or by articles written in six or eight, where there are mainly negative opinions. Meaning, members of the committee paid the highest attention to issues relating to the actual reasons why the government has given up pressure on the student organisation. At the time of the adoption of the new Income Act, the government firmly defended the correct arguments against the student proposals. These are all the opinions and assessments of the Committee on Finance. According to the opinion of the discussers, the legislation in force makes it possible to blackmail minorities. The question whether the Government intends, if it is acceptable for it to do so, to give in the same way to other requirements. The Committee’s opinion was expressed that the proposed solutions concern in particular students whose work through student service provides an alternative to employment, etc. - I believe that you and your colleagues have read all these assessments of the Finance Committee. In fact, it is very difficult to make decisions at this time, and I know - show anyone who would object to facilitating or increasing tax or tax limits for students. No one's against us, I'm sure they don't. It's right that students work, and it's right that they can somehow survive, that many actually pay with this money and the tuition and the apartment, etc., and it would be unfair to say no. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, it is also actually unfair because there are a lot of other unresolved things in other structures of people in different areas that are unresolved in this law. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, but, clearly and loudly, colleagues and colleagues, we warn, unfortunately, there will probably be nothing more to do in this mandate. Many warnings were made on the income law, but most of these warnings did not come across the open ears. And I think that we must all be so honest together when we say goodbye in this term, perhaps we will meet again in the next, that we will actually assess that this law needs to be rewinded and corrected. So, as I said, I am finishing: the Slovenian national party will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Once again, we warn: let us be so much and leave an inheritance or a task to our colleagues that we blow up this law and prepare it for all segments the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In order to avoid the issue of compliance with the Republic of Slovenia's EU commitments, as part of the law before us which should enter into force and which is bound by the tax procedure law also relates to the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of entry into the EU. For these reasons, related to the broader objectives of reforming the tax system, this is equal treatment of the income of natural persons, while reducing taxation by about 10%, we support the decision in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group to amend the income law with the content agreed with students' representatives. The proposed amendment will, on average, reduce the tax burden on taxable persons with these benefits. That is, for students and students who will have incomes of 1 million 361,000 tolar in 2005 and will be supported by family members, their income will be completely untaxed, which means that the available income will increase by around 7%. For students who will not be supported by family members, taking into account other benefits, there will be a total non-taxable income of 1 million 600,000 tolars or an increase of 1.5% in the available income. In view of the greater effectiveness of control over the performance of the student work, the law prescribes ongoing reporting to employers, which is justified and reasonable in terms of the benefits proposed. For all these reasons, we will be Members of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to amend the law on income support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Also, please choose the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you for your words, Madam President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Income Act proposed by the Government as a proposaler, following a reduced procedure, is the biggest non-trust of the government and the Minister of Finance in the field of taxes we have received in this mandate. In our parliamentary group, we have always pointed out the inadmissibility proposed by the Minister of Finance with his expert team in the new Income Act. Nevertheless, a reliable majority of coalition parties supported the law. More under the pressure of party discipline than on our own conscience, to which we Members are committed. I think there are several Members in this assembly who have not been satisfied with the adopted law and would not have supported it if we should vote as they think. While certain solutions in the law are good, the law is largely such that it already causes negative reactions, particularly in the capital market. In view of the limited time, I mention only one obvious consequence - i.e. all natural persons who, under the new Income Act, could qualify as holders of the majority equity share, sell their shares in order to avoid any payment of capital gains tax after 1.1.2005. As shareholders, we will receive mostly legal persons, and a clear ownership picture will be very blurry. Of course, this is just one case. Today we have another case ahead of us, the question of course of the solution of income and taxation of student work. We agree with the proposed amendments in the Group of Members, in particular with the second paragraph of Article 1. Of course, we have already advocated the proposed amendments in the parliamentary group when it comes to the adoption of the law. We tabled the necessary amendments, but at the time such an effort was unsuccessful. We are therefore pleased that the government has finally found a mistake and in this mandate, since it has also proposed appropriate amendments to the Income Act for this field of student work. However, the proposed amendments are not sufficient. There are many derogations in other areas. That is why we expect in the parliamentary group, of course, in this mandate in vain, but that the new government will, of course, remove any deviations that have already been clearly set before the introduction of the new Income Act when adopting the law. Here, of course, we cannot forget the Minister's promise to re-decision the adoption of the law, that, of course, the government will review all the derogations in this mandate and come up with appropriate solutions. Unfortunately, there is only one area in which we are happy, but we expect solutions in other areas as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote at 12.45 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. In a few minutes, we will also move to the agenda at 10.45 a.m., which is the consideration of the proposed law on the abolition of the property transformation agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. So we continue at 10.45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u18	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. And we're moving on to DEBT 15. Agenda items, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the termination of the Republic Agency of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation of enterprises - a closed procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I very much welcome the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia among us. I would like to take the floor with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Helena Kamnar to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members. In fact, the law on the abolition of the audit agency is due to the fact that the tasks related to the revision of the property conversion have been completed and therefore the Agency involved must be terminated or ensured that its operation ceases. The audit procedures are fully completed, and some proceedings are still pending before the courts, which will be taken over by the State's Attorney General's Office, which is also enshrined in the law. Workers who have been employed in the Agency have already come to the tax office fully and have been employed there and both officials are out of office so that the issue is also from a human resources perspective is non-problem. I suggest that the law, as it was put before you for consideration, you also accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body, and the Committee's report is on the table. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. My word, Mag. Janez Drobnič to present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The government's well-happened representatives. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Revision of Property Transformation of Enterprises has completed the business audit programme and has also found a few decades of damage to state property or after the current terminology of social property, but, as usual, those indisputable complaints have not been filed or prepared, but have not reached the right end so that those who have, of course, owned by their own means and unlawfully, even find themselves before the time of justice. Master Anica Popovic warned in the debate that - and she also - had sought to identify, eliminate, and punish the perpetrators. They've prepared the necessary documentation at the agency. Indeed, some of the violations have been resolved, including the restitution of property, and many things have not yet been done. However, as has already been said, the prosecution has not prepared the necessary complaints, although the agency had very good documentation to enforce in court. That is why Nova Slovenija then proposed to the Committee on the Economy to assess the Attorney General's responsibility in the context of carrying out the Property Transformation Review, whether everything was actually done in the manner prescribed by the law or not. So, the responsibility initiative has been given to the government, and this initiative has also been adopted by members of the ruling coalition, but the government has not addressed this proposal and clearly ignores the decision of the national assembly. The audit agency is now being terminated, which we believe is premature, because the proceedings in the courts have not yet been concluded. They claim that they will do all the necessary things, namely, the defence attorneys, the state's attorney, who will represent the state in the courts. The material also says that there are remaining outstanding disputes from the debt-supply relationship and labour disputes. Among the outstanding cases is the case of Geoplin. This included representatives of the Slovenian Development Society and the Ministry of Economy, Mr Šuštar, and at the Slovenian Development Society, Mr Jaklin, who found that there was no social or state property in Geoplin to prepare, of course, the right path for the transit transfer of property to private persons. They didn't stand for what they were set up to protect state property. And as we have seen then, Mr Jaklin, who was the author of this, then came to the management of Geoplin. And let me tell you some more information; now we are considering the exchange of ownership between Geoplin and the thermoelectric heating plant in Ljubljana, so that the traces are wiped out. By the way, we can also mention that we have passed the law on the abolition of the Slovenian development society, although we have been vehemently opposed in the New Slovenia parliamentary group. In this way, the traces of illegal and unlawful acts in property transformation processes shall be deleted. So that's what this country is doing. Of course, this Slovenian development company has created a successor, DSO or DSU, something similar to that of public or state interest. In the meantime, this continuity is, of course, terminated in order to ensure that one and the same company retains state ownership in order to protect state property. Clearly, there is no interest in the government, at least not at the level required. That is why we do not support the proposal of the law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, government representatives! The proposed law is also intended to formally complete the process of owning former social property and to find that property transformation in Slovenia is completed. The proposer of the law, the Government, this proposal is also based on the relevant reports of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, which, at its meetings, examined the analysis of the audit procedures and their results and confirmed that the Agency's functioning has been successful and efficient and the analysis is adequate and that irregularities in the property transformation have been investigated to a satisfactory extent. So on a formal level, everything is fine and fine. Or it's substantively true, but it's another question. The proposed laws can therefore be adopted, at least in the light of the work done recently by this agency, it is no longer necessary. However, at this formal decision, I think it would be only right to say a few brief substantive observations on the issues of ownership of social property in Slovenia. First time. An important part of the social property was acquired by the law on denationalisation. It is right to reiterate the position of the United List of Social Democrats that denationalisation was a strong political one, not an economic project, that it has caused and caused a lot of problems and conflicts, since after 10 years it has not been concluded that Slovenia's taxpayers will end up costing enormously, as a huge sum - several billion euros of the obligation of Slovenia's compensation company - will then have to pay the budget as soon as possible. Finally, it also caused job losses and many new injustices. Another time. An important part of former social property was acquired through the housing fund of the law. With it, the owners of the apartments became agents of housing rights for a substantial amount of compensation. However, not the holders of housing rights in denationalized apartments that have been placed in an unfair and unequal situation. Slovenia has the most private housing fund under the law, the housing purchase has not been fully used, and Slovenia is now facing a serious problem of how to solve the problem of non-profit and especially social housing, although the new law of these two categories formally no longer separates. And finally. With regard to business ownership, it is right to say that the main problem is not only in the implementation of the law that went through the determination of the Agency's value, but that, at least in the United List of Social Democrats, there are at least two major shortcomings in this system that need to be highlighted. The first is the making of ownership with certificates. For them, as at least for the minimum recognition of the right to property on the basis of the contribution to the creation of this social wealth, the certificates were distributed, but on the basis of certificates, the differences in value acquisition were so large that we can say from 0 to several times. However, the rules for long-term citizens and citizens have been evaluated several times, especially since the government was not prepared to provide the necessary funds in the previous mandate and we have ensured this only at the beginning of the mandate. Certificate ownership was carried out substantially differently than promised, and we can say that for most people it was a fraud. Second. In spite of many warnings, security guards were not installed to prevent even 50% discounts at a significant price, with a strange chain of credits, bank bond rights and stock value on the stock exchange, small groups of people from acquiring disproportionate assets, but with the knowledge that the system allows it, there was no willingness to act. This too has to be said at the end of ownership that everything would not only go well [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President Irma Pavlinič Krebs, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me just one sentence of apology for the previous point to the chairman of the committee, there was a so-called "lapsus lingue" or a eloquent error, I should say that the assessments were made by members of the committee, not by the committee. I hope that the Chairman of the committee, of whom I am also a member, will accept an apology. Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on the abolition of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation of enterprises is before us. And for starters, dear fellow Potč, it rarely happens, but this time, everything you said, you were right, so I will not repeat these things that you have already said. However, the fact is that the Agency has completed the audit programme, at least that is the assessment of the property transformation of enterprises, and the opinion is that the needs for which the Agency is to be established have ceased. In the Slovenian National Party, we are just wondering what is wrong with unfinished cases in legal disputes and unfinished disputes from debt-trust relations. While the explanation states that pending legal disputes and administrative disputes should be transferred to another existing state authority. This doctrine is "very strange", but later we can understand among the goals and principles that this is supposed to be the state's defence. I think that - speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - this question is not as irrelevant as it seems from the explanation itself. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that all such and similar disputes should be completed and then discontinued by the audit agency of the Republic of Slovenia. But if we believe - and we have to believe - in this country's legal system, we must also believe in promises that unfinished work will be done by the State's defence - I say, we must believe, now, how and how much we can believe in it is the question. That is why I said at the outset that I absolutely agree with some or almost all of the statements made by my respected colleague Potræ before me. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not object to the draft law on the abolition, but once again I stress the scepticism that we have in order to be fair and right, that the whole work, that is to say what remains, as stated, of the unfinished legal and debt-related disputes, will also end within the framework of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, but we will, believe, closely monitor whether they will be completed, as set out in the objectives, principles and solutions of the law, by the State's defence. We're not gonna forget that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support this law, as the adoption of this law also closes the process, which lasted almost as long as the old Slovenian state. It was the property transformation of companies, for the period in which so-called social property was acquired by its owner and with which it started normally - in terms of normal and also otherwise normal - business operations, as was the case with the changes in 1990. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the proposed law by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because the amendments adopted on the home labour body followed the opinion of the legislative and legal service and the time delay that took place due to the later consideration of the proposal of this law in the National Assembly. We are convinced that by adopting this law we are ending the period of privatisation and entering a new, even more successful, economically successful period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Also, please choose the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we agree with the Government that it is necessary to abolish the Agency for the Revision of Property Transformation of Enterprises, which carried out only property audits under the Law on Property Transformation of Enterprises. In a formal sense, control over the administrative phase of ownership is unnecessary. However, the remaining tasks should be taken over by the State's Attorney's Office. The second is the issue of control over other forms of privatisation of state property under other laws, in particular the Public Finance Act or the areas of law, which include certain companies still in majority state ownership. So why is the motioner rushing to the last session of the National Assembly before the elections? In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that we need much more effective control over the sale of state property, both real and financial. We are also aware that it is not just the need to revise sales, but also to create much more sophisticated mechanisms to decide what to sell, what to sell, what to sell, what to sell, especially when selling property shares from companies, public companies and monopolies. The abolition of the Agency for the Revision of Enterprise Property Change gives an impression, especially before the international community, that privatisation is over with us, but we all know that some activities are still in dominant state ownership, which is totally incomprehensible and certainly detrimental to their development. The fact is that the so-called social property has only been formally redistributed into the so-called quasi state property through, of course, the dominant state funds. Such a message does not appear to be publicized, for it is indeed a matter of misdirection. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will require the adoption of a law that will specify the activities to be privatised, the methods of privatisation and the form of control over these procedures. In doing so, we will insist that civil society and the media play a key role. The completion of privatisation will certainly be one of the key tasks of the future government. This is also recognized by some political circles that want to force the government to respect some national important economic champions, which certainly does not smell like the continuation of reforms in terms of market economy development, which should be based on greater competitiveness, innovation, a higher level of added value, the use of knowledge, but mainly on the search for an alliance with political power centres, where Slovenia would be on state subsidies and in the search for a privileged position on the market. In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose the development of such an economic model, which also occurs in some other European countries, but we are convinced that the best way to build an economic model on the common European market is to create a Lisbon strategy, which says it is essential for the European Union to create conditions in which businesses can grow independently and where managers will decide on the basis of consumers' wishes, not on the basis of bureaucratic dictatorships. Only such companies will be able to increase the competitiveness of the European Union. In the process of creating a new economic model, it is necessary to seek the consent of all the social partners and of course also civil society. A very important segment of this process is certainly also the process of privatising state property And in the end, of course, the question is, Do we really not need any more institutions to control privatisation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The legislative vote will take place today in the framework of a vote of 21.45 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. At 11 a.m. and 20 minutes, we will move on to the agenda item 17 – this is for the consideration of the report of the Constitutional Commission under Rule 180 of the Rules of Procedure. So we continue at 11:00 and 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let's get back to work. We're moving on to Treatment 17. It's on the record reports from the 180th Constitutional Commission. Member of the Chamber of Commerce. At its 47th extraordinary meeting on 23.6.2004, the National Assembly adopted two positions amending Articles 121 and 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the positions adopted, the Constitutional Commission has examined the proposal for a constitutional law, which has not been adopted by a majority of the votes required, and has therefore prepared a report to the assembly and at the same time proposed to it for adoption a proposal for a decision under the second paragraph of Rule 180 of the Rules of Procedure, proposing to the National Assembly that the constitutional procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution be terminated. I invite the rapporteur of the Commission, Mr Francet Tsukjat, to present the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u32	Nice greetings to all present! At its third urgent meeting on 30.6.2004, the Constitutional Commission considered the working text of the draft constitutional law amending Article 121 and Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was prepared on the basis of the views adopted by the National Assembly on the draft constitutional law amending Article 121, Article 140 and Article 143 of the Constitution. This is about articles referring to local self-government, in particular Article 143 on the regionalisation of Slovenia or on the establishment of regions. The Constitutional Commission, of course, voted first on the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 121 and 140 of the Constitution and did not support it by a two-thirds majority as required by the Rules of Procedure. Taking into account the discussions at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission and the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission also decided, pursuant to Article 180(2) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal for the following decision: The procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution has been completed and the proposal has been adopted by the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, following the final examination of this report under Rule 180(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the following decision be adopted: "The procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution shall be completed." At the same time, you have also received a report on the outstanding procedures for amending the Constitution, namely those articles referring to national symbols, the legislative referendum and the judiciary. The Constitutional Commission notes that these procedures are not completed, are not completed and that the possibility of hearing them within the next term is opened up. It therefore proposes that the Constitutional Commission also adopt this finding by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the groups on the report and the proposed decision. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u34	I welcome all present. In Novi Slovenija we agree with this report and accept it as such. Good thing it's like that. We are convinced that this is our victory, the victory of many Slovenians who are aware of what it means to establish a political landscape from above. We note, however, that the ruling coalition at the time of its participation did not do what it intended to do in the area of the establishment of the provinces. Otherwise, in Novi Slovenije we consider that Article 143 of the Constitution and thus connection with Articles 121 and 140 do not have to be deleted. The present 143rd Article is written in such a way that the Constitution does not provide for the compulsory establishment of a wider local community, a province, but, on the basis of this Article, the municipalities may decide and connect independently, either to the provinces or possibly to other wider self-government local communities, with a view to regulating common matters. The municipalities may be associated with a project. The desire to establish the provinces for the purpose of this ruling coalition was mainly the establishment of political associations, more or less the political motivation of the left and means an attempt to control local self-government. In Novi Slovenija we understand it mainly as a plan to weaken local self-government. It is said in a small congregation where they proved to be very successful. This was not about the realization of economic social or other developmental reasons, but about the provinces as political creations that are then controlled from a centre. In short, another degree of centralisation. If the government in this area really wanted to create the provinces, it should allow the development of local self-government. In order to unite congregations in the provinces, however, the government should do more than just submit a draft law on the provinces. You had a large enough majority in the National Assembly. I mean the government coalition, you still have it to adopt this law. But you obviously don't know what the provinces are supposed to do. But above all, you don't know how to finance them. The draft law on the provinces, which was adopted in the 1999 National Assembly and the tasks to be performed by the provinces, has written broad and vaguely. What the landscapes are supposed to be all along, is an undefined assumption that raises many questions and many confusions in people. [[...]] In our party we also see one of the main reasons why the regulation of this area of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia has not moved from a dead point because the tasks were more or less unclear. The biggest drawback to this draft law adopted by the previous Parliament was the area of funding. The law stated, inter alia, that the province was financed by its own resources. What kind of assets is it supposed to be? The law didn't provide for it. Next. The province is also expected to be financed by the funds of local communities. These resources of the local communities, which are growing smaller, are probably meant to be the main financial share in the operations of the provinces. We believe that the financing plan thus set up is unclear and that it has raised many concerns, as well as justifiable opposition to the financing of the provinces, which is to be done to the detriment of the municipalities. The state would simply transfer municipal funds to the province and thereby weaken the work of local communities. That's what we warned our client about. The fact that in Slovenia, for the purpose of the operation of local self-government, about 4% of gross social product - which is the least among the EU Member States or after this proportion on the tail itself - is the main reason why in Nova Slovenija we oppose the change of the constitution and we have also made a decisive contribution that the change of the constitution has not been adopted. We do not need provinces with directly loved provincial councils and provincial heads. Such a solution would greatly increase the administrative structures in the country and would mean an increase in red tape, which is already too much. The government convinces the public that it is necessary to establish the provinces for reasons of centralisation. Centralisation is intended to be the result of the division and formation of many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, as an opposition party, we cannot agree to this argument because it is insurmountable and without basis. If anything is to blame in the Republic of Slovenia for excessive centralisation, which is actually excessive, it is the government's or the government's coalition's fault, not the formation of small municipalities. Government and ruling coalition legislates a number of bureaucrats [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Every day it brings new and new demands to citizens, as they are increasingly centralising. [[...]] I'm sorry I can't finish everything that's written. Otherwise, as I said on behalf of the Group of Members, we support.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much! The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u36	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we will therefore decide that the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution is concluded. This is indeed a sad moment for all those who believe that the adoption of the proposed constitutional amendments to these three articles would constitute the foundation stone for the building of the named province. Some of you have openly opposed the change and the regionalisation of Slovenia. However, some of them in this hall, who have defended the provinces, have at the same time done all that constitutional changes have stuck to the dead. In the United Social Democrats Group, we agreed with the government's representatives that the amendment to Article 121 could also be adopted without amending the other two articles of the Constitution that were proposed. The amendment to Article 121 was also intended to allow the deconcentration of state tasks to administrative areas. As of the date of the adoption of the amendments to Article 121, we will therefore continue to prevent further reform of the state administration, and not only the tendency for the provinces to carry out a certain part of the tasks of the state administration. It would be necessary to amend all three articles of the Constitution in order to create landscapes as autonomous local communities that will carry out the tasks of wider local importance beyond the capacity of municipalities and at the same time regionally important matters defined by law. Only a comprehensive change would allow the adoption of laws that will fully regulate the establishment, jurisdiction, financing and organisation of the provinces. This is also agreed by an expert group which has a negative attitude towards such partial regulation of the area of local self-government at the constitutional level. They also think the same in the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Our story, which would enforce the regionalisation of Slovenia and the country as a whole, divided into provinces and thus enforce the principle of subsidiarity, decentralisation and better regional development, which would exceed mere inter-ethnic cooperation, has therefore failed the piano. Finally, let me thank all those in the government who have tried and insisted on regionalism. Everything is therefore ready and we have only the hope that the next composition of the National Assembly will allow for the introduction of the provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. This moment - colleagues, colleagues - the report was clear. We agree with the finding in the Slovenian National Party. You probably already know that we had a positive view of amendment 121 and 140. It is mostly stuck under Article 143. Allow me to briefly restore our starting points. According to the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a constitutional law provided a positive answer to three questions. For the first time, in proposal 121 of Article 121 or amendment, this was a positive consequence, of course, if adopted, to present changes in the area of decentralisation. It is true, however, that in the Slovenian National Party, both in this regard and in Article 140, we have stated clearly and loudly that in the dictatorship, which is also written in the draft, which it has made or in the proposal of the Constitutional Commission, we could quietly leave out the word "may". According to the Slovenian National Party, Article 121 could be read: by law or on the basis of law or natural persons they are given public authority to perform the functions of the State Administration. The word "may", which would very much like to avoid, at least in the Slovenian National Party, remains in this proposal. The same view is expressed that it would also make sense in article 140 to release the word "may" and the amendment would read: "After the prior consent of the municipality, the State shall, by law, transfer to the municipality the performance of individual tasks under State jurisdiction." Another change that we would very much like to see in the Slovenian National Party is that the second part of the sentence of this Article should read: "If adequate or sufficient resources are provided for this, not only if funds are provided for this." I think that appropriateness and adequacy have an expression, it has a great meaning, and it means a great deal. In the Slovenian National Party, we want and want the process to continue to change as soon as possible. It is true, however, that we are once again expressing a scepticism that has always been true for us to fear that political will is stronger than the desire to change the landscapes of the 12 years. We estimate that it would not be good if the political will of the government, any one that has been or will still have more power than the desire to organise the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, we want these changes. I hope that some proposals can also be examined during this time. Therefore, to exclude the word “may” be a little more specific and also to give meaning and content to the means by indicating the appropriate or sufficient means. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u40	Again, thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party regrets in some way that there has been no harmonisation of the texts, that there has been no realisation of the idea of facilitating the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia. The current constitutional system foresees that the provinces are set up from below to unite the municipalities in the province. In this and in the previous term, we already had quite a few such congregations, communities that agreed that they wanted to establish a province, but failed in the National Assembly, were unable to persuade the National Assembly to adopt such a law establishing a province. On the other hand, the government has never before offered to the municipalities certain rules of the game, certain conditions, as the future province operates. So that the congregations themselves do not know whether to unite, what awaits them in association, and under what conditions they will later act as provinces. Thus, the constitutional provision on the establishment of the provinces remained and was raised in the air. It's probably really good to give some new impetus to establishing landscapes. In order to include a top-down element. However, we have received in the National Assembly a proposal from the government, which excludes municipalities from the establishment of the provinces and provides only from the top down. It is said that the provinces are to be established by decree, by law to be adopted by the National Assembly. Regardless of what the congregations think about it and whether they want to be in this or that province. From above it brings simplification of the establishment of the landscapes, ensuring that everything will be unified in all the provinces and ensures the management of the provinces from the centre of power - that is to say - from the government. We wanted to find an intermediate solution. We also wanted the municipalities to participate in establishing the provinces, not only with an opinion, but also with some level of codecision. Oh, I'm sorry we didn't make it. There's been no sync. The majority of the government has not accepted our proposals to find some local variant. That's how it all worked out in the air. With regard to the other articles, and with regard to the other initiatives to amend the Constitution, the only success we have achieved in this mandate with regard to the amendment of the Constitution were the European members. Here it came from government parties to understand that to achieve a two-thirds majority of all Members, however, some of the opposition's wishes and some of the opposition's initiatives also need to be respected. We have found an appropriate solution that stands, which the professional public has also welcomed and accepted and assessed as a good solution. So the European articles were adopted as is the case in the adoption of the Constitution. With regard to the other proposals we had in this mandate, I believe that they have experienced a fiasco that they have failed. We have received some insignificant little things that are not worth talking about and which are too bad that they are even burdening the booklet on the Slovenian Constitution. But they were accepted. However, we have not adopted provisions on the formation of a government. We're sorry. This system we now have is not the best. Once again, the government has proposed a completely different, extremely unacceptable system. She did not insist and was not prepared to make our comments, which wanted to correct another extreme and find some interim modern solution for appointing a government, simplifying the appointment of a government and strengthening the effectiveness of the government. The government's manoeuvre space would be expanded as it is also in our interest, ensuring the efficiency and up-to-date of the government. But it didn't happen. Regarding the judiciary, the government proposed and then the government's parties proposed a solution that was largely acceptable to us. Just one small comment, one small matter we've proposed. Finally, government parties even withdrew from their proposal. So that there are no improvements to the judiciary, and our judiciary would need them in some way. We are well aware of how it works, and that with regard to the assessment of the public and the confidence of the public, our judiciary is, in fact, practically at the bottom of the trust scale. Next, let me mention the legislative referendum and questions about the referendum. This is also an area that should be made more clearly, which would also need to be amended by the Constitution. We're just an initiative, we've welcomed the approach ourselves. However, we wanted to maintain the provision outlined in Article 3 of the Constitution that we have the authority of the people and that the referendum is the only direct way to implement this constitutional provision. Again, we have not been able to find the solutions that the legislative referendum would put in place, to restrict it to a narrower circle, to a narrower framework where the legislative referendum would, however, play its role of ensuring that we have the power of the people. Nor has this amendment been adopted. In adopting the Constitution - if we consider the European articles - government parties acted in such a way, accept or leave it. I don't think that's the way. Although government parties have such a high number of votes in the National Assembly, so large a majority. But the Constitution is something else. The Constitution requires a two-thirds majority of all Members to find consensus and also to agree with the opposition. Even for the opposition. Here, too, it has been shown that the opposition is, in fact, accepted as most media continuously from day to day, by the daily media, where the opposition is repeatedly portrayed as a disrupting factor and not as a state-created element which in fact makes it difficult for the government, the national assembly and the whole system to function. Unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve such a level of political culture in order, however, to change the constitution in those parts where the constitution would also need to be. That's what we're about. We will accept the conclusion that the procedure is closed. Some procedures have not been completed. In short, the choice is what we can expect from the political culture that rules our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much! Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u42	Your Honor! There is no point in talking about other proposals to amend the Constitution, which have not received adequate support. However, I would like to say a few words in particular about the proposal to amend Articles 121 and 140 and 143 of the Constitution. Today is actually a sad day, as the procedure in this mandate is concluded. I hope that the second term will be better. After ten years of efforts to decentralise the country, it is clear that it has been demonstrated who really is for the decentralisation of Slovenia, for polycentric development and for equitable development, and who repeatedly places obstacles and demands, irrespective of previous arrangements. It was clear that the decentralisation of Slovenia, especially in the part of the transfer of state functions to a lower level, cannot be done without a change of constitution. This was assured by the profession. This was assured by all those who really know each other. Unfortunately, we couldn't take a step further. As a political compromise, the National Assembly was presented with a proposal on the two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present for the adoption of the law on the provinces and the adoption of the law on the financing of the provinces. The Constitutional Commission, as the result of a political compromise, has also proposed that the National Assembly, before deciding on the establishment of the province, should call on the municipal councils in the area of the province envisaged to give their opinion on the establishment of the provinces. All these things were required and incorporated into the compromise proposal. In the LDS, we supported this compromise, despite the fact that we were aware of the dangers posed by constitutional arrangements that would in some way only allow the establishment of the province, but would not correspond to all the functions that the provinces or the wider local communities should also have or need. We were aware that this way could actually reject the further process, slow it down and that we would have even more blockades embedded in the system than we have now. However, we have taken this decision, we have wanted to establish a dialogue, a compromise. But it didn't work. I said, however, that at least in our House of Representatives, we would accept these obstacles, these kind of built-in blockades in a desire to move from a dead spot and to implement an arrangement whereby local self-government would be carried out in two levels, namely in municipalities and in the provinces. At the same time, the country could transfer more of its functions to these provinces, which would take place both for the population of municipalities and in the state function. We have heard the most incredible arguments why this political compromise cannot be accepted. That is exactly what those who made these demands were referring to. You make a request. The one you're talking to, take it. Then, when we should take a step forward, a request is made, and so those demands should not be applied to you. For the time being, all we have to do is find that after three years of these last intense negotiations - although efforts, as I said, have lasted for ten years and a great deal of work and expertise has been put in place - we have not been able to take a step towards the establishment of the provinces, even though our colleagues have already found, in the previous term, that without this decisive step, changes in the constitution, including the establishment of the landscapes, and in particular the transfer of functions will not be possible. In Slovenia, it appears, there is no majority belief as to whether to establish the provinces at all. Some have calculated that it is politically easier to control some clients, small municipalities and their mayors. Others, because they do not want to be the ruling coalition, the one that is responsible for the introduction of the provinces, so that it is probably constantly possible to see how this country is centralised and that the government does nothing. Why would the government propose amendments to the Constitution? Why would the government have a parallel bill on regionalisation? Why would I have a bill on the transfer of functions prepared if I didn't mean it? Why would she suggest asking the congregation? Why would you do that if you did not have a serious intention to do so? It would probably be unwise for the government asking questions to get negative opinions and then do it anyway, as it is [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I imagined, past the congregations, past people and so on. [[...]] But that doesn't work out. There is no need to find out who is the one who is the less for. They shall count the facts, shall count the votes. We counted on this subject several times, both in the Constitutional Commission and in the National Assembly. Our votes have always been on the side of such an arrangement that would allow the introduction of decentralisation, the law of the provinces, the transfer of functions, the provision of funding for joint regional programmes, the provision of financing for the performance of the tasks by the provinces on behalf of the country and so on. Now it's the hour of truth. We can only believe that there will be changes in the coming mandate and that the provinces will also have their own home. If he likes to refer and compare with Europe, he refers to Europe and compares it with it, then it will not be difficult in the next term to take a little look behind these plans of Slovenians and make these things happen. Unfortunately, we will be proposing a conclusion that the procedures are terminated. Most regrettably, however, we have fallen on the one basic programme that would be useful to all citizens and citizens in this Slovenia as a national assembly. Here also our 34 votes until they have lured one of our kind to another and even with such a large number of votes with constitutional changes, there is nothing they can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you, for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have always ensured that the municipalities must have or should remain one of the key elements in the formation of the provinces. This was not the case in the basic proposal by the government, since only the state should have a word. However, further work of the Constitutional Commission needs to be acknowledged, and there has been a very large movement. Finally, we were just before the consensus, which would also have been reached in the framework of the National Assembly. It is said that the so-called equal role of the municipalities and the state in establishing the provinces would be formed. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated that the role of municipalities is very important, that in Slovenia there is no tradition, no experience. Here we also referred to similar examples of the introduction of landscapes in other European or Eastern European countries, which, after years, have found or found that their system does not work. This way, according to the Slovenian People's Party, would be incorrect and would lead to the fact that the province would not serve its original functions of purpose, which would also set up the provinces. On this basis, the Slovenian People's Party's Group has been very actively involved in the search for possible solutions. We believe that we have put very much energy, effort, work and that this work and time have not been in vain. Maybe the time for the necessary consensus is not yet ripe. Nevertheless, we believe that it would be necessary to jump on the nose to this project without giving the biobes the necessary place to play the role, indemnity and premature, and that they could cause more problems in the functioning of the landscapes than a solution. In fact, the problem is that for the necessary decentralisation we could form forms of new centralisation. This time in a few more copies. Of course, this is a key issue that occurred during the whole process of developing an appropriate constitutional solution in the area of regionalisation. On the basis of the fact that no consensus has been reached in order to establish the provinces, a certain agreement of the municipalities has failed the whole project in this mandate. However, I am convinced that this work is a good basis for continuing work in the next mandate and for finding appropriate solutions. Of course, in the Group of Members, we believe that one of the key issues which, in addition to the two-thirds majority, is to resolve this issue with certain laws - one of the key issues of this country's formation of the second level of local self-government of the provinces, is also a general agreement on how to transfer functions from the country and to what extent to the provinces, what will be the reallocation of the financial cake from the country to the provincial level and what will be the human resources transfer. If this redeployment is not adequate, we believe that the country will face public financial problems and also the inefficient functioning of the provinces. It will therefore be necessary to reach this agreement, which will be one of the fundamental arrangements for the successful functioning of the landscapes in the future. Of course, we must also point out that this mandate of the National Assembly is probably marked by the fact that it has put an additional financial burden on the congregations and the government. This may also be one of the reasons why there was more pessimism in some of the parliamentary groups, when a second stage of local self-government was planned, is called regionalisation. This negative experience shows that it is necessary to have all these key solutions on the table before the establishment of regionalism in Slovenia. At the same time, allow me to touch on the solution in the proposed 121st article, which should also allow for the reform of the state administration, which according to an assessment by the Slovenian People's Party currently operates at local level successfully. Administrative units have been intercepted, so to speak. They mean the right service to citizens at a lower level by the state. Here we are faced with some other phenomena where the expositions of the Ministry are transformed into so-called offices, where the level of service is decreasing. That is why we have doubts about a thorough reform of the state administration at local level. We think this one works successfully. On the basis of all of this, we believe that there is in fact no other possibility at this time to adopt a proposal for a decision by the Constitutional Commission to close the procedure. However, we are convinced that the work done in the area of regionalism has not been in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have heard the position of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report of the Constitutional Commission and on the proposed decision. May I have Dr. Bernick's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u47	Dr. Bernick, I apologize. It seems that your Group of Members has only notified five minutes for discussion. Then if he stays in the end, we'll share the time again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u49	The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs for her discussion and I give her my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. With great ambitions, I have become a member of the Constitutional Commission, not only as a Member, but also as a lawyer, Korošica and not least with ambitions to set out the issues that the Government has proposed and enjoyed proposals of support, both in the professional public and they were known as a social problem to resolve. There's a lot of talk in the National Assembly about arrogance. My assessment of the three-year work in the Constitutional Commission is that such "political arrogance" as was heard there in the wake of constitutional changes, was not able to be detected in this National Assembly even at one point, even though it was attributed to us, many times unjustifiable. In my opinion, political arrogance is the most common expression in the adoption of constitutional changes. Political hygiene has been used so that political non-hygiene has not led us to consensus. I will say otherwise; due to political imperfection and ignorance of the social situation in our country. So many groundless reasons against it, so many mistrusts have been heard that people who do not deal professionally with these issues certainly cannot assert it. If I limit myself to the issue of change in the area of regional setting up of regions. All the arguments that have been made here today do not contain professional criticism. It's not just the expert, it's a trick and it's a lie. What is the power to say that they would take funds from the congregations and that they would be harmed by their development? That's not true! The explanation of the proposal for constitutional changes made it clear that the means to transfer tasks from the state level to a lower level will be the means to that intermediate level. The municipalities are having problems today. We are hurting them today because we expect them to use the original municipal funds for joint regional projects, the funds to solve municipal problems. This is what we expect of them today. That's what's going on, and we're really hurting them. From the bottom up. In the world, that's not how the landscapes were established anywhere. It's not possible to be in our country as well. It is only by law that it is possible to establish the provinces. The municipalities can never establish more than they do themselves. The respected Dr. Schmidtovnik explained this several times and was ridiculed, which was more than arrogant. For decades, this knowledge has been gained. Practices have been looked at in all countries. All those who know how to follow the opinions of the profession in their political decision-making, weigh them, we have been able to attach them to this. There's a lot of laws already in place, but why don't you get them to live? The Croat Region Act will never be able to experience the support of this National Assembly until the Constitution is amended until a system law on the provinces is passed. This has been articulated a number of times. Assembling congregations is important for improving the development of certain environments. The fact that we do not give them the tools by means of our political transfer and, finally, the taxpayer’s money is fraud and nothing else. What we've been doing for three years while we've been cooking, every housewife would simply mark it a complete disaster. Because if you cook for three years and you don't know how to feed a single child, it's actually extremely sad. I do not allow, when reading all materials, in the presence of all meetings of the Constitutional Commission, political arrogance to be attributed to government parties who have supported the changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the point of regionalisation. This kind of political arrogance is fully addressed to opposition parties, the Slovenian People's Party, Novo Slovenija and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, you know very little Slovenian social conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word will be given to Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you, for your word. I didn't mean to make any other calls because I already told you everything, but it really encouraged me to think about my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. I say that we have worked hard for the regionalism project and I do not underestimate this effort either. The key problem between the position and the opposition, or when the People's Party was still in the government, was: What role did we have in assigning to the municipalities in this process, or a minimum, or more important, or more equally? This is a key issue that is still open. That's the only question that's open. No other issue has been raised in the area of regionalism. I really do not understand why there was not enough wisdom to allow the congregations to give their consent. Because even today, it has also been said from your kind that the state will simply not hope to establish a province if it is opposed by the congregation. However, the latter proposal has been established in the sense that the two-thirds consent of the municipalities is that which is a condition for the establishment of landscapes in a specific area. I really do not know why we would flee from this power of the congregations, for only then will the congregations have this power, then not anymore. But if we want the landscape project to really accept that it will be vaccinated, if we say so, then this fundamental entity of the municipalities must be equally involved here in the establishment of the provinces. Opinion, is it just an opinion, do you know what it is? I think it's a little humiliating for the congregations to say, "Give them an opinion, and we'll do anything with it," even though we say in advance that we will take into account the decision of the congregations, but then let's write it down. That's the problem. I think that's the problem. Secondly, I do not know if anyone today claimed that the funds would be taken from the congregations. This has not been said in our parliamentary group. I have pointed out, however, that it is likely the weakness of this mandate that the government and most of the people in this national assembly have burdened the municipal budgets with the measures adopted and have not provided them with the means to do so. This is one of the concerns which could have been in this direction that there has been more scepticism in planning a regionalisation project than it could have been. In fact, if we today see how difficult it is for congregations to deal with the performance of their tasks and how many ongoing tasks they have, and how much space they have to take for investment, we can really hold onto our heads. This range has decreased significantly. Simply put, if this goes on in four years, the congregation will no longer have the resources. Most municipalities will no longer have funds to invest, only for the running of municipalities. That's what I think is scary. Then the solution is in the other direction. We will give the municipalities the opportunity to collect taxes from unpaved buildings and fill these revenues there. There can't be such a solution. I am convinced that citizens and citizens are already too burdened by the burdens and that if we want to develop faster, we need to reduce these burdens if we want to devote development resources on the other hand. Without new investments, there will be no development. It is therefore also necessary, as I said in the project of regionalism, to agree in terms of how the financial state cake will be redistributed to the province and to the municipality. The state will have to tighten up here and give up certain financial means. And so is the personnel. If they don't redistribute the personnel so we can just hire them extra, then we'll only have the costs and we'll have to pay for this machine. That's all the questions. And jurisdiction. These are all questions. But under our powers, we know that the ministries have been repeatedly recorded and asked what powers they would transfer to the provincial level. This is normal on the one hand, only someone has to cut. All ministries wanted to keep as many of their tasks as possible under their jurisdiction. Here it will also have to be specified and determined that political agreement, that this boundary will be truly optimal, that the province can indeed be effective. I believe that these are key issues that will need to be addressed in addition to these. I believe that, at this point, there is only an open question, which is a pity that has not resolved the question of the role of the municipalities in this process. Despite the fact that today it is likely that this is an urgent evil that the National Assembly will do for this mandate. I believe that what has been invested is a very large capital in the continuation of the talks on this solution in the next mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u53	With this, we have exhausted the list of reported and present debaters. The rest is available for a while. Does anyone else want to discuss this issue? Dr. Bernick and Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Anyone else? Here you go, five minutes first. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! On this issue of the regions, we are dealing with historical, political, financial and other elements that are difficult to coordinate. However, this is an extremely important topic. I think that it was too small for us to find today that we were not or that everything was prepared just there was no political consensus. I don't think that's true. I am looking at this issue in a way that the government requires a "carte blanche" from members of the National Assembly to give it a law that will establish the regions, but the content will be determined by the government. This would be said to be one kind of trick that the government would have used, whether it is aware of it or not, and I think it is certainly aware of that, in its own political or other direction. The cannon is unacceptable, and "clara pacta, boni amici". The cards should be put together once, not by one, then by the other. Personally, as in our client, I have been from the very beginning against the fact that the Constitution is substantially changing. This point should come on the agenda. Other than Europeans, let me add this, European articles are appropriate and others are not. The Constitution, however, is the main direction of the country. This does not just change, after perhaps the political or other inclinations of the government or the party and so on. I think that we have spent a lot of time on the Constitutional Commission, and perhaps this work that we have tried to do will be a good guide for the next term. One could conclude that the Constitution simply does not change. The second thing I would mention in this regard is an absolutely unacceptable approach for the government to hire an entire battalion of lawyers, or experts, whose words are supposed to be final, and in fact, the complications continue. Among other things, the government has used some of the experts that we then used. This is totally impossible for the same people to draw up a text that should then be viewed critically from the position of the Constitutional Commission. This is unacceptable, and I hope this never happens again. It seems midas - although it does not smell so - it is still quite close to political corruption. Even if it wasn't meant to be. I'm sorry we haven't made much progress here. But we have one more experience that these things need to be seen in depth and also pluralistic. If this does not happen, surely there will be no other assembly, a mandate more successful than we are. I wish it wasn't like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I would like to communicate only the position we had when adopting this regulation to the role of the municipalities in this system. Let me stress the role of the municipalities, even though they would accept this constitutional change, in the Slovenian legal order, they would remain as they now have. With 12% of the public-financial resources collected at national level, local communities have their own resources. If we look, we can give them all the credit. The municipalities do well, they do well, they do their jobs well. People have become very accustomed to this level of local self - government, the congregations in the form we have built. It is not intended, and even contrary to the European Charters, to intervene in any way in the congregations, to take over their powers if they can exercise them more rationally and in the interests of citizens as higher structures than the province or the state. Thus, speaking about the purpose of making a mistake in the congregation is a pure lie. That wasn't the point. The aim was to give more resources to manage the second level of local self-government, which would be called the province, the region and so on. Looking at European countries shows us that around 30% of public financial revenues are distributed at a lower level than the central level. We want to get close to that percentage. We want the country to have those tasks which it has learned that they can be more rationally and more familiar with the characteristics of a particular geographical area, and they themselves allocate these revenues for the most developmental purposes that will contribute to such an environment. Because the lower you decide, the more you know the problems, the more you make the right decision. The so-called principle of subsidiarity, and so on, is easily translated into a beautiful Slovenian language. We're lower, we're closer to the problem, we know it better, we're easier to eliminate it, we're easier to think about development. And that was ambition, by no means ambition, taking responsibility for local communities, for the congregations. It's never been, it's sneezing, I say, it's a lie. Because if you read the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it clearly stated that it is not intended to interfere with the original jurisdiction of the municipalities, but in the state jurisdiction which it wants to bring closer to the environment, where the province or region or as it were called the second stage of local self-government would be. The opinion, Mr Rokavec, you know exactly how we have adapted to you, and the opinion was that guard. The two-thirds majority of Members were the guardians, to the last we have adapted to you and tried to gain your confidence and your voices to support this constitutional change. You can't say we didn't listen to you. Why you can't bet on consent. Only for the reason presented to us by the professional public at first and, of course, we have also come to realize that this is the case. The consent of the municipalities means that, in the event of a disagreement between one, two or three, the project of establishing the provinces is completely dead. Only because we might want to reduce or diminish the impact of local communities on thinking, which is the whole that the province could function. So believe me, your allegations don't hold you back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Would you like a replica? Come on, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you. It is a serious correction of the statement, in this sense probably, see, colleague Krebs, in my opinion, I do not know whether you have listened to me poorly or not, I did not say anything about the role of the congregations, that the municipalities will, of course, be financially defiled in the design of the provinces. You have never heard this from my mouth because I know that the provinces need to be financed by the state level because the state will transfer the powers to the provincial level. However, the province will be directly involved in the lives of the congregations. Therefore, you have also argued that the law on coherent regional development should be withdrawn from the procedure because it is logical that the developmental component of the municipalities, which is increasingly broad, is much broader than the mere enclosing of the municipality, can then, of course, be substantially more efficient if the political framework is also established. This is perfectly normal, but the role of the congregations is understood by us in the formation of the provinces. This is the dilemma of consent or opinion. And I think we're arguing more about the hair in the egg here than whether it's possible to pull it out or not. I think it's more of a question that he'll probably mature sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. Decision on the proposal for a decision, in accordance with the meeting's timing, will be held today in the framework of the vote at 21.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 12.40, we'll move on to the 18th item of the agenda. Until then, 10 minutes' rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the general long-term development and equipping of the Slovenian military. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Dr Anton Grisold, for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Minister Grizold, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u61	Mr. Chairman, the House of Respect. You have before you a proposal for a new general long-term programme for the development of the Slovenian army by 2015, which concludes the multi-annual period of planned, comprehensive and comprehensive reforms in the defence system and especially in the transformation of the Slovenian army. The admission to full membership in NATO is a milestone where we need to fully assess the implementation of reforms so far, the state achieved and, of course, determine future developments. This, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2002 strategic review of the defence, 2003 with a development vision until 2015, has also been done and on this basis we have drawn up a programme that you are considering today. The first general long-term development and equipment programme was adopted by the Assembly on 29.2.2000, which was replaced by a new programme in November 2001. There were more reasons to mention just some. Above all, we have achieved greater coherence of the programme with the real and material and other options of the country, it has been new and it is a new force structure and so on. The current programme, as I said, stems from previous reforms and the basic starting points for the further development of the military, such as the comprehensive integration into the collective defence system, the adaptation of the army's tasks to changes in the security environment, the continuation of the introduction of the professional army, the further reduction of the military composition from, if I recall, 87 thousand, 45 thousand, 24 thousand, 18 thousand to 14 thousand and, of course, a number other. Well, if you'll excuse me. The key to the proposal for a new programme is as follows: I will try to point out at least six points in a synthetic manner. First time. Dissemination is the main tasks of the military within three sets: against the cessation of aggression, military contribution to international peace and third, support for protection, resolution and assistance to other state bodies. The national interests of the State and, of course, the tasks arising from our full membership in the European Union and NATO are the starting points for carrying out these military tasks. Another time. The development goals are precisely defined by 2015, focusing on the integration and structure of forces that we will contribute to the collective defence system. Third time. A strategy is set out to achieve key capacities and also the basics of the doctrine of the Slovenian army. Fourth time. More specifically, the structure of the military and the classification of forces according to the role in the fight for the future. Fifth. A system of military education and training, human resources and logistics is divided. In contrast to the programmes so far, the main equipment and priority systems are also identified. And six times, military infrastructure and some other tasks are also concrete. The proposal for a programme is based on the already adopted projection of defence expenditure. Unlike the programmes so far, the new programme also accurately sets out the dynamics of achieving key capacity after years. Based on the fact that the Slovenian army must maintain the national identity of the programme is the intended design of a special one, we call it a strategic reserve, about 20,000 members. This concept will now be worked out and in it we will try to preserve our military traditions. The implementation of the long-term programme will be ensured through a medium-term programme to be adopted by the Government for a period of six years and will be updated for two years, which is consistent with the defence planning methodology in NATO. Mr Vice-President, I propose that you support with the amendments the updated text of the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army, which, after all, confirms the decisive impact of the National Assembly on the planned development of the defence system in this mandate, as well as the strategic objectives of ensuring national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you, Minister, for further explanation, for the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Defence Committee as a working body by Rudolf Petan, Chairman of the Committee, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st meeting, the Defence Committee considered the proposal. Representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the Association of Slovenian Officers and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on that proposal, namely the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out in its opinion that the general long-term programme under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was not provided for as an act of the National Assembly and should therefore be adopted in the form permitted by the Rules of Procedure, such as a decree or a resolution. With regard to the content of the proposal under consideration, however, the legislative and legal service did not have any observations of a constitutional or legal systemic nature. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the political system of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission proposed the adoption of the amendment to Chapter 3.1, which is the purpose of the mission and the tasks of the Slovenian army. The proposal for a general long-term programme was presented at the outset by Minister Anton Grizold. More detailed solutions to individual chapters were also presented by Mr Miran Bogataj and Mr Uroš Krk. Ms Marija Ana Tisovic, member of the Defence Committee, tabled amendments to Chapters 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7 and 4.4, until the deadline for the submission of the amendments. At the proposal of the Commission on the Political System of the State Council, the Committee, as its own amendment to the chapter - a proposal for a general long-term programme of Slovenian military development equipment. At the vote, the amendment was not adopted by the Committee. On a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, the Committee has taken, as its own and adopted the amendments to the title and to subsection 3.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 to subsection 6.2 and the harmonisation amendment to Chapter 8 and then to the title and 6.7.7 additional amendments. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments proposals in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the chapters and on the title of the draft act and adopted the act in full. In the light of the amendments adopted in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the completed proposal for an act incorporating all the amendments adopted has been prepared. The amended proposal for an act is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman of the Board. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogomir Vnučec will be given the floor for the position of the Youth Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is possible to agree with the applicants, i.e. the Government, that the strategic security environment of the Republic of Slovenia is constantly changing due to the process of globalisation with the development of innovation society and other causes. The instability, threats and risks resulting from this pose a challenge to the security of the Republic of Slovenia, with classical military threats still present, but they cannot be completely excluded in the long term. That is why in our parliamentary group we are committed to a defence security policy that will take into account the essential elements of collective security and defence resulting from Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. At the same time, we support our own policy within the existing international security environment. Slovenia must also lead a peaceful policy and resolve conflicts in a peaceful way in the future. Our work in the wider international environment should be limited in particular to peacekeeping and humanitarian actions within the mandate of the United Nations or the Atlantic Alliance. We lead our policy into the example of non-violence and the peaceful resolution of possible conflicts, and therefore we are particularly committed to: First time. The promotion and operation of the Slovenian army within the European defence forces or to support the common European defence and security policy. Another time. The successful integration and operation of the whole country to the European Security Policy. Third time. Complete the formation of a professional Slovenian army and define its tasks. Fourth time. Reform of the Ministry of Defence towards greater efficiency and transparency of action. We also support the Ministry of Defence's efforts to complete the process of professionalising the Slovenian military through the development of the military's personnel system, including the system of personnel acquisition, their career path, the regulation of working, legal status and the maintenance and departure of military service. We also support the development of European security and defence policy and see the EU in the future as an active factor for security and stability both at home and in the world. We are also committed to a strategic partnership between the US and Russia, which puts solutions to problems within multilateral frameworks and underlines the importance of strengthening international rules and their institutions. We are therefore pleased to write in the resolution in the general programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army, where we can see that during the period of globalisation security threats have a more plastic and transnational character, which requires the country to have an integrated approach to ensuring national security. Therefore, in addition to the defence system for the management of modern threats, it is also important to have political, economic, social and, lastly, environmental factors where they must be interlinked in the national security system. So we're talking about some kind of sustainable defence development if we can pull a parallel here. Of course, planning for our defence must not be subject to the interests of the daily policy and personal interests of the leading politicians, as can be confirmed by the whole story of buying a military aircraft of the Falkon brand that would even drive wounded. That is why, of course, we want the policy here to be professionally transparent and long-term.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Marija Ana Tisovic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister, colleague, colleague. Position of the New Slovenia Group on the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian army. In our parliamentary group we generally agree with the assessment of the strategic environment and the impact on the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia with the purpose, mission and tasks of the Slovenian army, with the starting points for development and its equipment. With the development objectives of the strategy to achieve the key capacities of the Slovenian military, with the doctrine of action, structure and classification of forces, equipment and procurement programmes, including the advantages of items, infrastructure and so on. Despite all the concern about the full presentation of the development and equipment of the Slovenian army, we must not overlook some of the shortcomings we have seen in the analysis of the proposal for this document. In the document, we missed the position that the Slovenian Armed Forces will also rely on the domestic dedicated industry for equipment and will also direct it to prepare for weapons and equipment programmes and connect with foreign partners in equipping and arming our army. The development of the Slovenian Armed Forces should therefore include the domestic dedicated industry and research institutes, within the framework of the current possibilities and in cooperation with relevant partners from the countries of the allies and EU member states. In this regard, I must say that the Committee has adopted amendments that are mitigating this weakness. Worldwide, the military is also a promoter of scientific and technological research and technological progress. Defensive research and technological development also have a rapid return positive effect on the civilian part of the industry. And the results find quick use in the civilian field. Thus, defence-oriented research also has a purely economic impact. The impact on education on health, environment and so on. This area is not subject to an independent institution or institution which would finally coordinate cooperation with universities, institutes and industrial development institutes. This activity is not enough to take place within the Centre for Doctrine, Development and Education and Training, but should therefore be taken care of by a single institution and with specific funding. Also in agreement with economic operators. Given the risks and challenges of the modern era, we also need to focus on research for the needs of civil protection, the rescue service, firefighting and the like. As a member of the NATO and European Union, the Republic of Slovenia must give more emphasis to cooperation, both domestic science and the dedicated industry. And with foreign partners from industry, and research spheres. The flow of knowledge and personnel is essential here. This is also the purpose and purpose of bringing countries together in alliances and partnerships for peace. There's something else I'd like to point out. If we are going to keep something in the background, a certain strategic human resources reserve, about one percent of the population in the event of a major war threat that could be mobilised within six months, which is correct, we should also take care of minimum education and information for the taxpayers. And anticipate a plan to equip this reserve. Not only is it not enough to keep a record here, but it should deal with the organizational body and also get the minimum funds for it. The main task of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also to participate in international actions, reconciliation and crisis management of humanitarian actions, which are relatively far from home. The provision of personnel from the Slovenian Armed Forces will be increasingly current in this case. [[...]] The same in the case of major natural and other disasters. We propose that the religious and spiritual care of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces be devoted to certain care, in line with the development goals and the reconstruction of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you. The word gets from a colleague of Silva Crnugelj. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Grizold. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army, which puts the bridge and the final part of one period of reform efforts by the State and the Slovenian army until the integration into NATO and the European Union and the continuation and development of the vision of the Slovenian army by 2015. The Republic of Slovenia will also ensure its security in the future by playing an active role in international political and military integration, as well as by prudently paying for regional security initiatives, which we particularly welcome in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. This, of course, also represents the future development and development of a so-called rapid response national-security system that is able to adapt to changes in the strategic environment by promoting positive development, in particular areas of national security, reducing the potential for crises, which will be able to cope with negative developments. The resolution clearly defined the purpose, mission and tasks of the Slovenian army, which prevents any kind of aggression and responds adequately to aggression if it occurs. The military contributes to international peace, security and stability, supports the resolution and assistance protection system and provides security, prosperity and protection to other state authorities and public institutions in the worst circumstances. The starting points for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army are defined according to the size of the army, its planned key capabilities and the force to operate in international operations, so that the capabilities of a number of years are harmoniously planned. The Slovenian Armed Forces shall take into account the following scopes of action. Small volume with a unit of water size. Medium volume with unit-size company. Large volume with unit size of battalion level task force. It is also very large with all the forces that the Republic of Slovenia will have at its disposal within the framework of national defence. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the development objectives of the Slovenian Army in the period until 2015, as its original objective also highlights the integrated involvement and involvement of the Slovenian army as an integral part of the defence, economic, scientific and research, educational and general long-term development of the country, which will promote and contribute to faster, scientific and technological development and the introduction of new technologies, enhance the competitiveness of the domestic economy, its integration with the economies of the most developed countries, and not only in the field of the industry, but also in all other areas and activities. In the structure of the Slovenian army, forces are classified as the majority of the armies, namely fighting forces, military support forces, forces to ensure military action, support units, command, control with the basic logistics system. It seems important to us in the UK Group of Social Democrats that the main equipment includes a missile system, such as aircraft, artillery, vehicles, infantry, electronic and communication equipment. In particular, it seems important to us in the Group of Members that the resolution, as well as its founders, pay great attention to the research and development system. We believe that the priorities have been adopted following a thorough reflection and a type of coordination, as the development of the information communication system for the Slovenian military is crucial, as it provides the basis for all further work on the system's improvement. In this context, it is particularly important for us to establish the importance of the 2004/2010 research programme, the knowledge of peace, which brings about essential conceptual solutions, also in the light of sustainable development, and this is also one of the reasons why we will support the exploratory outcome as well as the fact that the resolutions land precisely certain dynamics over the years so that the monitoring and monitoring of implementation will be so much easier and more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you, too. Bogdan Barovich gets his word. Positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr President and Mr Minister. Colleagues and colleagues! We have taken a very big and bold step in Slovenia. This step is, according to our assessment, a transformation of compulsory military service into a professional army. And the second step, based on the decision of the Slovenians and Slovenians at the referendum, is to enter the common alliance, NATO. And, of course, by entering the European Union, we need to know that Slovenia also assumes the responsibility of the European Union's common defence policy. With this, Slovenia, in particular the Slovenian Army, has taken over not only its rights but a number of obligations and these steps have been taken very quickly. Therefore, the assessment that the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian military is still needed. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the proposal is acceptable in terms of speed and in the light of major substantive changes. However, we certainly hope that it will allow even later certain changes, because it is not easy to define the exact parameters or segments that the Slovenian military would need in three functions, three tasks, namely preventing aggression, contributing to peace at home and in Europe and the world. And above all what we experienced yesterday, which is of course very important and we appreciate this in the Slovenian National Party, as defined in the purposes and missions, support for the system of protection, rescue and assistance. This is a very important element, Mr Minister, and it is right that you have included it. Perhaps this content is slightly less visible from what is extensive and difficult to produce, of course, the program, but I am sure that it will continue to develop. We are also pleased that in the starting points for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army, national defence is mentioned in the first place and at the second place of cooperation in or with the joint forces of the Alliance in two areas, as I have already mentioned. Personally, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, in relations, good relations so far, with the Minister, I see three other advantages that may not be as visible at this time, or as a respected colleague has said before me, they are not obvious in the general long-term development programme itself. But I can tell you they're already in action. This means that the Slovenian military is concerned about the development of the domestic industry. As far as I know and as far as I have been able to work with the Minister and his services, they are very active in the employment of the domestic labour force, which can produce many things for the Slovenian army. And by doing so, the second advantage I assess is the possibility of employment. Not only in the industry that helps and cooperates with the military but also in the employment of many young people whose, whether it is the desire to be in the service, the active service of the Slovenian army, or those young people who have active service in the Slovenian army can also help them in their initial search for jobs. At the same time, I think that both Mr. Minister and his services, which I hope and believe also lead well, know that innovative activity in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, is also an opportunity for further development in the development of certain segments in the Slovenian military. And at the same time we will connect, I am confident of this, a chain, a chain of civil spheres, the privileges of Slovenians, the innovation of Slovenians, with the Slovenian army. This will not only be linked to some manufacturing process, but also to the relationship that is known from the past. But I say that everything in the past is not to be rejected. It means this relationship between civil society, between the military, friendship, association. These are also elements that are not literally written in sentences, but from the whole that we are connecting, we can conclude that this will also be a very important segment in the development of the Slovenian army. Certainly the Slovenian National Party and personally, Mr Minister, we do not envy you the difficult tasks you have. Given that we are patriots, that we love Slovenia and the Slovenian people, the Slovenian National Party will be everywhere where we assess that we can, and that we must also support the activities arising from the proposal of the general long-term development programme. So it's good that the proposal is made. We're sure it'll be supplemented. But let us hope and we want it to be, above all, that the objectives and purposes are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you, too. Rudolf Petan gets his word. He will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Due to major changes and changes in the political field, and also due to changes in the security environment, Slovenia must also adequately identify and adapt the development and structure of its armed forces. Changes are also needed because of our integration into the NATO system, which is a system of collective security. The fact that Slovenia has been a member of the European Union since 1 May, which is expected to assume greater responsibility in the future for ensuring security and peace, especially in the Balkans, and which is to agree and also have a common European defence and security policy, at least one minimum, would be the addition of NATO, which remains the pillar of European defence. By joining the Union, the security and defence of our country have become an integral part of European and international defence and security policy. At the same time, Slovenia has received and accepted new tasks and responsibilities in this area. Our mission here is two-way. When we received certain guarantees - I would mention only the case of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty - at the same time we committed ourselves to the performance of certain tasks and of course obligations. These tasks must be followed and pursued by our armed forces. This is especially true because of the concept of collective defence of the Alliance, which requires Slovenia, for the protection of its own country, the active operation of the Slovenian army also outside the national territory. Amendments are necessary as the role of classical military threats is decreasing and cannot be excluded. Throughout the period of general globalisation, security threats are increasingly of an international importance. All of this requires an integrated approach from countries. Non-military threats that do not know national borders and are mostly transnational are increasingly at the forefront. However, prevention and effective action in the event of such threats requires a specific approach, as well as a specific organisation and, in particular, knowledge, must not be neglected by cooperation with others. These objectives, those requirements and those tasks must also be followed by the Slovenian military if it is to be an effective and partner country. During this time, our specificity has led to the introduction of professionalisation and organizational changes. In the past year, the number of members decreased. This trend of reduction will continue, and when the compulsory service in the reserve will be abandoned, the scope and composition of the Slovenian army will be completed, followed by the numerical status of the members, which will follow the needs and, above all, the economic capabilities of our country. Professionalisation, however, requires the Slovenian army in particular a new regime, a new approach mainly in the area of human resources acquisition, which we have not known so far, because everything was resolved by a law that regulated the general service of military service and thus, of course, a set of personnel. In addition to staffing, the system will have to include their career path of regulating their working legal status and finally leaving the military service. The system will and should include the possibility of voluntary military training. It should be stressed that the burden of the new system will have to be on the staff, and everything else is a mandatory, necessary condition for the functioning of the system. The workforce, which so far has moved too much on personnel from the former country, will have to take a new path – equipment and equipment, which has been many times or, above all, in the role of daily policy, adapts to the conditions and requirements of the Alliance in relation to the objectives and tasks pursued by the Slovenian military. After this context, I would mention our commitment, our need and the need to ensure peace in the Balkans, this is our neighbourhood, and if anyone, then we must still be interested in maintaining peace in this region. So far, Slovenia has played its part very correctly in this area, and this has also made it possible to obtain certain equipment, and this is also the only right approach. I would point out that part of this document also considers the system of protection and rescue, which is necessary as an integral element of our society, as well as our tradition, and unfortunately for every time it shows that nature is obviously at this end, under the Alps, still very active and, as we say, the disaster never rests, so it is also right that we give this system the appropriate emphasis and appropriate importance at the same time, of course, that we also allocate the appropriate resources to it. The proposal before us, from the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army, should also be a document that follows our requirements, demands the present time and targets until 2015, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you. He will present the position of the LDS Club of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will present the position of the LDS Group of Members. At the end of my term of office, I can also look back in the area of defence. We have adopted a resolution of national security strategies, a law on defence, a law on military duty and other legislation in this area, ensured the adoption of the basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and have launched and implemented, to a large extent, a fundamental reform of our defence and security system. Slovenia's entry into NATO and the European Union, and consequently into their security and defence systems, as well as changes in the security environment and analysis of the forms of international threats, and thus our security, which reduces the possibility of direct military threat to Slovenia, increasingly interferes with the field of terrorism, international drug trafficking, organised crime, illegal migration and the need to provide forces for peacekeeping operations in other crisis areas, requires a new vision of the development of our armed forces. The tasks and mission of the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army remain the same. First, preventing aggression and responding effectively to it. Secondly, military contribution to international peace, security and stability. And third, last but not least, support for the rescue and assistance system. These objectives call for a professional, efficient and rationalised defence and military structure. In Slovenia, we have decided on a professional army, so in our parliamentary group we support the efforts, development objectives and orientations of this resolution, which will lead to the further completion of units and forces with professional staff, while at the same time reducing the number of members of the armed forces whose military composition is expected to number 14,000 by 2010. We also support the structural ratio of resources allocated to the Slovenian military in the context of defence expenditure, namely 50% for staff, 30% for operations and maintenance, and 20% for the acquisition of equipment, infrastructure needs, research and development. The resolution places great emphasis on equipping transfer forces to participate in collective defence and crisis response operations. This also requires adaptation of the internal organisation of forces. The fighting forces organised in the brigade structure and independent units of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be adapted in the collective defence system to the expected duration of this resolution by 2015. Allow me in this part to mention the following on behalf of the Group of Members. The new alliance means that within the framework of the Alliance we will also receive some forms of cooperation and, above all, the coverage of certain segments that we have had to do alone so far, and now we will be able to do so in the collective defence system. One of these, of course, is the protection of our air system. The other part, which I would like to mention in particular, is somehow within the maritime orientation of our country and also in the maritime part. So it's a possible purchase of ships and boats. This part of the resolution states that, in order to protect and protect the watershed with difficulty on accessible sea routes, we will obtain a second high-speed patrol ship and equipment with minimal direct protection of the aquarium for the port of Koper. I would point out that, in this national assembly, we have also talked a lot about the fact that the competent ministries, particularly the defence, internal and transport ministries, have agreed together to establish a coastal guard system. Unfortunately, we note that this segment is not covered in this resolution, which means that the National Assembly has not actually succeeded in this mandate in that basic sense with instructions given to the government and the ministries to reach a common agreement on the possible establishment of the Coast Guard, which on the other hand would also mean rationalisation in the field of our naval forces and fleets. Since Slovenia retains the specificity of voluntary military training, i.e. the creation of a strategic reserve of personnel, weapons and equipment of up to 20,000 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we have also proposed a decision by LDS members on the Defence Committee, which has been finally supported by this system and the concept of the so-called third round, which was presented today by the Minister in his presentation. In line with the organisation's adaptation, there are also appropriate orientations and priorities in the field of arms, equipment acquisition, the provision of the necessary infrastructure and, in particular, the provision of human resources resources and related defence expenditure, which are expected to reach 2% of gross social product by 2008 and will no longer change in the period until 2015. It is known that in our species we are very careful and critical to expenditure in the defence field and to increase funds for these purposes. At the same time, however, it is our view that investing in our own security is a long-term policy that is sooner or later paying off well. Especially if, in our security and defence policy, we support the policy of investing these funds in the domestic and dedicated industries and scientific research activities. Allow me to conclude by saying that we will support this resolution in the LDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate on the motion for a resolution of Members and Members. He wants the word Janko Weber? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Therefore, the Slovenian Army's equipment and development programme itself should certainly be based on the starting points, so that we already have certain facilities and spaces where it is possible to carry out all the procedures necessary to ensure that the reorganization of the Slovenian Armed Forces or the organisation in terms of professionalisation can be carried out in the most efficient way and that all the criteria known within the NATO system can also be met. We have also recently adopted a spatial strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, where we have also defined development guidelines and it is stated in this strategy that military activity will also be carried out outside major settlements, and in this resolution on the general long-term programme I find that there is a way of pointing towards this direction that in fact most of the key facilities are located at the highway cross or, of course, also in our largest cities. I believe that the possibility of carrying out these specific tasks, which are dictated by military training, is significantly smaller in cities than in areas that are not included in urban settlements. In addition, the appropriate dispersion of facilities throughout the territory also has a development element and we have already encountered a problem when there was a problem in the area of, say, some Slovenian Army programme, and this programme has, of course, changed overnight and left the area without any rehabilitation programmes, if I say so. For such rapid changes, of course, have great consequences for the environment where such a programme is being implemented. So I think that this resolution should also contain such solutions as to take into account, in the event of changes in the classification of forces, in the organisation of facilities and in the location of training centres, the known facts and problems that have arisen so far, either when they are placed in the premises of certain Slovenian military programmes or at a time when the military programme leaves an area. When we look at the section on military infrastructure, we are talking about taking into account the regional availability of a human resources base for the completion of the military when planning the spatial deployment of infrastructure, which I believe is appropriate and would respond to these concerns that I have cited. And, of course, the sale or replacement of unsuspecting military infrastructure will be carried out in accordance with military development plans. Here, of course, I would point out that objects in urban centres, the main city, either in Maribor or in Celje, have a significantly higher value than, say, on the periphery. And, of course, it would be necessary to take these facts into account if we are to have as much of the proceeds as possible. And in fact, to preserve that property that does not have any value, it has all the spatial and other details that can be implemented by the military. So this would also be a kind of more rational approach to the implementation of the Slovenian military programme in the coming years. And I hope that, of course, this programme will also try to follow, particularly the spatial strategy that we have adopted and is a binding document. This will also be taken into account in planning the construction and use of military infrastructure. Notwithstanding the fact that, explicitly and by indents, the prospective military barracks in this resolution are written in this resolution, which suggests that there is, in fact, very little likelihood of a derogation from it. However, I do not think that this chapter is most consistent with the spatial strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. Some are certainly bound either to aircraft bases or to the specific equipment required for specific programmes. And it's hard to re-establish them. Others, of course, are significantly easier to deploy across Slovenia. And in all this, of course, I would also have the question to what extent a very large area will actually be preserved which is intended to implement the programme of the Slovenian Army in the area of the Kočevska River in the Municipality of Kočevje. For this is certainly one of the areas which has built infrastructure. In my view, however, it is currently underutilised and some facilities, which are very suitable for implementing additional programmes, are now on their own. That is why I would also like to have an answer to the extent to which this area will be included in the Slovenian military development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Does Rudolf Petan want another word as an MP? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So I think this is a good time to point out something special. It's about protecting our airspace. I would like to say that the Slovenian government here has not fully played its role. I don't think it's the Ministry of Defence's fault, not the Foreign Ministry's fault, but I mean the general situation in Slovenia. What am I talking about? We know that Slovenia does not have sufficient resources to protect airspace. By joining NATO, we can, of course, count on the Alliance to carry out this task as an alliance. The simplest solution would be for this protection of our airspace to be carried out by aircraft from the Nato base in Avian, which is very close to us, so to speak. But we also know that the largest number of units in Avian is, or most of the units in the United States. I hope to say that because of our foolish, anti-American policy, we have closed the possibility of negotiating that this work be done by the Americans, from our nearest base. In doing so, it is most strange not to say absurdly, which is a funny fact that the solution that we have left behind is that the Italian Air Force aircraft from the base at Rimini are carrying out this task, which is, of course, significantly longer, that the biggest critics of this solution are those who are at the same time also the greatest anti-Americans and what prevails. Because it's American, it's the opposite. That's interesting. Even though it is necessary to say that I do not know why, such a solution must also be problematic. For no matter what happened in history between Slovenia and Italy, Italy is now a partner. We're in alliance. And now we certainly have different relationships, different relationships. And we certainly have to look at them differently. We're partners right now. And thank God that's true. But here I wanted to point out that sometimes you have to think about when you're knocking on doors, when you're closing doors, when you're hitting all the bridges, and when you're doing unnecessary things, but priori, you're doing well with someone else. I don't think there's a better case than this. And that every medal, perhaps even the current one, in the role of the current policy, when it is possible that we all spit on average, I think they spit on the United States, that it is modern, that it may even bring some election point, but it is certainly harmful for Slovenia in the long term. I'm sure it's harmful. And it would certainly be a better solution for Slovenia to do so from us closer to the base, from Avian. However, you also need to know that no one who is completely needlessly criticized needlessly drives a race against him, that he will then be so solid and will perform certain tasks for us, in this case protecting the airspace. So it is necessary to think about it in the future and to realize that each medal has two sides. And every knife has two edges. One is the one who cuts and the other is the one that's not dangerous. And in this case, surely, that other part of the medal would be very good and positive for us. And we have closed our doors as a negotiating option. We don't have much choice. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the airspace. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Aurelio Yuri gets his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Minister, I appreciate the rational approach to aviation development. I didn't trouble the Italian flights of our sky. I think that this solution has also been in the logic of rationality and, despite the fact that I do not like to see flying machines above our heads, I realize that it was better than a sovereign, independent approach to the development of some force that could control our sky and which would be significantly more expensive and that I have also disputed with those who opposed such a solution. But I'm sure this is where I attach my colleague Petan. I, too, would be among those who would be more troublesome if they came from the title of American aircraft, because I see the United States of America as a force that is now typically aggressive in one particular story, I think of Iraq. But despite this, it is right to help ourselves with these forms of cooperation and to continue to build rationally our defence capabilities. In spite of this programme itself, I cannot give my support, because it increases and predicts an increase in defence costs or defence expenditure by 2008 to 2%. You know, when we create budgets and adopt budgets, some of us just prepare amendments that give more money for education, for science, for social, for work, for natural disasters and, as a rule, we take amendments, at least I'm among those in defense. And this is likely to happen in advance, and it would be unconsistency and inadvertent to press the button today with a clear forecast that we will increase the defence spending dramatically over the next four years. I'm saying it's not necessary. There are members in the NATO Union who do not have that percentage and are others who have a significantly larger percentage. We're going on one average. The second reason why I do not want to support it was mentioned by my colleague Marsich, and this is one example after my irrational approach when we are talking about the development of maritime forces. He rightly found that we are working all the time to put the capabilities we have today in stock, to determine how many of these vessels are now capable of performing maritime tasks for the purposes of the Slovenian Army or the Slovenian Navy. I'm talking about the concept of the Coast Guard. There has been some agreement between the ministries, an expert group has made a task, is working on it, but there is no clear forecast ever, how and whether the current capacity of the police at sea, which is held by the defence at sea, is sufficient to ensure that we do not buy new voyages by defence. So these are briefly reasons why I will not give my support, but I will not object because I am aware that we have made some commitments. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Bogan Barovich? He doesn't want to. Dorian Marshich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I'll start where colleague Aurelio Yuri ends up. I must say that from the very beginning I have been determined that, of course, there will be the implementation of the Coast Guard projects in this mandate. Not because I didn't trust Minister Grisold here specifically, but I think Dr. Grisold was one of those who said he was ready to go into this project. Personally, I have had experience in one of the much smaller projects that I have tried to establish in the region, which was the Coastal Sea Protection Service, and I have already seen the problems that arise between individual services and individual ministries, which are often for professional reasons, and often for prestigious reasons, they simply could not agree and find a common denominator to allow this project to end. I personally felt that this was a shame, of course, because if we did not find a common language in the area of protection and rescue, then it was a bad thing. However, I cannot say, for this reason, if, in this mandate, the implementation of this Coast Guard project has not occurred that I could not find a reason why I would not support this resolution which is before us. I must say here that, as far as I have been monitoring the defence, security and development of these systems in the past, or at least since when Slovenia is independent, if I subtract that first initial period since 1991, when we created practically from nothing our armed forces and security system, I can say with certainty and good conscience that there was no more systematic work when there was a ministry of defence in the government and, of course, there were no consequences here in the National Assembly. I think that what I said earlier in the introduction on behalf of our parliamentary group is that we have accepted all the strategic documents in this area and have brought the matter into practice in this mandate to this end, that we have also fundamentally implemented the reform of our coastal and security system and thus the Slovenian military. Here it goes to the Minister, of course, his team, who I think has done a good job, a hard job, so good that he found a common language here in our National Assembly, both within the framework of the work of the Defence Committee and here on the plenary, where you can see for yourself that there were no big comments or reasons to oppose proposals that came from the government. So, I thank you for the last time, given that we are before the end of this mandate and will no longer meet in this area, the Minister and, of course, his associates for a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I will now give the floor to the Minister if he wishes to answer any questions and opinions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much to all those who have expressed the views of your members. I see that you have read the programme of the general long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian army very well by 2015, if you have not already studied. I'm sorry, but I'd like to refer to some of your findings and starting points. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that very seriously, we have not only put into the programme of this general long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian army, but also in defence policy over the last four years we have been very serious about involving the Slovenian economy in projects, not only the Slovenian military, but also the entire defence system. Let me tell you here that over the last few years we have directed over 100 billion Slovenian tolars directly into the Slovenian economy, and this means what you sometimes like to see added value, i.e. to promote further development. Slovenia is a member of the future European Union Agency for Equipment and Development or whatever it is to be named, we are very active in the establishment of this agency, we are members, and we have also acquired, in this period, not only appropriate references, but suitable places where our representatives will be able to represent the direct national interests not only of the Slovenian economy, but of the entire area of science and technology in the future. And of course, the red thread is also in this programme, in our view, very explicitly written and indicated that we will continue to do so in the future. Mr Weber spoke about the coherence of this programme with the spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that we are also in the space strategy, which has been actively co-operated, so most things are probably harmonised. However, as regards certain military infrastructure facilities in general, the matter is within the competence of each six-year period. As I said earlier, this general long-term implementation programme will be implemented through a six-year programme that the government will put into the National Assembly and will be renewed every two years. And I am confident that we will be in these operational programmes to find the points of reference with local communities. You know that one of my starting points and fundamental principles was to establish excellent relations with all local communities in Slovenia and we tried to put this regional approach into practice. I can list a number of projects that run from Maribor, New Town, even Kočev, if you want, but let's say that Kočevje will be in line in a little while, Kranj and some other Slovenian centres, not just the center, but also the local communities. With regard to the protection of airspace, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to stress that the existing solution is temporary and I have made a personal commitment to it, which is, of course, within my competence, when negotiating with the Allied Forces and General Johnson, who was also visiting us. So it's a joint solution to the NATO relationship, which is the most rational and currently optimal. It is not true that, as some have simplified, I apologize that Italian aircraft protect the airspace of the Republic of Slovenia. That's not true! And I'd like you to call this place a bean bean for once. The Slovenian Army, with all its infrastructure, i.e. the radar system, with civil and military airspace control work, provides airspace, of course, within the framework of the integrated military structure dedicated to NATO. And there were no flights, so you couldn't see any of those planes in a quiet time. The matter is also on the side of a former foreign minister who can say what he has done in his field. I wouldn't criticize the government long and hard, but I'm saying that in my field I did what I think was optimal at the moment. A colleague, a former foreign minister, may he speak his mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much. If no one objected, the debate would be closed. Does anyone else want the time we have at our disposal? Because no, I am concluding the debate on the motion for a resolution. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the vote on the resolution will take place today in the framework of the vote at 21.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 2:15 p.m., we'll move on to the 19th item of the agenda. Until then, a short break. Thank you for your cooperation, especially to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u87	Dear Members, honourable Members! We continue to work, moving on to treatment 19. Agenda items - To defend the Commission's proposal for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The draft Rules of Procedure were tabled by a group of Members, with the first signed by Rudolf Mohet. I give the text to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the draft act. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The content of the security intelligence services is essential to our national security. However, the security intelligence services and their monitoring commission are either strengthening or weakening national security by their work. Due to the use of specific operating methods and means in this work, only these services are prejudiced to human rights and freedoms and control is therefore dependent on the agreed rules of this control. I do not think it is appropriate to say that, even when we have considered the law on the supervision of security intelligence services, we have also, in our 9th Article, laid down that it is precisely because of the specific nature of the work of this Commission, that the Commission should regulate its work with the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly six months after the adoption of the law. We needed a little more time because of some circumstances, but today this rule of procedure is before the National Assembly and since no amendments have been tabled, I also hope that we will accept it. The Rules of Procedure set out in more detail the mode of work, the reference to meetings and the decision-making process, and it defines in detail the conduct of the Commission, including the decision-making process, the declaration to the public, which is something special, in view of the work of other committees. This commission also has something that other commissions do not have. This is said to be the record, the invitations are specified, the authorised groups in the premises, the supervised services, the performance of the inspection, the deadlines for the submission of reports and work programmes by the services, the delayed exercise of control, the acquisition of documentation relating to supervision, oral reporting and the interview before the Commission and, of course, the technical conditions for the functioning of the Commission. We kind of got used to it in the National Assembly that this committee has a special room. I don't think it's long before the documents received by the members of this committee and also by our own IDs will give us a specially equipped safe, where we can make the material secret or top secret. I would also like to point out that it is possible to adopt a law on the supervision of the work of the Security Intelligence Service, for the first time in this mandate, to record that we are no longer dealing with affairs in the security intelligence services, which have been the regular escort of each election campaign. Moreover, our Commission members invite external institutions, either from Switzerland or elsewhere, to help developing countries, where they do not have regulated legislation to this extent, to use us as instructors in interpreting the work of security intelligence services, which is, of course, one plus for our democracy. With today's adoption of the Rules of Procedure, we will conclude a series of legislation regulating the supervision of security intelligence services, and I believe that the first of the countries in transition to have this matter regulated, thanks in particular to the professional services available to us, a group of experts and excellent cooperation in the legislation with the Owo, the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Crime Service of the Ministry of the Interior. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On our committee, we just set ourselves up with a thought that speaks of mistrust as a mother of security. And in this lack of confidence in the information we receive from one side and with quality work on the committee, it seems to me that the purpose for which the Commission was set up has been achieved. I would like to ask you, because there has been no further addition to the complementary proposal for this Rules of Procedure, with all due respect, to accept and assure colleagues who will come to the next term of office that is inappropriately easier to do than we have done. I sincerely thank all those who have participated in the Rules of Procedure, especially the members of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure was addressed by the Supervisory Board of Security and Intelligence Services as the parent labour force. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Jožef Jerovska, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u90	Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Good-bye! At its 32nd meeting, on 24.6. the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services considered the draft Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence services submitted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of 9 Members, members of the Commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services with the assistance of legal experts. Meetings of the Commission were attended by representatives of the Government from two government intelligence services and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service were also present. The Commission was informed on 15.6. of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and also adopted written comments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission held a debate on the articles to which amendments were tabled and on the amendment proposal. There was no need for a decisive debate on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure since the proposal for a Rules of Procedure was made by the Commission and the members were its authors. Prior to the submission of the proposal, several working discussions and coordination on the content of the proposal were held within the Commission. And before that, with regard to the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of the Intelligence Security Services, which was also prepared and submitted by the Commission and adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 26.2.2003. The proposed proposal was accompanied by amendments by SDS members and three ruling coalition groups of joint proposals. On the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission held a debate and a vote on the articles and amendments tabled to the individual Article of the proposed Rules of Procedure. The Commission has adopted amendments from the SDS Group and the three LDS Group Members, the Joint List Group and the DeSUS Group of Members to some of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission also summarised the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the Club of the three LDS groups of Members, the Consolidated List and DeSUS to certain articles. As its article, however, the Commission drafted the contents of the amendment to Article 13. In part, the Commission also summarised the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Article 15 and to Article 38 and included them as an amendment to Article 38. After the final discussion and the vote on the amendments in accordance with the third indent of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted on and adopted all the articles. I propose that the assembly adopt the proposed rules of procedure of the Monitoring Commission as prepared in the amended proposal for a Rules of Procedure. As one of the candidates, I should say that, as has already been mentioned, the drafters of the Rules of Procedure are members of the Intelligence Security Services Commission by adopting this Rules of Procedure, and have achieved one of the objectives set and recorded in the work programme of the Supervisory Commission for a four-year term. With the preparation and adoption of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission is today concluding its successful work during this mandate period. We have achieved the objective set by us in the Commission at the beginning of this mandate to establish uniform and effective parliamentary supervision, intelligence and security services. Members of the Commission expect parliamentary oversight now that it has finally contributed to improving the effectiveness of our intelligence and security services for its functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr. Franc Lenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, colleague and fellow Members. Intelligence and security activities have always plagued people’s spirits, and it is clear that the country must have effective security services. It is also true, on the other hand, that effective supervision of the exercise of the powers conferred on such services should be ensured in order to avoid abuse. There is always a question of where and how deeply an individual is affected by the methods and means that affect his personality. One way of monitoring is parliamentary supervision, which is also used by other European countries. Today we are not discussing whether intelligence and security services are working well or not and how effective their work is to be monitored. Although this question is relevant. Today we are talking about the course and the way the Commission works. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is a good basis for the functioning of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, but we need more detailed business regulations. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure is a reflection of the past work. It contains proposals that have proven to be operationally successful over time. After events in the near past, the pursuit of different types of data has deepened or expanded. Not only in Slovenia, but also throughout Europe and the world, the powers of the intelligence and security authorities are expanding and the scope of the tasks of the European Union has increased with the entry into the European Union and the database of our intelligence security services has increased. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we believe that we must not lose sight of a person who is potentially affected by interference with his integrity. On the other hand, it is a matter of national security and it is necessary to carefully consider each decision and, for parliamentary supervision of work, there is certainly a welcome one statute that will work better with the rules. However, it is essential to respect the principle of proportionality and the legality of interference in the secret collection of data. The Commission must have the power to draw attention to disproportionateity, but it is certainly necessary to ask what to do with the data obtained in an illegal manner. The subject may go beyond the area covered by the Commission's Rules of Procedure, but according to the DeSUS Group, it is necessary to think in advance. We believe that the Commission, such as the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, is undoubtedly in need of rules of procedure, so with special status, due to the nature of the work. In addition, the supervisory function adopted by the Rules of Procedure will undoubtedly be more exact, more exact, leading to greater effectiveness of control of itself and the very questionable will also make human rights more secure. For these reasons, we will support the proposal of the Rules of Procedure in our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented to us by Master Marko Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In this mandate, the work of the Commission of the National Assembly to oversee the work of the Intelligence Security Services has been good and, in our opinion, is also correct. Notwithstanding the Commission's political diversity, it alone carried out its work in accordance with the legal powers that were, in a loving manner, very incomprehensible before the implementation of the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services and which allowed for broad interpretation and appropriate complications. This inadequacy and the possibility of a broad interpretation have been reduced to a minimum by the Commission with a proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, which was introduced into the legislative procedure on 11 July 2002 and adopted on 26 February. In accordance with Article 37 of the Act, there is still a need to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of the National Intelligence and Security Services, which is ahead of us today and represents a point on i, works by this Commission on a temporary basis. The Commission's Rules of Procedure, in our view, regulates the way the Commission works and thus prevents different interpretations of individual provisions. We believe that this is important and good because it will enable quality control of the work and legality of the work of the intelligence and security services, which is good for both these services and for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not least in terms of the cooperation of these services with similar services in the wider European area. Let me stress the following. In the next term, it will also be necessary to emphasise the education of the members of this Commission, as it will only be able to carry out its mission in a qualitative and professional manner, as well as to ensure adequate material and technical conditions. This also applies to security intelligence services, which are an important factor in national security. It is particularly necessary to mention the procedure for the enforcement of controls, which is detailed in this Rules of Procedure and thus prevents situations which we have witnessed in the past when on the Commission, due to the lack of clarity and uncertainty of control. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will support the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the Control of Information and Security Services, and we want a lot of successful and non-conflict work for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Also welcomed are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Intelligence Supervisory Commission has carried out important work during this mandate period. It has, of course, monitored the procedures and actions of the intelligence security services, which are an important element and a factor in ensuring the security of citizens and the state, and, on the other hand, has also exercised control that these services do not move beyond the limits which constitute the abuse of power over citizens, in short, the search for the necessary borders between security, security and, on the other hand, while respecting rights. This has been successful during this mandate period, and the Commission, under the leadership of President Jerovska, has also drawn up a law on the supervision of intelligence and security services and thus the rules of procedure that we are considering today. This Rules of Procedure resolve the dilemmas we have encountered in practice, how to organise controls, how to collect materials, process them, store them, issue powers, identify them and, of course, carry out controls. In some situations, due to a lack of regulatory basis, some difficulties have been encountered by understanding how to send a commission, when, how to be composed, when to do the work, how to do the report. In short, some of the problems that are, of course, necessary to solve them in a normative way. However, this activity is very responsible and procedures need to be precisely defined. To this end, this Rules of Procedure, which we welcome in the New Slovenia Group of Members, are being prepared. We think it is good, but it is likely that the further practice of upgrading this area of surveillance of security and intelligence services will show what should possibly be added and improved in order to achieve and achieve those objectives and the mission that the National Assembly must carry out with its committee. This is his constitutional obligation. So, as has already been said, the proposal for a Rules of Procedure, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, will be supported by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u98	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have already stated in the reasons for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure that the position of the Commission itself is very specific and its work area is more difficult than other working bodies of the National Assembly, which means that it is necessary to define how it works in the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, which will include precise provisions for the way it works, as required by the legal provision already mentioned. We have adopted a law on parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services and amended the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and both acts are the basis for the proper functioning of the Commission and, indirectly, of the National Assembly in the area of the control of intelligence and security services. It is good that, just before the completion of our mandate, we will also adopt the rules of procedure of the Commission for the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services. It is important that the way in which the Commission works is precisely defined and, above all, the procedure for the enforcement of supervision. It is important to point out in this respect the articles relating to the authorised group. I would like to point out the third paragraph of Article 34, which sets out what the decision on the appointment of an authorised group should include. In addition to the name and surname of the members of the authorised group, the subject of control and the place or location of control. This will remove the risk of confusion in determining controls that could lead to a different understanding of the control decision. Article 16 of this Rules of Procedure provides for a way of informing the public. Above all, it is imperative that we prevent any solo action by the President, regardless of the political options it comes from. In the case of matters and matters which are essential for national security or for the operation of supervised services, the Rules of Procedure provide for a written notification to the public, adopted by a majority of the members present. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. This will also, as has already been said today, make it possible for the entire body to be rounded up and for the quality and expertise of the future commission to be carried out in the future composition of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! A thin line is a line that you cross and with it you can hurt a man and a man's dignity. Much has been said of my predecessors. Security and intelligence services in this country are needed, they have to do their job, and we can't sometimes blame this thin line that can't be crossed. But they interfere with this in chapter II. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore it is good, even excellent, that there is a commission to oversee the work of security and intelligence services. This preserves order, constitutionality and rights for citizens and citizens. It is excellent that a rules of procedure are drawn up that specify the rules of the game. It is excellent to determine the possibility of making a statement to the members of this committee. It is excellent to provide the necessary logistical support, safe spaces and, above all, in the Slovenian National Party, we find it very important to Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure, which also discusses that the Commission regularly, once a year, informs the National Assembly of its work. According to the Slovenian National Party, the Rules of Procedure are good and we will absolutely support it. However, we thank the Commission for the supervision of the security and intelligence services for the work they have done and for the desire to do useful work in advance, in particular in order to protect the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much again. In the SDS Group of Members, we are pleased that the Commission, which we chaired in this mandate, has prepared all the legal and business bases for effective control in the future. In the SDS Group, we are aware of the importance of effective control over the work of security intelligence services, especially since in the past these services have been politicised and often abused to violate human rights and fundamental freedoms. The SDS is based on the right to have systematic doubts about the work of the intelligence security services, the working method of this commission. In particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are interested in the fact that the supervisory commission has an effective control over the regulated legal and business conditions of operation, because we are the only party to have consciously discredited by the ruling policy and security services during the new country's time when we were spreading the news that the SDS was hours of Kosovo separatists during the Kosovo crisis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fear that there may have been politicisation of activities related to the activity of intelligence services this year. Indeed, with great surprise we have accepted the news that the government has replaced the director of the archives of Slovenia, which keeps archives of security services from the past period. We are particularly surprised that the former Director has been very professional in leading this body and has also pointed out some errors in the management of archival material within the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u103	Mr Jerovšek, your colleagues are upset [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u104	In the SDS Group, we believe that clear legal powers and transparent business solutions are the right basis for the work of the Supervisory Commission. Since it is a so-called minority commission led by the largest opposition party representative as a rule, this commission was led by an SDS Member in this mandate. We see the proposed Rules of Procedure in the SDS as the conclusion of a successful part of the Commission. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we wanted even shorter and less standardised rules of procedure. However, we have also listened to the arguments of legal experts who participated in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure, and we have also taken some opinions from the legal and legislative services in the amendments tabled. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are particularly interested that the Commission also communicates appropriately with the public. Despite the fact that the meetings of the Commission are closed to the public and the materials are, for the most part, equipped with a code of confidentiality. That is why, at the SDS, we opposed solutions that would make it too difficult for the public to be informed. We were also guided by the experience of similar commissions in other countries. We have considered particularly important and with particular attention the articles setting out the powers of the authorised group and the powers of the authorised group and the articles clarifying the retention of the control of the Commission by the government. If we wrote our own rules of procedure, we would limit the possibility of retaining control by means of business solutions, and we would certainly lay down even broader powers of the authorised group. However, we have been constructively involved in the preparation of this Rules of Procedure, and we believe that we have reached some current optimism that the solutions written are such as in this amended proposal. We also believe that the important solution to Article 42, which requires the regular notification of the National Assembly, is to conclude that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware that the most effective control and minimization of the possibility of misuse of intelligence services is to ensure and represent a regular change of power. This is a fundamental principle of democracy that brings many things in itself. Therefore, in the SDS, we believe that the supervisors and the management of the commission will regularly change in the future, that Slovenia will comply with these criteria of democratic power, and that, even if anyone thought that any solution in this procedure would take more rights to the current chairmen of this committee, we hope that such inappropriate solutions, if installed, will strike after the change of power of the other party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u105	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented by Mr Dorijan Marsič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues! In the end-of-term mandate, we have also fulfilled, among other things, the commitment to provide for the system-wide parliamentary oversight of intelligence security services. Thus, at the meeting of the National Assembly, on 26.2.2003 we adopted a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, which provides in its 37th Article that the National Assembly shall adopt the rules of procedure of the Commission for the supervision of the work of the security and intelligence services no later than six months after the law is in force. The proposal for a Commission's Rules of Procedure for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which is before us today, means, in addition to the legislative provision cited above, the implementation of Article 9 of the Act, which provides that the Commission shall have its way of working with the Rules of Procedure adopted by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Commission. The draft Rules of Procedure shall be an act which shall, in addition to the provisions cited above, give more detailed effect to the whole law. The way in which the Commission worked had to be defined precisely and responsibly. The role of the Commission is extremely important in the national security system. The exercise of control over the work of the intelligence and security services and the assessment of whether the activity of the supervised intelligence and security services is within the framework of the Constitution and the law is a responsibility. On the one hand, the security of the State, which is also intended to be ensured by intelligence and security services through its activities and measures, is also by interference with human rights and freedoms, and on the other hand it is an extremely difficult assessment of when the activities and actions of intelligence services are excessive and beyond the principle of constitutionality and legality. By adopting the draft Rules of Procedure today, we will therefore ensure the protection of parliamentary democracy and also the protection of human rights. The draft Rules of Procedure set out in more detail the subject-matter and scope of parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, the composition, tasks and working methods of the Commission and its relations with the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and ministries, other State authorities of the security and security services, organisations and individuals. In the LDS Group, we assess the draft Rules of Procedure for a well-prepared act which, in accordance with democratic principles, will definitively regulate the role of the legislative body in the control of intelligence and security services, and we will be pleased to support it. In doing so, we would like to thank all the members of the Commission for their special role in the drafting of the legislation and the rules of procedure, regardless of the political colour involved in the preparation of such important acts, which will also enable the control of this important issue in the next term, regardless of who will be in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, presented by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Maybe they'll settle in the hallway. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We will also support the proposed rules of procedure of the Monitoring Group in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. It is with great satisfaction that, at the end of the term of office, the Group of Members has prepared a thorough, good rules of procedure, which are primarily governed by the work of the President, the role of the President and are the tasks of the President. It arranges that meetings of such important committees as the Intelligence Supervisory Commission shall be closed to the public and in some cases open to the public. It is also important how the President reports from the meeting of the Commission and from certain events that have taken place in relation to the Commission and the meeting to all the media. This Rules of Procedure regulates this issue in a thorough and effective manner. As far as the retention of control is concerned, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that when it comes to specific elements where the interests of the State are concerned, the government has some activities relating to the national security of the State, that the government has the opportunity, as well as the service, to hold back the supervision of this Commission, and it is in a way regulated that the Commission receives a thorough report or review of the documentation after a reservation to the exercise of control. The Rules of Procedure also govern who and how the documents are obtained, how the authorised group, which has an important role to play in monitoring, is chosen. You yourself may have understood that an authorised group must be appointed for each supervision. The news in the parliamentary supervision of these services, which the Commission oversees, is also that individual members carry official cards, which means that, in accordance with the bill of lading and the rules of procedure, individual members of the Commission, who must also be elected by most Members to this committee, do not have alternate Members, which means that it is guaranteed and more likely that the data transmitted to the Commission will remain confidential [[?]] secret and less likely to leave this commission. As far as reporting to that Commission is concerned, this rules of procedure have also been well regulated. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Commission's reporting to the National Assembly by 30 April is a relative date and an appropriate date, since the Commission's report for the previous year and by 30 April the Commission can prepare a report. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I would also like to thank all the members of the Commission, all those who have co-formed in any way under the umbrella law which Parliament has received for the supervision of intelligence services, as in the work and drafting of this Rules of Procedure. Indeed, even in the Slovenian People's Party and the Group of Members, we are aware that in the past and from experience and also some indications show that many times Slovenian intelligence services were either involved by individuals or individual organisations in political conflicts and affairs that accompanied the work of both the Government and the National Assembly and other branches of government. It is important that the Commission effectively exercises its control and legally and swiftly. Only by this means and by means of a legal basis can we ensure that those services empowered to encroach on human rights under the law are thoroughly and effectively monitored. And that those powers and views of those services that have the right to encroach on human rights are exaggerated by this commission, regardless of who will be president and which members will be elected to this commission. The Rules of Procedure have a good basis, a good legal basis, for the Commission to be able to closely supervise all services operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. We are pleased, however, that the Commission has adopted all the amendments unanimously and has taken into account the comments made by the Legal Affairs Secretariat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Followed by a general debate on the proposal for an act. Mr. Jerovšek, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u110	Actually, I won't discuss it. I think I have previously forgotten, due to the interlocutors from the Chamber, that our Group of Members will support the proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Knagler, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members! I'd like to say a few words. In view of the fact that I was a member of the Commission which supervised the security intelligence services operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from 1996 to 2000, and also in this mandate, the Slovenian Security Intelligence Service is called. My assessment is, as some predecessors have previously found, that services in the previous mandate have been misused many times in political conflicts and political affairs. In both the previous mandate and this mandate, the Commission has identified some things. It has also identified some things and some future conflicts that could be caused by individual members of the service have also been prevented. Obstacles in this way, because silence also binds me, and since the meeting is public, it is difficult to speak of self-reliance. I would like to point out that from the moment the Commission organised a slightly different work in this mandate in the National Assembly, I am thinking mainly of the quiet room and of some other phenomena that occurred in the previous mandate, I can say with full responsibility that, therefore, in this mandate, these services have not been used in such and other accounts. This is also the result of the good work of our commission and the good work of overseeing this commission. That is why we wanted members of the oversight commission to receive a roof law that gave us a legal basis for oversight as soon as possible. I would like to point out that this rules of procedure, which we are likely to adopt today, will be a major step forward in the work of the Commission itself. Only in order to ensure that this Rules of Procedure, including the law, are all those matters on which they had individual services, service leaders, governments and even parliaments having their time of reflection. Many times we have had a problem with the organisation itself and with the secretary-general in the provision of professional assistance to this committee. I would not like to stress the content, but according to other laws, secret information laws, the SOI law, the law on police, the law on the supervision of intelligence security services. All these laws and probably other regulations, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, give this committee the authority, the legal basis for us to be able to supervise, monitor, monitor, monitor, and monitor, any direct activity which interferes with human rights. We as members of the Commission have not only supervised the intelligence and security services, but we have also helped them many times. But we have also helped them in this way that we have tried to appeal both to the government and to this assembly to change certain acts that would give both the police and the intelligence security services some more powers, and that is what I think and I am sure of. Although I would like to point out that it has been a long time since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and that all those who in any way yearn for power in such a way as to take control of these services should be aware of the need to behave in democracy in a Western manner, that these services serve the State, the Government, and that these services must take care of national security. Whether the left hand or the right hand is in power. And it is unacceptable for an individual or a group who has been employed in these services to abuse in any way the information obtained for the work of this service. In the previous term, we have witnessed such events, and I must admit, above all, that we have not been satisfied with the previous Director of the Soviet Union, who did not have a proper relationship with our Commission. Even with the rules of procedure that we are adopting today, I am confident that this relationship, both between the government and some services, will be significantly improved, although today I must thank the two directors of the intelligence services, both the Ministry of Defence and the Soviet Union and the Ministry of the Interior, for their genuine cooperation and for seeking compromise between the request of the individual members of this Commission on the one hand and the heads of the intelligence services on the other. I would like the Commission to carry out controls effectively, legally and swiftly within the next term and to make available to the Commission all the information that has often not been available to our Commission for such or other reasons. I am sure that neither the President nor the individual members of the Commission have had any interest in finding a conflict. Many times, in this mandate, a political conflict could arise between the Commission and individual members or chairpersons, if I may so express myself, of the intelligence security services. Through the media or something else, through the National Assembly, we could launch a political or other race against these services. However, we have not done so, despite the fact that we have consisted of express parliamentary parties, from the opposition and the coalition, because we are all well aware that a young country such as the Slovenian State, which has become a member of the European Union, which is also a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, is in urgent need of these services, which we are looking at in any way, including part of all these alliances and this system. Therefore, these services must be apolitical and I would like them to carry out their work professionally and legally and to serve the Slovenian people and the national Slovenian interest or interests. I'd end it with that. Once again, allow me to thank all my fellow Members for their participation in this committee, which we have participated in this mandate. However, I wish the future Commission much success and as fruitful cooperation as possible with the Slovenian security and intelligence services.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Marshich want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We conclude one cycle of important work. I think we can really be proud in the National Assembly that we've carried him out to the end. However I also met abroad with this issue when I was walking around and as a member of the parliamentary group, i.e. the parliamentary delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we also talked a lot about how the security of the intelligence service and the armed forces is being monitored. The so-called democratic control of these forces. I have come to the realization that no country, a democratic state in the world, that would not constantly face it, has continuously been in trouble in this area and has been constantly dealing with it. And there is no state and there is no parliament that will always be satisfied with what it faces, with the information it receives, etc. It's practically a cycle that I don't think will ever have that satisfying circle. It's some kind of dog-and-cat hunt, by saying the following. It is always necessary to have in front of us that we must have security and intelligence services, that there must be control and that this control must also be regulated. So it's surveillance. At the same time, however, we must have our own control over how and what we control. It's mostly about that. We have spoken this many times and spoken very intensely when we adopted the law that it was also necessary to maintain the integrity of the service under our supervision. In particular, to avoid any political manipulation on the one hand, on the other hand, to accidentally cause the vulnerability of our security intelligence services, i.e. surveillance of other, perhaps external, third, even outside our country. I think we've somehow achieved this in our National Assembly. We, who are ordinary members and members of this Parliament, who are not faced with direct work and constant work on the commission itself, may not even know all things. However, as far as I understand, even through the reports we have dealt with in the past, there has been, I will say, some trust between the supervisory services and between the parliament on the other hand. The final result is the law. The final result is this rule governing our work and our relationship between us overseers and supervisory services. The fact that the work has been done well also suggests to me that because I have had the opportunity to present several times to parliamentarians on the subject of democratic control over the armed forces, on the security system, I have also presented, of course, within what I am aware of, the work of our commission - our legislation, in the preparation of the rules of procedure. Those who have made it possible, I will say, this training means experts from other European countries who have helped in either Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania or other countries that have established such systems of democratic control, as well as the parliamentarians that we have represented our system, our model. So I think that this is one good reference for all those who have participated directly in the drafting of both the law and this rule that the work has been done well. The other thing is direct work, direct control, which I have mentioned before, is that there must be a measure of trust between the services and between the Parliament, and also a very intensive professional and consistent work of the members of the Commission, which cannot have mercy in the exercise of those powers that Parliament has, and especially the Commission, in Parliament. So I thank you once again for this work that has been done. Regardless of who wins or loses in the next elections, I think that a good foundation has been laid, that this commission will work well, and also on the basis of this rule, which is before us and which - I hope - we will adopt in this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to add a few more thoughts about these praises or success stories. We all know that ignorance of the law is damaging. However, if a particular area is not regulated legally, there is chaos or disorder in this area. This has happened to us members, for example, the commission in the past, when we were on that famous tour in Maribor. If this area were regulated legally, without any conflict, we would have carried out an examination, and we would have put certain services out of the public eye needlessly, which was not right. I think these jobs are on two strikes. The first strike was either the exploitation of these services from internal logs for internal political purposes. We must be aware that political persons, this is the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister, are those political figures who generate legality and who, after all, give certain tasks to these services to be able to carry out these tasks. There is a high likelihood that, if services are not properly organised, they can be used for certain political purposes. Look, two of these cases. The first is that urbans et orbi all over the world, the whole of the earth, have provided central active records, in which not only was the list of former members of the State Security Service, but they have given to every poor citizen who committed a traffic offence or who, I don't know what he stole, the penalty has been fined correctly, they have given to all the intelligence services and to all employers years ago the tool in hand to see whether this and this Slovenian man had a clean past or had no clean past. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whoever published this should be ashamed of him to the bottom of his soul. What did he do in a security sense, and in a personal sense, what did he do for anyone who had ever sinned, served his sentence honestly, and put him on the disgraceful stage of the entire world? Second thing. The publication of various confidential documents, from Depala village to those identified in Youth, was also politically important. All of these documents, which have been published, have not been published in order to bring some prosperity, some security, but have been published solely for the purpose of using these documents for political or political purposes. I think it is a good thing that we have also overcome these things with this rule of procedure. Like a dog on a cat, it is likely that external intelligence services carry out what our internal services do and are probably forced to monitor with all available apparatus what the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission is doing. If the Security Intelligence Supervisory Committee convenes a meeting and places the agenda under points 1, this report and this service, together with a code and everything else, has given no information to another service or other country. Even worse, when it comes to public statements and public statements comment on certain most sensitive areas to the extent that those who make a statement to the public, whoever it is, begin to tell personal stories about things that may be the light prey of foreign intelligence services. It is therefore good that this Rules of Procedure are done in the way it is done. I would do worse if I wanted to be a credible service, i.e. to give a statement to the public only in writing. But there were objections when we made this rule of procedure. It is that an effective overseer is certainly the one who is quiet and you can trust, not the one who has come to some information, but then, for the daily political needs, as soon as the meeting is over, starts spreading them to the public. I think that the commission in this composition was what - what colleague Marsic said - we have come up with a lot of interesting information that could still be used in the day-to-day political life, but in this period - if you look at it - almost nothing has come out of this commission. There is something else - as we have been called - that we are also the last dogs or something similar, in a good way in relation to these jobs - that every chairman or employee of this service will have a bloody thought before going and having an affair without counting on him to answer for all these things to the Commission and, as a result, through a report to the Members of the entire National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is right for the National Assembly to receive this report once a year and to become acquainted with them. In short, I could agree that with this law, we have achieved an active partnership between parliamentarians and investigative services, that we have also talked more easily, not only about the legislation of one and the other when we adopted it - because we were the parent working body for them - but we have also helped and listened to when we talked about the budgetary resources or resources they have for their secret funds and operate through specific operating methods and means. I think we can say that, as far as legislation is concerned and as far as the work of the Commission itself as such is concerned, this period of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services has certainly been of good quality. However, for the time being, it has been of less quality, since we have had to deal with this tool enough, that we have come at all in this way of cooperation and trust, and less in the resolution of certain things. Now that it is a tool, we also hope that when we get involved in individual cases as supervisors, these too will be able to achieve different results than they were before. Once again, we are establishing an active partnership. I think that the colleagues who will succeed us will be less likely to work and that good legal parliamentary supervision can only contribute to the quality of national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word? You don't want to. The time for discussion has not yet come. I'm asking if anyone else would like a word in the extension? Mr. Jerovšek. All right, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Earlier, I had forgotten to stress the psychological strength of the legal and business solutions provided by the law on the supervision of intelligence services and also by the rules of procedure. And also the powers that are on the committee on this day. Our German colleagues also reminded us, during their visit to Germany, of the extraordinary psychological strength in a normal country, which some institutions and some of the powers given to these monitoring commissions have. I firmly believe that if we had these acts regulated at the beginning of our term of office, this anomaly, mentioned by my colleague Moga, would not have occurred when the commission was prevented from entering the service unit, explicitly into the service unit. I think things are so clearly set up that something like this can't happen. This Rules of Procedure certainly prevent the manipulation of the State and individuals, as well as any manipulation by the members of the Commission. I would like to point out that the Commission's cooperation or that the Commission has acted exceptionally in this mandate, and that it has repeatedly warned the directors of the services that services sometimes fail to inform them mainly of certain, in our opinion - border actions or actions. I hope that at least one of the directors of the services, on the basis of the Commission's warnings, has made internal organisational moves when he found that he was not fully informed that this was happening by his subordinates. The directors of the service have been politically incapacitated, which is the right thing to do. In other countries, too, they have plenty of time and, at least for a period of time, some internal opposition and even sometimes services operate on some of their own routes. It is therefore appropriate for the Commission to have the power to consider that these powers are duly regulated in laws and regulations. This is very important. Today, it has been repeatedly stressed that the Commission has worked very well in this mandate. Of course, I agree, and as President of the Commission, I thank you for these praises. One of the results of good work is the rules of procedure that are before us today. At the same time, the Commission's work in this mandate has shown, in my opinion - that we have a very capable, constructive and country-building opposition in Slovenia. In fact, through this Commission, we have had a certain impact and have acted constructively and nationally. Because of everything that was said today that the Commission has done something, I would like to thank my colleagues here on the committee for really constructive cooperation. I hope that we have moved something to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Not only to my colleagues, I would also like to thank the Commission's secretary, Ms Marinka Bogolin, who has been extremely conscientious in the preparation of professional bases and coordination between legal experts and Members. She seemed incredibly self-sacrificing. I think we should thank the secretary of the commission, too. In fact, I would like this Rules of Procedure and this Act, which we will adopt, to be an appropriate basis and a good basis for the Commission's successful work in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the completed proposal for an act, the vote on the act will take place today in the framework of the vote at 21.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And the next notice. We continue at 4.20 p.m. to consider the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme of State Finance and Real Estate for 2004 and 2005. Thank you all very much. So we continue at 4:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - DETAILED PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL FACILITIES FOR 2004 AND 2005. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome Mr Mitja Valič, Director of the Service of the Joint Services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who also gives him the floor to further explain the motion for a decree. [[He doesn't want to.]] The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u121	Good afternoon, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, addressed the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the 2004 and 2005 sales programme of state-owned financial and real property at its 62nd emergency meeting. In doing so, we have devoted the most time to the following questions: the question of the relevance of deciding on the sale of individual types of assets, such as photocopying machines, cars and the like; the question of how much State property the State intends to sell or whether the government has a balance sheet of all state assets. Furthermore, members of the Committee also paid particular attention to the issue of the sale of buildings that are falling apart and have not yet been sold or incorporated by the Government in the asset sales programme. In this regard, the issue of the guards, otherwise managed by the Ministry of Defence, has been highlighted in particular. The further fate of these objects depends on the expectation or conduct of the custodians of this property. Possible pasta, both the sale of objects and their transfer to the local community. All the guards shall be sold at a public auction because their value exceeds the maximum amount specified by the government regulation. If the value of the property is less than 2 million tolars, the property may also be sold directly. The transparency of the auction is ensured by its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia as well as in the daily newspaper. It is in the interest of the government to sell the assets at the highest possible price at a given time. A question was also raised regarding the deterioration of state-owned buildings. In particular, it was pointed out that the State should adequately protect its assets. After receiving the appropriate answers to all the above questions, the Committee adopted the proposed decree as a whole. Accordingly, I propose to the National Assembly a decision to confirm that proposal for divestment of state and real property for 2004 and 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to your views on the motion for a ruling. Dr. Jože Bernik gets the first word for New Slovenia's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Mr. Valic, colleagues and colleagues! This proposal for sale is quite interesting and has quite a few puzzles. For the first time, it is a complementary proposal based on some of the important proposals made by our legislative and legal service. This travel agent is very welcome. But as a passenger, it's not unless it's left in the memory of everyone who's dealing with the sale. Although the title of this decree also speaks of financial assets - but as far as I can see - there is no financial asset in this list. If I remember correctly, we haven't had one in a while. The legislative and legal service has rightly pointed out that such a proposal requires a slightly better explanation of the whole procedure and all the essentials of such a sale. The items sold are very different, as cheap as the nature of this property, i.e. all of the smallest value not for the smallest value, but very low values from outdated office machines, cars, land flats and the like. The reader of such an extensive sales programme on 85 pages is actually asked a lot of questions, but the agreement is difficult to obtain, although at the meeting of our committee we received some clarifications. If I understand correctly - following the explanation of the proposal in the Rapporteur - sales are expected to be around 5 billion 603 million tolars in 2004. In the following year, two billion 210 million tolars, which is, of course, quite a sum if the value of this property is real. Here the question arises immediately whether this value is more or less accurate, is approximate or anything, since the reader does not know or know, does not need to know how and when it was assessed what the value was, what the condition is and what the maintenance costs are. He also cannot know whether this price is bookkeeping or real or similar. We have repeatedly talked about the need for a limited list of more appropriate estimates or sums, since the sale of old office machines and so on should certainly not be included in this list. The National Assembly should not deal with such things. This should be made available to those who are in this service and who then make arrangements with the government, how and what. The old saying says "Deminis non curat lex" is said by small things the law does not deal with. I think it would be appropriate for us once to agree thoroughly on what to do on this list, what value and so on. The other thing that would be interesting to have is that we would like to get a full assessment of the value of all the assets that the state has and perhaps some have also indicated what the government is planning to do with it. I don't know if anyone in the country even knows how much property this kind of country has, what it's worth. I think it would be necessary - even though this may sound very ignorant - to indicate how this property is carried out and how it is assessed. We also discussed on the committee how the state advertises these auctions. In my understanding, this is a bit too modest, so people are not necessarily informed about this matter. I also think that someone from the government should review the whole thing and make some plan of how this thing - I would say - to lead more consistently and transparently. Although I am not saying that the services of the common services are now lacking, they are probably not able to come up with all the things they have so that they can propose. I think this is an expert work that should be regulated by accounting and economic experts. At the end of the year, or before the state budget or the draft state budget every year or every two years, it would be appropriate for the government to take stock of what it has and also present to the national assembly, so that Members and the public will know about it. Otherwise, it can be a matter of budget manipulation and so on. In any case, I think this work has been done well. However, in the current situation, it seems to me that this work would be even better if we changed the methodology and improved our business in a more modern way that other countries certainly have. I'm sure the Director knows that. I hope that he too will take note of this and propose changes to the government for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you! Dr. Bernick. Bogdan Barovic has the word, the position of the Slovenian National Party!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished guests, colleagues, colleagues! The fact is that in the Slovenian National Party's review of the rapporteur and the proposal we insist on or stem from the view that the sales programme includes assets for which the public administrations estimate that it is no longer necessary and that it does not correspond to the purpose of use and that it is therefore rational - which I like to believe - to be sold out. 5 billion in 2004. I think the value of this asset is around 2 billion in 2005. It is also right that the Government has replaced and tabled a new proposal at the end of June. In particular, on the basis of a number of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. That's what it is. The legislative and legal service also assessed the complementary sales programme as more transparent. Well, some things are still unresolved. It is right to point them out because I think we are talking about this sale of property in this mandate for the second time, not but the previous one. In particular, there is a lack of justification for the reasons for the sale, in particular for the lack of explanation of assets of greater value. This is not about - not misinterpreting - mistrust, but in fact it is true that the explanation of at least those greater values would be absolutely necessary simply because of the transparency of the work, as well as because of our easier decisions. It is also true that the government representative - I think - pointed out that there was an emphasis on the preparation of a motion for a decree. In fact, this emphasis is already the starting point for what we have already heard, that it would be good if the government or the state had a list or a balance sheet of state assets to know what it has and what is actually useful or useless for use and useful for sale. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to draw attention to a few things that have also been mentioned at a number of meetings, but also among the members of the Finance Committee in particular. Above all, that is true - I think we are already speaking for the second time in this mandate - I reiterate that it would be really necessary - we have already said years ago, I do not know whether it was 2000 or 2001 - to determine which property the government should sell itself beyond the national assembly. Indeed, it is not necessary for the National Assembly, on the one hand, to decide on the sale - but I do not know if I will use the term "reversible or less-valued assets" correctly - and which assets should be the ones whose sale is to be decided by the National Assembly. That's the point. I think we've made this decision in the same order once. But apparently he wasn't involved. I also point out once again that in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that it is necessary to have a balance sheet of assets and time at all levels, especially at this level, for a time now, for example, it is time - to point out that preparations, assessments, which assets may or may not be useful, with the government, and that it would be good to sell them because of rational business. So the next rapporteur would be more transparent with this sale. In addition, we would like to draw attention to another issue in the Slovenian National Party, namely the sale or the destruction of buildings. That's what we've been warned about. So these are objects that you don't even know about. They're falling apart. We know who owns or is not on the list of objects or objects for sale, nor are they maintained. We also understand the Government, which has stated that as far as these facilities are concerned, they are concerned to the best of their means available so that they cannot do much. This is why it would be very good for the Slovenian national parties to put such sites on the list and to dispose of them or actually maintain them or to determine whether they are necessary or not and to place them on the balance sheet of the country. We will not object to the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the sales programme of state, financial and real property for 2004 and 2005 in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much! Master Andrej Vizjak? No, no, no. Cyril Pucko, position of the LDS Club. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! In the programme we have ahead of us, I would like to add two in particular on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club. First time. In order for the government to effectively implement or manage state assets and in this regard implement the budget for this year, this programme needs to be adopted urgently. Another time. In view of the fact that, through the procedure, the original decision on the sale of state and real property has been replaced by a new, improved, containing certain additional or subsequently established state assets necessary, due to rational behaviour and transparency, we believe that such a proposal is good enough for the government to implement the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this year and, on the other hand, effectively and rationally and transparently manage state property. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much! Ivan Bozič, the position of SLS. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the last meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, the government and its services of the common services offer us an administrative act which will allow us to sell a number of properties of various ministries that no longer benefit from their purpose and need to be sold. For EUR 30 million, real estate represents around 4.5% of the expected annual turnover of the real estate market. With this sale, the government will reach out to the real estate market and allow potential tenants to purchase conveniently. Almost, yes, a preeminent gift - if we look at it that way. The entire business project of the port in Bled for 290 euros per square meter, apartment in the strictest center of Maribor, on Ashkercheva Street for 200 euros per square meter and so on. The list is also a statement of the potential agreed in the local community for the difficult to expect sales of state property, where public auctions need to be sold and those prices will serve only as a starting point. Nevertheless, many questions have been asked to the uneducated. Only the answer to them gives us a more appropriate picture of what it is, in fact. Valuation of real estate is a highly professional work that deserves all respect. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Government's Common Services Service has given us the names of the value value value value holders who valued individual real estates. It would also be good if the lists were equipped with more substantial data on the real estate situation, such as the year of construction, any renovation, or any data on the property’s possible condition, which has a significant impact on its value - this is a completely neglected and not a maintenance facility or the like. There's a lot of them in our country. An essential information is also the current use of real estate, which may indicate that, if possible in an apartment that is for sale, it may not be a person who has an indefinite lease, which means that the person in the apartment has a prior right or that the market value of such real estate is significantly lower than it would have been otherwise. All this information has not been submitted to us by the proposer of this programme and has prevented us from making a real assessment of the eligibility of such sales. On the contrary, there is a large list of equipment and low-cost vehicles, even less than 1,000 tolars per piece. The list and its size only blur the sales programme for the years 2004 and 2005. We hope that the government will only draw up a list of state assets in the next term. This will make it much easier to decide how to sell, and more customers will do so. We'll support the decree. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much! These were the views of the groups of Members. With this, if you do not object, I would conclude the debate because there is no general debate between Members and Members. Anybody else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. Would you like a representative of the government to say a word? [[No, no, ……]] So, I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We will vote on it in the framework of the vote at 9.45 a.m. I'm breaking up the agenda. At 6 p.m., we'll move on to the 21st item of the agenda. Until then, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u131	We're moving to 21. Point - to the defence of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to say hello to the representatives of the government among you. I invite the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Lucko Lorber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a proposal to amend the decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the three Slovenian universities. First, I would like to present the changes of the University of Ljubljana. Therefore, on the basis of Article 15 of the Higher Education Act, which defines the adoption of the establishment act of the Public Higher Education Institute, we amend the decree in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Allow me to briefly summarize the proposal for these amendments. In Article 1, which defines the activities of the university and the members, it is also necessary to redefine other activities as they concern harmonisation, the standard classification of activities defined by the new Standard Classification Regulation. This act was adopted in 2002. Article 2 speaks of the composition of the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana. The composition of the Management Board is defined by Article 22 of the old Higher Education Act. It shall be supplemented and amended by the amendment of this Act in the third paragraph. The Higher Education Act defines the university's board of directors as the administration of the higher education institution. In addition to the tasks laid down by law, the Management Board shall also decide on matters of a material nature and shall take care of the smooth material operation of the higher education institution. Until the amendment of the decree, the boards of all three Slovenian universities were drawn up in the same principle. So their members had representatives of the founder, representatives of workers who manage higher education activities, representatives of students and representatives of other workers. With amendments to the Higher Education Act, where we have followed the Bologna principle, we propose that a member of the Management Board is also a representative of employers. In this way, the composition of the Governing Board shall be amended by electing the founders of three of their representatives, four of them from the types of university, three of them from the types of workers engaged in higher education activities, higher education teachers, academics and higher education workers, and one representative from other workers. One representative shall be attended by students and one representative by employers. In summary, the founders have three members. Five members have a university, one is a representative, one is an employer, and the university, through a public call, establishes agreement with the founder of the candidates proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of OGISTA, the Association of Managers of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to conclude by stressing that all three universities have proposed a different composition of their boards and that we have reached a coordinated proposal with universities on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. I would also like to point out that we have also established financial autonomy for universities through the Higher Education Financing Regulation. So 43 billion 711 million were transferred by the study activity contract to the university in 2004. An agreement on common positions in the implementation of this Regulation has also been signed. In this way, financial autonomy was also established at the time of the academic organisation. In this way, I think that we can apologize for being founding members of the board of directors, and in this way we can also keep an eye on the implementation of the work programme and the financial plan that the university is drawing up and adopting. These are key changes to the University of Ljubljana decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Mohet, to present the report. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The Committee considered this decree at its 33rd meeting. With regard to the legislative and legal position, the ruling was given the opinion of the legislators. They had a comment, which is rare in the case of legal acts - only to Article 2. They pointed out that the proposed amendment in the composition of the Administrative Committee of the University would have proportionally increased the impact of its members appointed or given consent to their appointment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Also, the Rector of the University of Ljubljana - we also received a letter from the University of Ljubljana - was not satisfied with the composition of this body and proposed that this body change so that universities have a majority in the Administrative Committee. The representative of the Education, Science and Culture Union also opposed the article that defined the composition of the Management Board. He demanded this and tried to achieve that a proposal for the appointment of workers who are on the board of directors and who are of the kind of people employed at the university would be given a union. On the Committee, the proposal did not receive support because the decree gives only the composition of the Council, but not who appoints and leaves the proposers of these people to the statutes of universities. The representative of the Slovenian Student Organisation also said that the composition of the board of directors was not good and even demanded that the number of people on the board of directors should be reduced by one and that the number of students on the board of directors should increase by one. The members of the Committee objected to the proposed Article 2. As a result, they have tabled an amendment which has made it possible, instead of proposing a decree, to turn four people of the type of founders into three of the types of founders and instead of three of the two employees of higher education. Thus, the ratio of the university to the outside members, which was before 4:5, changed from 5:4. The same model is not to repeat - the committee used in the other two decrees that we will talk about. Finally, it must be said that due to the late application of these decisions, Article 4 has also been corrected. By proposing with the amendment a deadline for the establishment of the boards of directors instead of on 1 October on 15 December. That was also what the university people agreed on. But this battle must be understood in the next light. After amendments to the 2000 Higher Education Act, the university obtained, in addition to autonomy, to set up the programme itself, in addition to staff autonomy, to appoint its own titles, also financial autonomy, which has in fact been applied only this school year by the adoption of the decision. This means that from this school year onward the university also distributes, funds get global and distributes them. It is certainly the body which can have the greatest impact on the allocation of these funds that is the administrative committee of the University. That is why, as I said before, we needed more than an hour and a half to come up with a solution that was agreed by both the founders and the university. This means that on the boards of all three universities there will be five members from the University and four members from other backgrounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President of the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate that the university, whatever it is in Slovenia, become autonomous. Why does it matter? Because autonomy and at the same time creating conditions of competitiveness is the best way to achieve the quality of the university and the quality of the study. Then we can really expect not to be on the tail of European scales as far as universities are concerned. Because there is no Slovenian university among the first 300 by quality in Europe. It is therefore to be hoped that a better position will also be created on the basis of these competitive conditions. However, other factors certainly contribute to the quality of the university. The professors at the university have to get to the flow of knowledge, ideas, freshness of new professors, not become the university of skeletons. In addition to the Governing Board, which shall be redefined. First, the government tried to present a solution in which the founder, including probably employers, would have a majority position. The autonomy of the university would be enhanced. The legislative and legal service also had a comment on this. The proposal, with the amendment adopted by the Education Committee, has led to the creation of a better one with regard to the establishment of autonomy. The second amendment refers to the addition of the classification or to this registration in accordance with the standard classification. It means harmonising or making these changes. In short, these amendments relate, i.e. to the new Higher Education Act, which provides for one place to be allocated to employers in this Administrative Committee in accordance with the Bologna Process. In this way, I hope that the impact of the economy will be ensured in a good way, so that the university becomes a better provider and a catalyst for people, experts who will be able to deal with them in a challenging economic and other different environment within Europe and beyond. So, these changes are sort of in line with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the updated proposal for a resolution on amendments and additions to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana. It also complemented the proposal for a decree to reshape the University of Maribor and the University of Primorska, as all three decrees focus on one common point. This is compliance with the recently adopted Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. This provides in Article 6 for the composition of the Management Board. It was therefore expected that the change would take place without further discussion. However, the issues already dealt with related to the autonomy of the university in the management and relationship between the external and internal members of the Management Board have been reopened. Although the proposed amendments, which have turned the original composition towards internal membership, could therefore have lost their focus, the proposal for a representative of employers in the board of directors remained questionable. However, in the Higher Education Act, now amended article 22 states that: "the Management Board of the Higher Education Institute set up by the Republic of Slovenia consists of representatives of the founder, representatives of workers performing higher education activities, representatives of students, representatives of other workers and representatives of employers." In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the most acceptable proposal was the University of the Sea, which, as the youngest, was also the easiest to adapt to the new aspirations by which they gain power in the performance of employers on the one hand, students on the other. The link between higher education and research activities with other social subsystems will need to be established, as the Lisbon Strategy also stresses the urgent increase in the share of private resources for research and development. Therefore, their expectation that they could become more involved in codecision is understandable. However, those who point out that a representative of employers is not just an economy. Therefore, the proposal to exclude employers from the Management Board cannot be supported. Unfortunately, however, the proposal of the University of the Sea to obtain students instead of one of two representatives on the board of directors did not receive support. However, following the dictated in Article 22, it could be concluded that the legislator had in mind more than one student representative, as he specifically appointed one representative for other university workers. While we believe in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats that the Statute of the University can determine who qualified candidates for individual groups of members of the Governing Board, such as individual ministries, the Chamber of Commerce and the like. We therefore understand that it cannot only be attributed to employees who are proposing. However, we cannot agree that a representative union could be deprived of such a role if membership in the union is not compulsory or that trade unions cannot be interlocutors in the body in which it is decided on matters contrary to the essential elements of the trade union work. It was said that students and trade unions only compete for rights. We therefore expect that the representative unions will also be given a role by the statute as a qualified proposer, since it is the organised operation of employees, highly educated, who appear to be also motivated to participate in management, especially where the proposal does not link to compulsory membership in the union. Let me add that we also support other changes in all three decrees, in particular the enrichment of the internal structure of the University of Maribor with the creation of a new member, this is the Faculty of Logistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u140	Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! We have before us a motion for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. The main reasons mentioned by the proposer are to complement the internal structure of the University in Ljubljana, to coordinate the activities of the University with the standard classification of activities. It also adds a new field of study in the Faculty of Sport, which is certainly commendable. For there has never been a healthy life, and it will never be too long. The decree before us also means compliance with Article 22 of the Higher Education Act, where the Management Board of the Higher Education Institute set up by the Republic of Slovenia consists of representatives of the founder, representatives of workers, professors, representatives of students, representatives of other workers and representatives of employers. We found it completely unacceptable in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that a government proposal it wanted to implement. She proposed a majority membership in the committee with which she questioned the autonomy of the university, i.e. an institution which in the first place had to be the biggest opposition to the ruling policy. Well, according to the legislative and legal notices, the mother's working body with the amendment is this removal. The amended proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana is therefore not disputed for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and will be supported in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Welcome to the representatives of the government and to all fellow Members! We have before us a new decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, which is more or less due to the amendment of the Higher Education Act. We have also changed this law because of the development of the university, but also partly because of the processes that are taking place in this area in Europe, which allow for greater comparability of programmes and the transition of students, and also allow for the participation of other resources in the financing of the university. However, these changes that we are witnessing with this decree are not all in the spirit of the independence of the university. On the one hand, financial transactions are transferred to universities to be managed independently by universities. On the other hand, by strengthening the role of the founder in the administrative boards, the political and administrative supervision of the State is increasing. This makes the independence of the university more or less a declaration and is also a real issue. The proposed composition of the Governing Board, although it is intended to be coordinated, proves that the policy pursued by the government over the past decade in this area has no intention of withdrawing either from this or from any other area of education and education and wants to maintain political control at all costs. How do you explain that in a nine-member board of independent universities, the founder proposes a government, directly three representatives, and indirectly the fourth, since it is the founder, says the government, the co-ordinator of the appointment. This gives the government tremendous power and allows great and often unjustifiable interventions to the autonomy of the university as well as unnecessary politicisation and polarisation. However, it shows that things cannot be arranged at this time and that they are not going to work out without it. Instead of taking seriously the work of the university which the university is most concerned with and which is most familiar with, these are, in particular, lecturers and other employees and partly students, a number of things, including the management of the university, are passed on to remote and slightly more secret authorities and centres, which in the background manage the integrity of decisions. I don't think it's necessary for the management and control of the university to be governed this way. It becomes evident that it is necessary to cement the system and make it controlled and also to protect it from future, later, harmful influences or changes. It is the politicization of the university, it is unacceptable and we oppose such work. We also do not understand the opposition to increasing the representation of students in this body, who would be justified to at least the same proportion as they already have in some other bodies. Students are those to whom the institution is intended, and it is therefore appropriate that, as adults, as responsible, they also make a more equal decision. The marginalisation of students cannot be in line with the tendency that an increasing proportion of the population continues to be educated, in this case tertiary. At the same time, this part of the population is denied and restricted to the right to decide precisely on the institutions which are their first or second home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Richard Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished secretary of state and co-workers. We have before us a proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the decisions on the creation of the University of Ljubljana. The law on higher education defines the university as an autonomous research, artistic and educational institution with a special position. The National Assembly shall, however, be responsible for the adoption of an act establishing a public higher education institution and another institution of a member of the university. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded to Parliament a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. It proposed an amendment to Article 6 of the current decree, where it adds to the activity of the university, in accordance with the Standard Classification of Activities, the activity of the award of own property in it and the activity of libraries. In addition, a new activity or new personal services study programme was added to the Faculty of Sport, where it is a sport training programme. The new activity has a basis in the decision of the Higher Education Council, which has formulated a positive position on the proposal of the Faculty, which has appropriately defined the study, scientific, research and professional field in its elaboratory for the extension of activities to the personal services field. The Faculty has proven that it has adequate facilities and equipment and personnel. In addition to the starting points and criteria for only assessing the quality and effectiveness of education and scientific and professional work, job opportunities have also been adequately demonstrated. Support for the extension of activities to the sports coaches programme was also supported by the civil social sports sphere, from the Olympic Committee to the Republic's sports sector associations and many sports clubs. The amended proposal for a resolution also amends the first paragraph of Article 9, which defines the Administrative Board of the University as the Managing Authority and defines its composition. In Slovenia's Liberal Democracy Club, like most members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sport, we objected to the proposed Article 2 of the Decree, since, by establishing the majority position of the Government on the Administrative Committee of the University, the issue of the autonomy of the University and other higher schools would in fact be raised, as provided for in Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For the same reason, we also opposed the proposal made by the union representative of education, education, science and culture, which proposed that workers' representatives on the university's board of directors should be appointed on the proposal of representative unions. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that by adopting the amendment of the committee to Article 2 of the decree, the composition of the administrative board of the university has been sufficiently well regulated. We also agree with the solution to extend the deadline for the establishment of the Administrative Committee of the University until 15 December 2004. We will support the decree and thus enable the university to start or continue the necessary activities to successfully integrate it into the Bologna process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Barovic, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I think that the content has been given correctly from all sides, as well as the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. But there's one interesting thing that I have to mention because it's really interesting to me. Here we have three different versions of the proposal for the number of representatives to the Management Board. The government offers four, the Rector of Prof. Jože Mencinger, for example, two representatives of the founder, the Education Committee, as well as an amendment that I think is valid, three. That's very interesting. It's just an illustration. If it were possible, given that we're talking about a decision, to find out because I admit that I don't know why this desire is so strong. On the part of the Government, four representatives of the founder and only two by the Rector, and on the board, the Solomonic solution probably three. I'm really interested in you personally. That's why I'll be happy to have an answer if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Beumann? [[No, no, ……]] Perhaps a representative of the government? Mrs. Lorber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me. During this year, we were aware that the law on higher education and the amendment of this law was a key objective of increasing the autonomy of Slovenian universities and in some ways moving the country away from both academic and financial autonomy. I would like to remind Members in particular that none of the universities has proposed their two members, because they are an integral part of the university not only the higher education teachers, but also the higher education workers, they are professional workers of the university and, of course, students. So, in any case, the university had four, the founder was proposed with four members and one agreed together, that was our first proposal. Why did this proposal come about? We've relied on two things. One was that, for the first time, all public funds for study activity are transferred to the university, as I said in the introduction, and, of course, the university has assumed full responsibility and thus, of course, autonomy for business. And given that we are talking about public institutions and that we are also talking about public funds, it was purely normal to conclude that the country has some control over public resources. Another reason was this, if you allow me to quote the Constitutional Court's opinion that "autonomy, therefore not only means the legally guaranteed possibility that the University adopts its statutes and other acts, but the State undertakes to demarcate the field completely autonomous from the field of public and in the standardisation of higher education lays down basic legal, human resources, administrative and financial frameworks for the functioning of state universities, rules of fundamental relations between entities within the university and the position of the public in the management and control of the university." That's what we came up with. Finally, I would like to point out that, with amendments to the Higher Education Act, we have also allowed the participation of students to be increased to one-fifth in the composition of all the bodies of the university. So I think that, in some ways, the autonomy of the university that we come from was increased in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The time for discussion has not yet expired. Anybody want a word? Mr. Petty Officer. Anyone else? Just a moment, Mr. Tiny, just to see if anyone else would like to. No, no, no. You have five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u150	Well, by the largest university, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Ljubljana, the initiative was therefore given that there was no need for any change in the meaning of what we had before. However, according to the amended law, something had to be done at least with regard to employers, in line with the Bologna process. Autonomy is not some kind of oath that would otherwise be as good as autonomy on its own, but it is a basic condition to establish quality. Competitiveness, including in the economy, preventing monopolies is what guarantees quality. And if we need anything in this Slovenia, we need competitiveness and pompousness. Both between universities, to establish competitiveness, as well as on the inside, among professors, to make a real living stream and also to replace quality with quality. I mentioned the city that the University of Ljubljana has on this scale, however it has already been rated; it is where we have been ranked. But there are also some other indicators on the longevity of the study. Even in this segment or according to this criterion of the Slovenian University or Slovenian higher education is not at an appropriate level. This is influenced not only by the university but also by other factors mentioned earlier this morning. This is, of course, an appropriate scholarship policy, an appropriate social policy that allows people who are willing and talented to be educated, but not just those who have the money to do so. The next is a large rash, especially in some colleges in the first or second year, which means losing money, losing human resources. And the third is the transfer of knowledge, which is modest. You can identify the transfer of knowledge in the value added that occurs in the economic sector and in the number of inventions. We're also here on the tail of the ladder. This means that this knowledge acquired at the university is not usable, does not flow into added value in economic and other fields. Therefore, even as regards the economy, when they went to identify the factors of competitiveness and economic development, they found that competitiveness, the establishment of the right conditions for healthy competitiveness, is the most powerful factor in ensuring quality. Therefore, as regards the composition of the board of directors, regardless of the fact that the representatives of the State do not normally participate in the full composition, it is important that the so-called internal members, in particular the professors, who carry out the activity, have an important impact. Otherwise, they will take care of themselves where they are, in particular by creating competitiveness and the possibility of providing entry places. They will fight for entry and quality, and this is the creation of the right conditions for the autonomy of the university. So autonomy as a condition for quality. Clearly, however, there is more rigidity in our education, and we are not yet achieving these goals to the extent that Slovenia should be able to establish itself as a prosperous country in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate. We will vote on the motion for a decree today at 9.45 a.m. in line with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the meeting until 19.20 hours, when we move on to the 22nd item of the agenda, the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor. Until then, I'm adjourning. So we continue at 7:20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u152	Dear Members, honourable Members! We're moving on. So we're going to move on to 22. On the basis of a proposal and a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to invite the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Lucko Lorber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to introduce a change to the decree on the amendments and additions to the transformation of the University of Maribor. A key change, the proposed amendment is the proposal to establish a Faculty of Logistics. The initiative for the establishment of the Faculty of Logistics is many years old, initiatives have been taking place since 1998 and 2000, both in Celje and in Krk and Maribor. The coordination of various initiatives was then taken over by the University of Maribor, submitted by an elaboratory approved by the bodies of the University of Maribor and discussed this role in the world for higher education or in the expert committees of this Council.The panel of expert opinions was positive and on the basis of positive opinions, the High Education Council gave a positive opinion on the fulfilment by law of certain conditions for the establishment of the Faculty of Logistics of the University of Maribor, which was to have its seat in Celje and a permanently dispersed unit in Krskem. On the basis of the establishment of the Faculty of Logistics, we also propose an amendment to Article 2, where the activity of the University of Maribor would be expanded to include the possibility of carrying out a study programme or complementing transport services. We also propose to extend the activity of personal service to enable the Faculty of Education of the University of Maribor to sign a new study programme, i.e. for the education of sports coaches. We have already presented a proposal for a change to the ruling relating to the composition of the Management Board in the decision of the University of Ljubljana, by proposing that the proposed amendments to the decree of the University of Maribor be adopted and confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! In addition to these amendments to the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor, the representative of the Faculty of Law and Rector of Maribor had similar comments as I mentioned earlier in the decision on the establishment or transformation of the University of Ljubljana, this is about the composition of the Administrative Board. In a similar manner to the previous decision, the Committee has also adopted two amendments here. The first amendment to amend the Governing Board, as I said at the previous point and the second amendment, which in this regard gave an additional deadline for the establishment of the Management Board, as mentioned in the previous point. When Members and Members took note of the internal structure of the University of Maribor, which is complemented by the creation of a new member of the Faculty of Logistics, they did not have significant comments, but there was some debate when they took note of the expansion of activities in the Faculty of Education with personal services, with a new study programme for sports coaches. A member of the committee asked the Minister whether there were too many of these personnel, i.e. sports coaches, because the reasons for the decision did not show to him what the Minister explained to him that the Council for Higher Education had in its decision whether or not to grant such a programme had more material and that it would then forward the building to a member of the Board and that it was justified to open such a study programme. At the same time, a member of the committee also drew attention to the long-standing efforts of the Faculty of Chemistry following the completion of the study programmes and expressed his expectation that the problem would be resolved as soon as possible. The Minister explained to him that these programmes cannot be subject to a decision until they go through the procedure or through the Higher Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, the Committee then voted on all the articles together when it adopted the two amendments, and adopted them. There is a motion for a decree before you, which I ask you to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to receive a new member of the University of Maribor through this decree, namely the Faculty of Logistics. Especially because he has a headquarters in Celje and a dislocated unit in Krka. We're very supportive of that. Given the fact that we've always stressed that we also need to scatter these colleges a little bit. Another feature of this novel is the extension of teaching activity, or extension of the program to the faculty of education. We support that, too. However, we were a little skeptical about the article, or the proposal, for the board of directors, because we felt that this initial proposal could overturn the autonomy of universities. That is why we also supported the amendment that came to the committee for this article to be corrected. The New Slovenia Group will support the decree on changes and additions to the transformation of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Janez Komljanec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u159	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State and other members of the Government! Dear Members and Members! This proposal for a decree, sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, complements the internal structure of the University of Maribor, especially with the creation of a new member, the Faculty of Logistics. It also regulates the standard qualification and study area of the new Member. The proposal for a decree aligns the composition of the university's board of directors with the law on higher education. We believe that, particularly during the transitional period of the university's funding autonomy, it is necessary to monitor the use of public funds intended for universities, and therefore we consider that the adoption of the amendment, which provides for the composition of the Administrative Board, is justified and reasonable. The LDS Group will support the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the reform of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a decree on the reshaping of the University of Maribor is intended to be the result of an adopted law on higher education, specifically in that part which is intended to define the composition of the Administrative Board, which certainly represents more than just a cosmetic correction in relation to the declared autonomy of the University. Other causes are the new definition of other activities in student homes, and most likely, the formation of a new Faculty of Logistics based in Celje with the financial participation of the local community, the municipality of Celje. The change is also a new field of study in the faculty of education, it is a program of sports training. Although the proposal is very short, the consequences can be very difficult and long-term. This is primarily about the composition of the board of directors. There can be no autonomy, neither financial nor management, nor programming, nor any other, if the composition of committees, not only this, but also others, is not autonomous. The initial proposal made by the government was a mockery of autonomy. The complementary proposal drawn up on the Committee is significantly better, and it still introduces a lot of uncertainty. It's not just about dividing the staff of the university and the founder, because it's not. It is also a responsibility to take a decision, and if the path is a decision that is built even by law, it cannot produce anything good. The path of the decision-making position shall not generate any autonomy. At the university, however, there is something else, the flexibility of adapting the university itself, and above all of the university's members, to the challenges of the human resources market. We still have this area at another time, and therefore the original proposal of the Governing Board's composition was totally unacceptable, although it is not directly related to this subject, and it certainly has wider implications for this area. On 1 May, Slovenian universities and their members are also part of the European space, whether we like it or not. It's a battle for space on the 400 million-dollar education market. No one will be able to administratively prevent our students from studying outside Slovenia. Only and exclusively quality will play a decisive role. Therefore, every attempt by the model of chicken and chicken on the route of the government - the Slovenian University of Control - is incomprehensible. Any continuation of the ideology of the school system will and could have catastrophic consequences for Slovenia. It should be stressed that autonomy must be understood substantially differently after 1 May. Everything that happens in the field of education happens after May 1st in the European Union. We're not closed anymore. Any experiment can have terrible consequences. Correctional exams are almost impossible, so to speak. In this regard, the Bologna Declaration came as a real blessing and brought the sobriety into our space. The untouchable space has become and becomes the subject of debates like any other, and only this can bring fresh wind, smoke, which after May 1st is still necessary and necessary. The amended proposal being addressed by the amendment, the composition of the Management Board, is better, but if it is sufficient, it will show time. However, I would like to mention the fact, and in the SDS we are pleased to see a new university of logistics based in Celje. We are convinced that the Savino region is a good place to put such an educational institution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will refer to the decree, which was also drawn up by the Committee and formed on the Committee, and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. I now invite Members and Members to the floor. Mr. Jerovšek first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Education! With this amended decree on the University of Maribor, I would like to say that I am pleased that the University of Maribor is expanding, that this Maribor alma mother is becoming comprehensive, that she will provide services to students in all areas. I also welcome the establishment of the Faculty of Logistics as well as the additional possibility of studying sports training. I think the University of Maribor is slowly configured into a whole that we Styrians are happy and need. In doing so, I would like to say that it seems to me that in the composition of the board of directors, the government and the university should think more modernly. In order to make the autonomy of the university more precise and clear through the board of directors and I think that students should also play a greater role at such a large university, although it is true in Maribor that the student organisation has in some way been corrupt in the past. But of course it is the duty of the university to within the administration of the matter, because today's generations of students cannot be blamed and responsible for what has happened in the past. At the same time, as practically almost Mariborčan from Slovenian Bistrica, because I went to high school in Maribor and because I know the local situation, I would say something about these decrees about Slovenian universities. In Maribor, I think the bishop of Slomšek is turning in his grave. While we did not respond to the name of the coastal university in Italian on the Education Committee as Members elsewhere. Škof Slomšek, who founded theological university in Maribor in order to create a defender of Slovenia on the northern border, must now bear this and all of us, such a depraved name of the University of Primorsk. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is unacceptable that the decision on the University of the Sea to follow would be adopted in such a form. Especially since I listened on Sunday to author Boris Pahor, the age of Slovenian writers, especially the Zamjani, who in this broadcast told our media and our rapporteurs the silenced news that Italian Ambassador Menia said, I hope that this news is true that at Slovenia's entry into the European Union the whole area that was once occupied under Italian administration had to become bilingual.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u164	Please, the University of Maribor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u165	I have to do with what it is. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] I have to say what I missed, and I didn't sign up for Primorska University, and I have to stress that. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u166	You yourself have admitted that you are doing something that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and no one can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u167	I'm sorry, we missed something I have to warn you about as a patriot in Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u168	Mr Jerovšek, please, let's go back to Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u169	All three universities in Slovenia are connected by a respected Madam Vice-President and such a fiakary restriction on the words of Members is unacceptable. So, again, I'm saying. I welcome that at least the University of Maribor is strengthening in some of its integrity, and I hope that in the future it will offer young generations not only good education, but will also strengthen patriotism in the northeast of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm not talking about patriotism. I'm talking about one thing that seems very important to me. That is, we are today adopting this decision and we have previously adopted or will adopt, we have previously discussed, in the decision on the enlargement of the University of Ljubljana, something that is very important for the area of sport in this country. We have one big gap in the education of sports teachers and coaches, who are known practically in all societies, in all clubs, but it is extremely important. It is about working with the most vulnerable generations, these are the generations of children who start the training process, which they train, train, work with, and work with people who are not qualified for this part, says the teacher in connection with the psychology of sport and other matters that are essential. And now that we and I are confident that we will also allow the University of Maribor to introduce training studies, this is, in fact, hidden in the same way as the University of Ljubljana for the very sceptical words of personal service, because that is what it is called, but this is, this is extremely important. In particular, I would say that in an area that is somehow covered by the University of Maribor, because many years ago, when it stopped studying sports pedagogy, there were many needs in these many fifteen, twenty years, of course, and all the time the agreement on this study was expressed with a strong desire in all environments to do so. Of course, sports organisations of sport, from the Olympic Committee, including the professional sports world, have also listened to this, and in short, this matter is now ready, it is before us, and I think it would be very good and useful to support it, and I am pleased that it has finally come to this, because this will be another additional and very necessary step in our sport, in the development of this sport, and above all, I will say, in a quality relationship to the most sensitive young generation that needs to be given extraordinary attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I no longer invite anything to the word because those who have been reported are not in the hall. Would a representative of the government like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. There's still some time left. Would anyone like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, it is not possible to discuss the articles. We will vote on the motion for a decree today at 21 and 45 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and also the meeting until 20:00 and 25 minutes when we are moved to the agenda of the 23rd item, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Primorsk. Thank you very much, so we'll continue at 8:00 and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u173	Dear Members and Members! We're moving to 23. Agenda item - To defend the proposal for a law amending the H and supplementing the decision reshaping the University of Primorska. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a representative of the government to further explain the motion for a decree, that will be Dr. Lucca Lorber, you have the floor. Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, allow us to present a proposal to amend the decision on amendments and amendments to the decision establishing the University of Primorsk. In Article 1, we propose an amendment on the proposal of the Senate of the University of Primorska and on the proposal of the Commission on the question of Italian nationality and the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper. So the proposal is that the name of the University of Primorska in Italian is: "University del Litorale." We are also proposing in Article 2 the translation of the name of two members of the University of Primorsk into Italian, and in Article 2 we are also proposing to define the seat of the new member of the University of Primorsk, these are student homes. Article 3 extends the activity of the University of Primorsk with the activity of students, students' homes and boarding schools. In Article 4, as with the other two decrees, we define the Administrative Board of the University of Primorsk. And another key change that I would like to stress is that the higher education centre in Koper in the 9th Article, established by the municipalities of Izola, the Koper municipality and the municipality of Piran from 1.8.2004, joins the university. The university thus becomes its legal successor and assumes all its assets and rights and obligations. We therefore propose that you confirm the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you, Secretary of State, for further explanation of the proposal. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. The Chairman of the Rudolf Moge Committee will present the report of this Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also met here with different opinions. First, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that, with such a composed administrative committee, the issue of the autonomy of the university was being questioned. The Rector of the University of Primorsk also objected to Article 4, which defined the composition of the Administrative Board. For she believed that such a composition was a powerful influence on the autonomy of the university, as we have heard many times. At the same time, she felt that it should increase student representation. At the same time, she agreed that the composition of the boards should be harmonised for all three Slovenian universities equally. We then did so on the Committee with the amendments to Article 4. And with the amendment to Article 7, we have extended the deadline for the establishment of the Administrative Committee. At the same time, on the proposal of the legislative and legal service, we have also amended paragraphs 5, 9 and 10 by making the decree acceptable to the University of Primorsk, which is also acceptable to the legislative and legal service, meaning that it is legally harmonised. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you adopt such a complementary proposal for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u177	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be given the floor to present their views. Ivan Mamić has the first word to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! At the establishment of the University of Primorska - now I will speak somewhat like a local patriot - the Novogorski part of Primorska or northern Primorska at the time had doubts about the very name of the University of Primorska. We were pessimistic, and now it turns out we were right to be here for the University of Cyprus. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u179	Do not compromise with the representative of the Group of Members, because this is not allowed. You'll have a chance to say your point of view later. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u180	I got a letter on the table today. [[Perhaps you have also received it from other Members of Parliament.]] It's a forum for Goriška. I will read what is most interesting: "The Forum for Goriška has already pointed out the groundlessness of this title at the establishment of the University of Primorsko and suggested that the new university is called "University in Koper", as is the case with universities in Ljubljana and Maribor. In this case there is also no disputed translation into Italian," if the matter is in Cyprus, of course. "Because we all know that there is no Italian minority in Primorsk, but only on the part of the coast, every bilinguality is superfluous. Two-linguality is justified only if the title is "University in Cyprus". In addition, there are, of course, substantive reasons, as students from Goriška do not gravitate to the University of Cyprus and will never be, except in specific programmes such as the High Maritime Schools. We therefore suggest that Members reject the proposed decision establishing the Universit della Primorska, unless we wish to travel ourselves. I thank you and thank you very much, President of the Forum for Goriška, Sergey Pelhan, former Minister of Culture." So nobody mind if someone thinks about some xenophobic stuff to Italian. Where they have bilinguality, it is right that it is Italian, so I absolutely agree and it is also, and I support that. But me, and not just me, and the others, who think the same as it says here, so the northern part of Primorska, we have a little bit of a play. We all know how it was with Politechnika that she was unwanted at first to get involved. They also had their opinion, their thinking, and what was left was not to talk about details now. At that time, Minister Gaber also promised to set up a university in Nova Gorica as soon as possible, but it was not. So that this name the University of Primorsk simply cannot stand. As I have said now, the thinking of the Nova Slovenije Group, which supports me in this regard, is also as well, and we will not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u181	Aurelio Juri's position on the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u182	I won't spare you any time. The position of the Group of Members of the United Nations has already been introduced in its introduction to the points of the Decision on our three universities, Colleague Potrate. We'll support the proposal. All I'm adding is that I'm glad that after one year we finally got the right translation, which was already proposed when the university was established, and then rejected. Now the proponent, of course the government has reached out to the right translation and is proposing it properly. I would only have been out of extreme correctness, as an editorial, but I have not tabled any amendments, warned that "universit" is also focusing on a and "sanit" also on a. So that we will be extremely punctual and I think that in the editorial phase it can also be arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich gets his word. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u184	Colleagues and colleagues! We had two decrees a little earlier. The decree on the University of Ljubljana, the decree on the University of Maribor, we now have it in Primorska. Correct content. We have heard, distinguished representatives, very correct content. It's about autonomy, and now there's a foreigner who came in here. Please! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask you why this decree is different from the other two in the first, second, third article. Why? If the rule is that the University of Cyprus, if the rule of bilinguality is there, is true and should be applied, but why should it be included in the decree? Why the extra articles? Why Italian? Tell me honestly and honestly? Why University del Litorale, Instituto di study tourists di Portorose and so on? Why? Why isn't that in the decree on the University of Maribor? Die Schule, I can't get the proper German out of here. Why isn't that there? Why do you tell me such a difference, ladies and gentlemen? The decree on the University of Ljubljana, the decree on the University of Maribor, was quite clear. It's the autonomy of the university, and if we're doing the same thing, we're doing the same thing. And why now put some Italian into this decree, which may have a right, given that it is in a bilingual area, if it is, if it goes there. Why is that? Tell me again, please. Why is that exactly in this decree? I really want to know why this decree is different from the other two decrees. Why? If the university has that belt that requires bilinguality - right, let the tables be bilingual and the title bilingual, let it all be bilingual. Okay. But why in this decree? Really, I mean, it's not fair, up to the other two decrees, ladies and gentlemen, we've all been here all day, we're all tired. Most of us, at least what I see here, we're just trying, we're working, it's so, it's fair. And now explain to me why suddenly such a change, with what right to decree? I mean, even by the government, it's not fair if it's been preparing or changing, it's not fair, it's not fair to make a difference. We're talking about universities. It's right that it's a university. It's fair that it's a university. I respect that this is the university. We could use some more. Young people are huge who want to study. It is right that we make all the rules of the game as they are, as far as the founders of the board of directors are concerned, as far as the faculty of the board of directors is concerned, everything is fine. But why, in this decree, suddenly three articles: Articles 1, 2 and 3, which also include expressions of non-judgment, if I stress once again - if the university is in the area of bilingual territory, the State of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect bilinguality If it is not, why, why, in this decree? I mean, it's not fair and it's not fair. Take it as you wish, in the Slovenian National Party of this decree, if we do not get a precise answer, we will not support it, absolutely not. With all due respect to the bilingualism in force in Hungary and Italy, with all due respect. But it's not a matter of decision, it's a matter of other laws. And I don't know why these articles are in this decree, why different articles?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u185	Joze Tanko has the floor. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. This provision is also written according to the same concept as the previous one, so the findings relating to part of the content of this decree can be quite similar. Especially the part about the independence or independence of universities. Despite the fact that all three universities have been fully managed with more than ten billion assets, the change in the composition of the university boards will introduce political control, which is certainly contrary to the constitutional solution and independence of universities, is only virtual. A key problem, therefore, is the collapse of policy into university boards, which may mean the return of the criterion of social political suitability or the introduction of a university management approach. Therefore, there is no way to talk about the withdrawal of policies from education, on the contrary. Politics is getting more and more down on it. With these decrees, and also with this decree, the government has gained a great deal of power by appointing as many as four nine members and dispersing the other members accordingly, reducing their power, and so it will be able to exercise its interests easily. A particular problem with the decision on the University of Primorsk is the designation which departs from the other two universities, the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor. For a number of reasons, it would make sense to name this university, the University of Cyprus. First, because of the translation into Italian and because of the area of bilinguality. Italians live in a very small part of Slovenian territory, mainly along the border with Italy and in a narrow coastal zone. They are mostly concentrated in cities where bilingualism is also established. The translation of Kopra into Italian wouldn't even be controversial. The designation of the University of Primorska as the University of Primorska for its translation means an essential geographical extension of the linguistic mix, i.e. a bilingual area, also to a work where there is no Italian life at all. In practice, this proposal, said Primorska, extends the bilingual area almost to the borders of the former province of Ljubljana "provinciadi Ljubljana", which is unacceptable for national, historical and political reasons. We recognize the proposaler's inability to protect Slovenia and our national interest, a marked lack of patriotism, which is certainly not promising for the future of this country. This decree is far more crucial for our country than the Vilna statement. It is interesting that, for this proposal, the Minister has not experienced any media or political response, which just proves that the Government has no sense or judgment, which at some point makes sense, right and right. I think Prime Minister Rob should seriously consider the fate of Minister Gabra for such a non-professional proposal. The proposal is neither school nor scientific. And a lot of this decree tells us about the government itself. Something similar is happening after the end of II. World War II, when an important Slovenian policy is intertwined with the idea of internationalism, wrote down or donated to the neighbouring Republic, the current Croatian, an important part of Istria. And what the government and the school ministry are offering us today is quite comparable. The Italian translation of Primorska is also completely inappropriate, since Litorale is not an adequate translation. It is also a problem of subjugation of Goriška Primorski, which will result in great resistance to the process of regionalisation of Slovenia. We therefore propose that the National Assembly reject this proposal and instruct the Government to prepare a new proposal for a decision, because we cannot allow Slovenia to introduce national concessions and bilinguality even where there is no need for it and where no one asks us to do so. That is why we are firmly opposed to this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you. Richard Beumann has the floor. Position of the LDS Member Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. There is still a third amendment to the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decisions on the creation of a university, this time the University of Primorsk. Like the previous two decrees on amendments and additions to the decision establishing the University of Ljubljana and Maribor, we will also support this decree in the LDS Club. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded a motion for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Primorska into a parliamentary procedure. It proposed a change in the name of the non-reversion in Italian, so that instead of "University de la Primorska" it read "University del Litorale". Although the proposal has caused some controversy in the public work, in the LDS Group, we consider that this change of name to be justified because it is about respecting the principles of bilinguality in the national mixed territory, or the exercise of the right to use Italian language in the area, as recorded by the Italian Nationality Commission of the Municipality Council of Koper in a letter to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on 27 March 2003. The meaning of the Italian word "litorale" or its current use coincides with the Slovenian word Primorska, so it seems that the translation of the word Primorska into Litorale is correct enough. The proposal for a decree also amends the Italian names of the tourism college of Portorož and the Izola High School of Health. The seat of the scientific research centre Koper has been changed and a new member of the university has been added to the dormitory. Ambassador Dorijan Marsič, as first-signed, has tabled an amendment which will give the University of Primorska a year of time for the harmonisation of official documents. The amendment will be supported by MEPs and LDS Members. Also in the case of a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorsk, an article of the current decree is added which adds to the activity of the university, in accordance with the Standard Classification of Activities, the activity of renting and the activity of libraries. In addition, the activities of artistic creation and creation and the activities of student, student and boarding schools are added. The proposal for a decree clearly stipulates that under the same conditions students from other higher education institutions from the municipalities of Koper, Izola and Piran will be able to stay in the university dormitories. The amended proposal for a resolution also amends the first paragraph of Article 9, which defines the Administrative Board of the University as the Managing Authority and defines its composition. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, like most members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sport, we supported the amendment of the Committee, which provides the university with autonomy in accordance with Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, we believe that the adoption of the amendment of the Committee to Article 4 of the decree does well enough to govern the composition of the university's board of directors. Even in the case of the University of Primorsk, we agree with the solution to move the deadline for the establishment of the Administrative Committee of the University from 1 October to 15 December 2004. And, as we say, we will support the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Janez Petnik has a word for his discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. At the outset, I must point out that this proposal is not acceptable, even when we have listened to the debate or opinion of the LDS Group on the bilinguality of the Sea. It's not written anywhere in any constitution, and it's unacceptable. Then we also heard on the committee that some of the opposition are advocating etnocentrism and similar things. Would you like to create a state in Slovenia where the Slovenian language is a minority language or something like that or that it is just a dialect of another big language or a common language, not a big one, because there are no big languages? In short, the right address should be "university in Cyprus", identical to the University of Maribor, the University of Ljubljana, could be another university in Primorska, then the University will be one in Primorska and so on. And then there would be no complications with regard to translation. Of course Litorale and Primorska, this is not compatible at all, and this decree is completely unacceptable in several respects and is also unworthy of the Slovenian language.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u191	I give my word to Dorian Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must say that I am sad after all I have heard from my colleagues regarding the University of the Sea. The University of Primorska celebrates its first birthday, which was celebrated recently. And I must say that 4,400 undergraduate students, 250 postgraduate students, are proof that the educational research programmes of humanities sciences, management, education sciences, tourism, health care, science and information sciences carried out in these three universities, two higher schools and two research institutes are an important contribution to developing a good vision of high school space. If the whole matter of this decree is reduced only to a term that you misinterpret, it is quite sad. That is why I am expressed here by the fears of those who have worn nationalist robes, the lack of awareness of this institution, of its professors, as well as of the Primors' grief, because they descend to the level of the most condescending right-wing outside the border. Look, it's not just Kopra University, it's the Slovenian University, it's one of three universities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is a university that does not have colleges and its institutions only in Cyprus, it also has them in Izola, it has them in Piran, it also has them in Sežana, it has them in Postojna and elsewhere. The name Primorska was given at the time because it was a great desire to join the political technician in Nova Gorica and the Faculty of the Sea at this coastal university or university in Primorska. The Maritime College has decided not to take this decision once again, but the politician has also made a different decision and has waited for a possible change of legislation. That's not true. It's a pure lie that the polytechnics were unwelcome. That's not true. Those of us dealing with this, we wanted to have a polytechnician at this institution, at the University of the Sea, because this would make the coastal universe complete. Those who do not know why bilingual denominations ask such questions as Comrade Barovic - because they forgot what we explained a year ago when we adopted the decrees and the birth of this university, that the designation in this decree is also necessary for registration in court. If we do not know the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, we are simply asking such shortcomings. We've answered you again, I hope you'll understand. And now about the very name in Italian, "Litorale." The historical society for Primorsko is called "La Societa Storica del Litorale", and I have not heard any controversy about it, not here in Parliament or in the wider space. In order to obtain this designation, the professional services also made sure that there were experts in both historians and geographers; there were seven. Five of them said the name was real, two of them had concerns, but they didn't object. Even in an interview with Dark Darovec, who is not a politician, is a historian, a doctor of history, explained to me where the name "Litorale" comes from - some people like to use and talk about "Krestenland" and so on, they go into history and so on, which in the end is not even "Krestenland", I am not a German speaker myself, so you will probably, or I hope you will forgive. But since Primorska exists, it's always translated into "Litorale". At that time, we accepted that poor compromise that we even put Primorsko in quotes, but for the reason that there was a fear that even this decree would fall. And let me express this further position on whether the coastal university will ever be called the University of Cyprus, or in Isola, or in Piran, or whether it will be the University of Southern Primorska, or whether it will be the Coastal University, or whether it will continue to be the University of the Sea and we will have the University of Gorica perhaps once the University of Gorica, or the University of Northern Primorska - leave it to you, please leave it to the university, leave it to the people who are working with the university who are working in it. At this point, it is the desire and will of those who work in the university who create, who teach, and also of those who study that it is a university in Primorska, because I think that in no way is taking anyone, but it adds more to them, and that the translation, as it is, has grown on the basis of some expert views and we as politicians should simply not go into this, because we are going to make bigger mistakes ourselves than we have done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u193	Replica, Bogdan Barovich, you have two minutes to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you. Dear colleague Dorian, so that we don't get along the wrong way. I was among the first to absolutely support the establishment of the University of Cyprus - I repeat to you because you called me - I was among the first to support it, and I support it today. And I'm sorry if I'm more up to the content of this university than the names and addresses. Yes, I may have forgotten that I can be ignorant in a certain part of knowledge of the constitutional or legislative arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. I admit, at least I know a lot of things. However, I asked the government, the government is the proposer. I have every right to ask why this decision will be, all of you, such and different titles. Once again, it's important to me that the university is. It is important to me that all three universities and the Slovenian National Party, of course, are subject to the same rules of the game, but of course I very much wonder why, once again, tell me that I do not know why such a name and a different and a third and a fourth name is important if the legislation and constitutional arrangements are what it is. Of course, all people have the right to use this language absolutely, especially in bilingual areas. But for me, the content of the decree is important, for the University of Ljubljana, Maribor and Koper, that there will be Slovenian students, as well as Italian and Austrian, that this university will do substantively well again I say, and that only work will be arranged in this university and, of course, all that we want to do with these decrees in two universities is that. And once again, let's not politicize it, let's not politicize it. I don't care what you say, like you said. Maybe it would be right for the university to be in Cyprus, maybe it would be easier because of bilinguality, I don't know. However, it is not fair in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion that this decision differs in three or four articles or in five of the other decisions. Because we want young Slovenians to be there and, of course, others, if they want to, because we have acquired quality knowledge in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u195	The word has Roberto Battelli. He's quitting. Then we exhausted the debate. You don't have a replica, no, there's no replica. But there was still time for discussion. First, I will give my word to the government to try to give the answers to so many repeated questions and to your debate, and then we will take the rest of the time. Dr. Luck Lorber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u196	If you don't mind, I'll try to explain. So why are we changing the decree differently, wider than the universities in Ljubljana and the universities in Maribor? The decree is the legal basis for the registration in the Register of Courts and is important for the operations of universities. And if you allow a few arguments, why did we decide this time to propose to Parliament an amendment to the decree? Certainly there is no dilemma, we are talking about the All-Slovenian University, which has only a seat in Cyprus. The Senate of the University of Primorsk had a discussion, a debate in the university space and agreed to propose to the founder of the amendment and the amendment of the decree. There was also a debate in the local community and the Italian Nationality Commission of the Municipal Council of Koper informed us of its decision. I am a little surprised by this discussion because on 29 January 2003 this National Assembly appointed the names of the University of Primorska and its members in Italian as well. So we are now, by this change of decree, not changing the name in any way, but we have been warned that the existing proposed name, as set out in the current decree, is not appropriate. And in fact, if I may use words, we are correcting the decree because of a more accurate translation or a more appropriate language translation. We have relied on the expert opinions that we have received, we would not repeat, they are accessible. This led us to make a decision to correct already translated names into a more linguistically correct dictatorship. But what's crucial is I'd like to warn you again. We are talking about the University of Primorske, Slovenian University, which has its seat in Cyprus, and therefore, of course, we must quote Article 11 of the Constitution, which says: "The official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian nationalities live, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian." And on the basis of these grounds, we have decided to propose a supplement to this House's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u197	We are now moving on to the debate on the amendment. We have only one amendment to Article 7, which is in the review of the amendments of 12.7. He proposed a group of Members with first-signed Dorian Marshic. You have the word Dorian Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you. I'll be brief. The signatories simply propose that, in accordance with the amendment to be adopted, it should also be laid down that all official documents be aligned with the change in the names in the Italian language in accordance with this Decision one year after the application of this Decision. This is because the university should simply leave the possibility to plan these funds, but in the following year, because no such funds are simply provided for this year and that all student cards valid and all documents valid could still be officially applicable to the change of designation also in Italian translation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u199	Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 7? My friend Mario Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment because there are problems. But in this regard, I would also say that not only are the names of the University of Primorske in Italian, but there are also elementary schools with boards that say "scuola elementare", and nothing happens. When that name appears, it's hello. I'm telling you this because the University of the Sea will also be named in Italian. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u201	Comrade Gasparini [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u202	Well, I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u203	He spoke for Davorin Terchon. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will also support this amendment, because I think that there must be a reasonable deadline for the harmonisation proposed in this amendment. As far as the debate on the name is concerned, I would say so. And the width is like that. I think that if you would listen and listen to us abroad, that the right hand on our side beats with the same drums as on those sides of the border, and then there can also be repulsion that we have on this side of the border even once on that side of the border. I mean, that's the truth. I don't understand your debate at all. If there was a university in Cyprus, it would be just as bilingual. And frankly, you're upset with bilinguality, you're okay with anything else. From the beginning we proposed a university in Primorska, with the ambition that this university will have universities or colleges throughout Primorska. Now, if you don't know what Primorska means at all, I can't help you. But it would be good for you to learn. I wonder why you're not making a hallo, when the University of Ljubljana had a college in bilingual territory and why you didn't feel threatened at the time. I mean, this debate you're having is totally counterproductive and it's not in line with the modern world. After all, I am sure that you want your children to know as many languages as possible and are also Slovenians, and that they better know as many languages as possible, and not only Slovenian. It's just plain tanning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u205	Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 7? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate on the amendment. It's true there's still time left. Who else wants a word? I'll do it exceptionally, even after the amendment, but now, please, I'll write it all down. 11 by 3 minutes. Ivan Mamić. But I'm going to give you a mixed word so you don't just have to do it on one side, just like we wrote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u206	The name as such is not disputed if the university is in Koper or Koper and if there is bilinguality in Italian. Where there's bilingualism, I support that too. Regarding the chronology of how the name came to be in Primorsk, I have said it, and Mr Marsic says it is a lie, it is a very ugly comment, I will never say it to you, Mr Marshič, and when we talked, if the University of Primorsk is in Primorsk, it was also a suggestion that the seat would eventually be in Sežana. And you laughed that this was nonsense, and I don't know what else. Nobody's talking about it today. But practice shows that there will be no college in Nova Gorica, at least for the moment, and I don't know when it will be. Can anyone at the Ministry tell me? Is there anything going to be a college? I don't know. I asked, but there was no spirit or hearing, and no one answered anything that would happen. So I'm saying that the University of Primorsk is, then Nova Goroc should also be represented. Now, if Novi Gorica isn't, or if there's a Postojna or Bovec, I don't know, then we can't talk about the University of Primorsk. And if the university has to be Italian, then let it be in Cyprus. We don't have a problem with that. Don't tell me now. It is only principle and no threat, as the word has been expressed. What a threat, who threatens anyone, please! I have talked about this, and I also reaffirm this once again, and of course I am also against that amendment, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u207	Thank you. Now I'm gonna go a little bit to the other side. He's riding the Evil One.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I think it's very simple. Some who apparently have no historical memory see fears everywhere, see fears that the Italians will take us back to the Italians. Interestingly, though, they do not see any fears that are more tangible, such as on the Austrian side. I've never heard of anything like this. There's a conspiracy here for once. All Primors are, in fact, Italian agents and the like. But it's only about establishing a university. I hope we all agree. Although I'm sad that Nova Gorica didn't make a deal with the coast, she did. She's just gonna get her way, and sooner or later, that's gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u210	Thank you very much. See, we do not oppose or support bilingual bilingualism. However, Primorska is not entirely bilingual. In fact, where are the borders of Primorska within Slovenia? Where's that coming from? Where are you going to spread this bilinguality by naming the University of the Sea? That's what this is about. By introducing the University of Primorsk and by explaining what it means and what it is for one historical term, you are extending the boundaries of the bilinguality of Slovenia's internality. If only the University of Cyprus or the Capistria were to be named, it is quite clear that this is a university that is locally limited to the national mixed area and bilingual area. We would not extend this geographical concept to a quarter of Slovenia. And here's the key problem. I think that such concessions as you have now done, as they do with this decree, this country should not work anywhere if you want us to protect the national interest if you want us to protect the Slovenian language, and if you want that law that we discussed yesterday to have any effect in this Slovenian space. Otherwise, it's just a parade. We are dealing with the name Mercator, whether it will be Slovenian or English, but we are not dealing with whether nationalism will be mixed or bilingually written only where there is bilingual living, or whether it will be on a quarter of Slovenia. I hope that all those who propose this and who advocate it understand what it means to extend regional bilingualism to an area that is significantly beyond a small-scale area. I think we should be extremely careful about such matters in this country. In fact, I am surprised that the chief proponent of this government and that the government is also taking these matters forward instead of very much controlling these matters; after all, it has an external ministry, after all, it has a whole bunch of internal authorities and it simply produces such an act, which ultimately even has legal effect. And when we go to registration with this act, we simply define new language boundaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u211	Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I'll give another word. Look, this is democracy in this House. Primorska is a statistical landscape in the country, Republic of Slovenia, and here she will remain - in the country, Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, tell me one university in Italy that has Slovenian names and Slovenian titles! Tell me! If I don't know, I'll be happy. Thirdly, it's me who calls it the inner Primorska, and the people of Goriski are protesting. They're protesting from Gorisky! Fourthly, we can forget what was happening, but I know what was happening last year - that we all wanted this university to be classified somewhere, to be Slovenian, without having already dealt with the content of what it would be called and in what language. Since it is in Slovenia, it is Slovenian. Fifthly, not to us, dear colleagues, to report political options, left or right, and to compare with Italians. Sorry, the Slovenian National Party has always been, although this is strange against all others, left, and this will also remain. And don't tell us! In Slovenia we use Slovenian language and recognise rights to minorities, always and everywhere. And not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, but where is our pride?Oh, my God! What happened between 1994 and 1996 was that Slovenia should have become a candidate for entry into the European Union at all! In bilateral relations, to whom did this Slovenia kneel and do everything to whom?Oh, my God! With all due respect, powerful Italians who have their will. It's the right thing to do. Let's have it, Slovenians!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u213	Comrade Battelli, I didn't hear your name before so we could have a replica. If I overheard you, I'm sorry, but I didn't hear you. No, no, no. Please, please, please, please, please, We'll proceed. Comrade Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. So, I think my colleague can get a word now because I'm going to read one text and he's named there. First, I would like to say that, until now, I have never been able to argue with bilingualism and with the rights of any minority that they do not have the right to their own language. I never said that, so don't tell me I have anything against bilinguality. Secondly, I'm going to read one of the texts that was published on Saturday, and I didn't write it, but it was written by a famous journalist, and then I can tell you who. But it applies to both, and to the university itself, and to the amendment. "The University of Cyprus has no luck nor with Minister Gabr, or even with his name. First it was intended to be called the University of Primorsk, "Universitû de la Primorska", and then the Italian minority resisted, if, Primorska is not translated into Italian." And the journalist writes: "Of course it's not translated, because also Toscana and Calabria, where they served my father's army, and 1,000 others are not translated into Slovenian. But Roberto Battelli and the company have firmly decided to recover their tax and so the institution is supposed to be named the Coastal University not Primorsko - Universita del Litorale. But the coastal university can be anywhere from Los Angeles to the Azurna coast, and Primorska is a historical geographical political and symbolic term that should not be abandoned. Whoever abolishes Primorsko also abolishes the Slovenian being. Some sort of rescue straw was offered by Dr. Dragan Marusic, who was supposed to be named after Lucky Kosovel. It seems a good idea, although many have immediately questioned it, there will undoubtedly be a critical Italian community. How Happy Kosovo to Rename Italian, Fortunato Falce and then be satisfied with the Universe del Fortunato Falce." I didn't write it, it was published and I read it. Now I have just enough time to read the conclusion of this article: "Contracting with Scandinavians who have a political culture, and in the Balkans we need to understand all kinds of tricks and plots, because each country has one thing or another as a regional force. And in such circumstances, you immediately appear weak if you are ready to turn your identity on your head. Let's say the University of Primorske to the Coastal University or even the University del Fortunato Falce." I'm sorry if that's a rough text, but I didn't write it, I just read it. However, it has been officially published and so far no one has protested against such a text. It was written by Boris Jez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I will judge when it is a replica, when it is not, and now I will give you just the word for discussion, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u216	That's incorrect, but good. I wanted to explain to my colleague Jozet Tank that in different languages, they have different names or names in different languages. Thus, in the Slovenian language Italy speaks the same language as in the Italian language, but it is written differently and is also spoken differently. There are official documents in Italy where the name Italy is written in Slovenian. This probably does not mean that, given that there is a Slovenian name of Italy in Italy on some state document, that because it exists, then in the next phase Slovenia, together with Russians or Americans or with both, will jointly occupy Italy, or yes, perhaps. In short, languages are different and people call in their language what exists, in this is the whole story. The coastal language is translated into Italian by Litorale and that is all. While what is written by the esteemed Lord Jez, who knows me well and who we know from childhood, was also my neighbor, and so on, however, what he writes of course does not contain the logic that Jez is capable of, just read carefully what he writes. First of all, it's not true that I asked for anything, I didn't ask for anything. I suggested then only in view of the scribble that came out, that the amendment that changed "Primorska" between the indications in "Litorale". Go to the most prestigious portals, Google, Yahoo, I don't know what you respect most, those that are world-famous and type in literature and you'll see what you get out. You will get out official documents translated into Italian for example from the Institute for Recent History, where Primorska is translated into Litorale because there is no other way. While the Coast is Costa, Costiero, the coastal SZDL was once the ASPL Costiera, you see, coastal region, regions of costiera. And there's no other name than Litorale for Primorska. Besides, I mean, it's complicated in Slovenian anyway, if you want, because the dictionary of the Slovenian book language does not have Primorska in it. The dictionary of the Slovenian language does not have Primorska, there is only an adjective. My people, look at the books, what you're also upset with the facts now, or what.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u217	Time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u218	The dictionary of the Slovenian book language does not have the term Primorska in it, except as an adjective.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u219	Franz Lenko. I have previously described those who have volunteered for an additional debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. When I listen to this debate, I find that, in fact, all of us from the mainland part of Slovenia or even from the eastern part of Slovenia, we want to teach the Primors what they need to name their university. I think that the Primors have shown their pride in the past history and that they are also holding this pride, and today all three of the Moorish Members have debated and I believe them, and I think that all this debate is unnecessary, because, as I said before, they know how to look after their pride and I think they will also keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this decision was of great importance when it was taken, if it was already a decision for Primorsko, then it must certainly have been in the notes for Primorsko, because it does not translate, as we do not translate it all the time. And I don't allow myself to be translated by the Giovannis, I don't know what else I am. I'm Janez Petty Officer, and so it is with that name. Since there is no official Italian translation of Primorska, but of course it is for Koper, Capodistria In this case it is translated. And, of course, it would be better if we could arrange the University of Cyprus. Since this National Assembly, I do not know what arguments it has made for the University of Primorsk, then it is located there in terms of bilinguality. It was mentioned here that the Italians will not take anything from us. They're really not gonna take anything from us, but we're gonna do it with our stupidity to spend it. If we lose any culture or language within the EU, it will not be because of the imposition of others, but because of our own negligence. That's what we need. It's interesting at this earthquake when they ask one across the border where the earthquake occurred, she says in Yugoslavia. It's just a name, we live Slovenians in Yugoslavia. When I was in Trieste on Saturday, I didn't see any sign of bilinguals. We have established a bilingual standard, but where there is official bilinguality and where there is an official two terms, we also use the Italian term for word names. But if we don't have a translation, then he has to stay the way he is. Names don't translate. I do not agree with such flossules, or writing labels that we want to enforce ethnocentrism here in the opposition. We know, it's a stiletto. Slovenian language in the whole area without any minority language. This is actually water on the mill something else to become a Slovenian minority language. That's it. But I strongly resist it and do not allow it. That bilinguality, if it was established with the Constitution, only to that extent and nothing more. In the case of the region, too, there was an experiment. Yes, a region where there is a bilingual congregation to then extend to the whole region. No! No! He won't! Because there's no bilinguality based on the constitution. Unless there is an institution in that place where the congregation is bilingual or bilingual. Only in the one and not in the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you. Dorian Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thanks again. Some argue that we are using the name of this University of Primorska because it is a university based in Koper. I must say that the one who quoted Mr Pelhan is sorry that this is the position of the party or the secular group, which is the position of the Forum for Goriška, but let us also identify ourselves with everything else that explains the Forum for Goriška. The University of Primorska will also be able to establish universities in Gorica, it will be able to establish a university in Postojna, which means that this concept is not bad in any way. Mr Jež said in that article that Tuscany and Calabria are not being translated, but Furlanija Juliana is being translated, meaning that we are doing this. Furlania Julian landscape we translate. So, from the name of Friuli Venezia Giulia, I've never heard anyone stumble in particular. And that this is what it is now that we have to register if we register this in the Court of Justice in Cyprus in such a way that it is written in the decree also in the translation into Italian. If we do not wish to do so, then it is necessary to change the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia into other provisions governing it. But if you're worried about the reputation on the coast, let me comfort your colleagues, so don't worry. I went to elementary school for eight years, and from the first grade of elementary school to the eighth grade of elementary school, I had a compulsory subject in Italian. I say, I hope that, relatively good Slovenian, but I also speak very good Italian, which is why I am no less Slovenian than I am.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u225	Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I am aware that the university, which has its seat in Cyprus, must have a bilingual title, I do not oppose this, but the translation of the historical geographical concept in Primorska with part of Litorale has very important and very far-reaching political implications. An important political symbolism that is well aware of those who take it from behind. This means taking an indirect stand for the Rapal border, and this is denying national interests, not to say any more difficult words that would otherwise be more correct. There's got to be some historical memory here. Mr. Evil, if you don't have him, you get him at your father's, and I think he's got him. In particular, the LDS argument put forward by Mr Beumann here is unacceptable, but it is the University of Primorska, which is mixed by nationality, Primorska. Such reasoning, I think, is unsustainable for the Primors and that the biggest party in this way argues this and does not want to learn the error made by the Slovenian Corps, but anyone can exist to be a nationalist or whatever, but for these things I have to take up and here the historical memory has also made the city. I understand that this is what those who demonstrated in Ljubljana years ago under the title "When I Will Be a Great Customs Officer in Black Kal" are taking up. Those who advocate the Rapal border today and here, of course, do not care, most Slovenians may not care. Let us be precise, let us have the bilingual title of this university, but this term is unacceptable, because it bears, once again, strong political implications. And Mr Battelli knows what he represented in Rome, who can negotiate for images from the minority monastery in Piran - only the Vatican and the Italian Republic. He had already ruled out Slovenia. And agreeing to such thesis, to such a manslaughter, is unacceptable. If we're talking about Slovenian University, then we need to be aware [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I'm not lying, sir. Last time you admitted that you were making a provocation, now you're saying I'm lying. There were ten witnesses around, and we know what you were saying. So, fellow Members, I urge you not to take this decision today. It has too much political consequences and implications. We Slovenians, however, are a small country with limited resources and limited opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u227	Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u228	I don't know if we're serious or joking. When I listen to my colleague Jerovšek and my colleague Drobnič, who is teaching me about Italian, of course I no longer know where I am. Look, believe me, I will teach you the correct Italian; I offer you a few hours of free language teaching. Little fella, I'm sure you'll get some knowledge, I assure you. Look, I studied in Italian, I worked in Italian, I got a certificate for phonetics on the RAI, for reading journals, so I have knowledge and I'll give you a few classes for free. Listen, I understand that some people get smallpox when they hear the Italian word. By May 1st, I was hoping it wouldn't happen again. But I can see that these measles are repeating themselves today. Some very important explanations: bilinguality in Primorska does not spread, bilinguality remains where it is, not for a meter longer. The translation is valid, as we have heard, for registration, because the head office of the University of Primorska is in the bilingual area. When a university opens in Sežana or Nova Gorica or Stanjel tomorrow, there will be no Italian translation there, only the Slovenian name. And from this title, there's no reason to fear the spread of bilingualism, if you're so afraid of it. But please, when deciding what is right and what is wrong in Italian, let those who work in Italian and not least in the profession have the right thing to do. Government representatives have told you that the expertise was necessary for what we have already proposed last year as perfectly correct. "Litorale" is a translation that has been in force for 50 years, not some new concept for this decree. It is a simple translation for a region called Litorale in Italian, regardless of the historical significance of Primorska as such. And if you don't believe me, look, there's someone else to teach, but that's the way it is, and it can't be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u229	Now I'll give you my word. Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u230	Mr. Chairman! We should warn my forerunner, Mr Yuri, who was protecting national animosity when he said that some of them would get smallpox when we hear Italian. That's insulting and he can't handle it. I've made my own commitment to bilinguality, where it's defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u231	This is not procedural, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u232	Where it's defined. And on such occasions, you must react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u233	I should have warned you a lot of times, but you won't let me tell you. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted a decree on the University of Primorska, we heard one of the fundamental arguments that it was essentially a defender of the Slovenian border with Italy. Today, some say that this university is what it is and by renaming the destroyer exactly what we adopted by consensus at the time. I think it's a big, big con. We are talking about the name of a public institution based in Cyprus, as the secretary said, and we were talking about the Primorska geographical concept when we were three hours on the committee and here in the National Assembly. That it was a geographical name, and we did not know whether it existed in the book language for the name as the province of Primorska, also the Italian term Litorale. It is said to me that this is the case and I am proud that people abroad, Italian citizens, also Slovenian citizens, are holding up the Slovenian language to translate our words, that is to say, into Italian and, at the same time, recognise this piece of our country as one whole. It should be said that all these changes would fall away if respected colleagues were more visible in Primorsk, even as regards national objectives, if they were to join forces rather than bayonets on the one hand, the Novogorians and, on the other hand, the people from Kopersk stood. And it is even more unusual that an excellent member of the United List, Mr Pelhan, writes such letters to set these very things on fire, which I think are parties such as the United List and also like the LDS, have the view that these rights must be respected and that they must be shared somehow. If they were to unite and be in Stanjel or in Sežana this thing is the real seat of the university, then they wouldn't have come anywhere. And I have to say, listen, sooner or later we're going to have to get to three provinces, and we're going to have three universities like this. And sooner or later, the University of Primorsk will have to realize that the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana will not only establish the seat of the new higher education institution in Postojna, and that in Primorsk not only Nova Gorica and Koper, but also places such as Bovec, Illyrian Bistrica, are forgotten from God. And this Primors, I strongly recommend you unite your forces once and try to step together and wake this university to life. However, if this decree were rejected today, it would mean that only the newborn child we have founded would be headheaded because we would not have any extensions to be able to go together as the other two universities would be able to re-engineer their processes. Well, I'll support this decision anyway. And I say that I am proud that even on that side of the border they are somehow trying to introduce in their book language, translate our expressions from the Slovenian language.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u235	Thank you very much. He wants a government representative with the same right to say. Please. No, no, no. I think those four minutes are all that's left. I'll do what I've done so far. The extra time, I wrote down all the names, I gave my word to everyone. Thank you very much for closing the debate. At 9.45 a.m., we will decide on the proposal for an amendment and a decree in accordance with the meeting's timetable. That's why I'm closing the debate. I'm breaking the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u236	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, ladies ministers and other representatives of the government. We will move to the vote after today's debates to individual agenda items. Please calm down. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're moving to the vote. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the reduced procedure, the third consideration. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to make an application for amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We will therefore vote on the bill. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We'll re-vote. I asked you earlier to review the voting devices. You want a repeat, Comrade Diaci? He raised his hand in time, that's what I saw. Let's move on. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the 15th item of the agenda, which is, on the proposal of the law on the abolition of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation of enterprises, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Nor did the mother labour body accept the amendments to this law, because they were not tabled, so it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. I also inform you here that the government or the legislature have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent, so I am moving on to a legislative decision. Word for explanation of voice, mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this law on the abolition of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Revision of Property Transformation. This is another stage in how to cover or cover transitional abuses or damage to state and social property. About two months ago, this National Assembly, of course at the coalition vote, shut down the Slovenian Development Society and set up a new society to cover its tracks. This time, the Agency, which has prepared very good documentation to prosecute those who have illegally acquired or acquired property, shall be terminated. Of course, the official authorities did not do what was necessary. Therefore, there is no need to terminate the Agency; until the procedures are completed, this agency could continue to operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u238	We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 38 votes against 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the report of the Constitutional Commission on the basis of Rule 180 of the Rules of Procedure. We move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia [[EPA 702 / III]] It's over." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 18th item of the agenda - to the consideration of the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development of Slovenian Armed Forces equipment. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a resolution decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We decide on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission - of the Security Services. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended Rules of Procedure, we are coming to a decision on the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the Rules of Procedure would be inconsistent, so we will vote on it. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the rules of procedure. There are 59 of us present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. This concludes the agenda. Continue with the 20th item of the agenda. I ask you for a little more attention so that you know what we are going to vote on. Having regard to the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2004 and 2005. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a full decision on the decision. In doing so, I inform you that I have not been informed by the government or by the legislature that the decision would be inconsistent. We will therefore vote on it. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 45 votes against 10. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal from the arch on amendments and additions to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the decision would be inconsistent. That's why we're gonna decide about him. May I have your attention, please? I'm calling off the vote. An explanation for Marko Diaca's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I will vote against these changes for a simple reason, because I believe that the university is intended for students, and only one student from 9 members sits on the university's board of directors. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u240	Can we get to the vote now? We vote on the motion for a ruling. There are 61 of us present, 50, 6 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. In doing so, I inform you that I have not been informed by the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service that the decision would be inconsistent, so we will vote on the motion for a decree. We are voting on the decree of the University of Maribor. There are 60 of us present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 23rd item of the agenda - this is by considering the draft decree... Are we going to have five, six debates in the hall or are we going to follow? Please! I'll let you talk, and then we'll move on. Can we move on? We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Primorska. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Dorian Marshic. We're voting on the amendment. Explanation of voice. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u241	This has nothing to do with naming and all that. I will vote in favour of this amendment, but I would like to be interpreted in a way that, when there is a change in indices or other documents that could be used through bicycles or something else to burden students, it will be understood that these indices and other documents that have been issued so far are valid until the expiry date, so to speak. So that the current generation will not have to buy again, if I say so, these documents, but new documents will be prepared and issued within one year to the next generations so that students will not be needlessly burdened, both through bureaucratic procedures and cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u242	I think the amendment proposal is clear enough for us to decide on it now. We vote on the amendment to Article 7 of the proposed decree. There are 61 of us present, 37 votes against 20. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 20.]] The amendment was accepted. And now we can make a full decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the decision would be inconsistent. That is why we will decide the whole decision. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 40 votes against 17. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We have therefore carried out this set of votes. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTIVITY LAW, A SHORT PROCEDURE. I'll give the word to my colleague Irma to lead the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u243	So we're going to move on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTIVITY LEVEL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Tsukati. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! There are several professions in health that have long wanted to organise their organisation within the meaning of the Chamber and offer to the State the exercise of public powers which, of course, the State may grant to the relevant organisation of the profession. It's about professional supervision, it's about leadership. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u245	Mr. Cuckoo, just a moment. Dear Members and Members, I pray for peace in the Chamber, it is very difficult to speak at such a noise. Please, for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u246	It is a matter of regulating a series of things which the State as an administrative and bureaucrat organised government cannot regulate and are, in accordance with the European principle of subsidiarity, appropriate mechanisms that professions themselves can handle for these matters. So far, the work of the Chambers, both pharmaceutical and medical, has shown that such a way of regulating the situation within the profession is appropriate, good and affordable for the country. For a long time, these professions have been trying and looking to get an appropriate organisation in the legislation and now we have before us a proposal that is slightly different from the original proposal. In fact, the original proposal suggested that the organisation of the chamber should be organised only for those professions that are Europeanly regulated, defined, defined and that is, in health care, of course, in addition to pharmacists and doctors, the nurses who have graduated from care and, at the initiative of the Ministry, this scope of the possibility of setting up chambers has also been extended to other professions, which we certainly welcome, and of course there is some complication or question which we will explain further. The original proposal was designed, in accordance with the original views of the Constitutional Court, to grant powers by law. However, in the current proposal submitted by the Ministry, the definition or establishment of a chamber is not determined by law, but is left to the discretion of the Ministry. This can, however, trigger complications in the possible constitutional assessment and, as a result, an amendment is proposed that lays down the law for those professions that will be newly charged with keeping the register and with licences and that the law also provides for the granting of public powers in these professions. As I said, the debate on these issues is likely to develop further, as we have two amendments to the draft law that are being excluded. If one is accepted, the second amendment will become irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy and disabled persons as the working body of the mother. I invite Mr Brenčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the government with the Minister in charge, all of you, colleagues and fellow Members. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons re-examined the bill at its 43rd meeting, on 2.7. On the basis of the decision of the National Assembly, which was adopted at its 37th regular session, the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons should reconsider the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act, which it considered after I said at its 43rd meeting again. At its 42nd regular session, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the State Council Committee on Social Activities. However, the following amendments were tabled at the 43rd regular meeting within a time limit set by qualified applicants. Amendments by the Government to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 are thus replaced by amendments. And amendments to these amendments are made by fellow Member Merl to Articles 3 and 7. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, however, forwarded to the Committee, as working material, the amendments to the Government's amendments to Articles 3, 6, 7, which the Committee did not take. On the basis of a shorter debate, as a broader debate was held on the first attempt to draft this Law for plenary decision, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Amendments to these amendments to Articles 3 and 7 tabled by Mr Merl. On the basis of a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee has also drafted and adopted amendments to the Government's amendments to Articles 7 and 8. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons also adopted a decision after the hearing, calling on the President of the National Assembly to place the proposal of this Act at the 38th meeting of the State Assembly, the last meeting of this mandate. With that, if we're lucky, we'll get this law under the roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does the government want a word? Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u250	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a law that will adequately save the 12-year efforts of individual health professions, with the exception of a medical profession, whose problem we settled 12 years ago, namely, that other professions get their greater autonomy, their greater incentives by the state for self-organization, decision-making on their professional and different fates. This is an area where the State decides to grant public powers to individual professional groups, professional associations for two basic purposes; because these professional groups can exercise certain powers better than the State itself and because they can also exercise them more effectively and, if you want, cheaper. In this 12-year effort, I will mention the time of our term of office. As early as 2001, amendments to the Health Act had regulated this area, but because of the dissatisfaction of the two professional groups expressed before the Constitutional Court, this area of authorisation had been suspended, frozen until 2003. In December, a decision by a Constitutional Court, which did not find unconstitutionality in the decision of the Health Act, established grounds for supplementing that law, since the Constitutional Court ordered that the law should be supplemented at three points. In order to ensure that the law, rather than the sub-legislative acts, must write down the conditions to be met by the Chambers in order to be able to run for public office, that the award procedure should be established by law if it is to run for office, and that the law should also determine which tasks are performed under these public powers. These details are the content of this law or amendments to the law before you. After effective discussions with expert groups, professional groups, which have also contributed their views and opinions, we have come up with a solution that is fully, we are confident, appropriate to all professional groups and represents a contribution that allows for their good cooperation immediately after the adoption of the law. Let me mention that the law also entails keeping registers and issuing licences for those professions where, subject to the principle of prudence, responsibility for the decision in the treatment process and the level of education, it is necessary to decide that this condition is mandatory. Allow me to say that, when I express my satisfaction, although at the same time some kind of regret that this process has lasted so long, the financial consequences of this law will not be severe. The financial implications in the coming year, estimated at 17 million, would in any event also be costs if the Ministry merely carried out these tasks. Thus, we believe that the financial consequences are not such that they could have any effect on the decision to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have already completed and amended the Health Act several times in our mandate. This is logical, as the health problems of the population are also changing, for example, the population is ageing. Changes are also in the health policy and structure of the healthcare system, transition from pure public health to combined public and private health. It is also very fast to develop medical science, changing certain doctrines and technologies. The conditions of work in health care, as well as in the health care segment, are also changing. With this amendment of the law, we now want to regulate that segment of health care that has not been regulated so far as the actual state and needs of health care and nursing care require. We welcome this legal novelty in the Nova Slovenija Group. Finally, we will regulate this segment of health care and resolve the accumulated problem in this area. This legal arrangement will certainly benefit users of healthcare and nursing services. Users will be able to choose between operators and the quality of health services will be ensured. These health workers will obtain a licence for their activities, and they will also be professionally qualified to ensure professionalism. On the other hand, there will be emphasis on the development of the profession. However, this legal change should also bring recognition of the expertise, identity and true social situation that they deserve. The New Slovenia Group will support the legislative proposal. It will also support the amendment, which may also improve this legal matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello, Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act, following a reduced procedure. The present law has been sent to the procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed Member of Cukjati, although, as stated in the short-term accompanying text, it has identified the need to regulate certain parts and segments of health activities that have not been sufficiently clearly regulated but relate to a rather sensitive area of the allocation of public powers. The granting of public powers is a novelty in our legislation and a novelty in the field of carrying out a type of activity and not just health. Similar dilemmas have also arisen and opened up in other areas and not only in health activities. We have some practice in other areas, such as social, cultural, sport and research activities. We can see that the present bill fully takes into account the Constitutional Court's judgment on the granting of public powers. Specific tasks may be carried out as public powers, conditions to be met by the Chambers or associations, societies and candidates for the award of public powers and the procedure by which public powers are granted. This will achieve equal treatment of all professions in health care and take into account the position of the Constitutional Court in order to confer such public powers on the basis of law. The amendment to Article 3 of the LDS Group will be supported. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that this is only one of the steps in a series that will still need to be moved, that this complex area is clearly and undoubtedly defined in a legal norm. A number of sub-legislative acts are expected to begin to be produced by the Ministry and the professional services. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we ask where the reasons for this delay are. Surely we do not see this reason in the inaction of civil society. On the contrary, this one is very active. Among them, let me list the most active: the Chamber of Health Care of Slovenia, the Society of Physiotherapeuticians of Slovenia, the Society of Physiotherapeutics, the Chamber of Physiotherapeuticians, the Chamber of Laborists and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The main objectives of the amendment of the law, the co-signatory of which is also a member of the SNS and is before us, are: to ensure health and quality of life, which are the primary objectives of social and economic development. Health care providers make a huge contribution to these objectives as they form the largest group of health workers, which often represent the first contact with the healthcare system for the population. The role of healthcare provider and grandmother care provider is also constantly changing, and the demands and needs of the population for integrated and quality treatment are also increasing. The content ahead of us wants to regulate health care and nursing activities that make an important contribution to the health of the population. Mr. Wolf! Madam President, please! According to the proponents, whom we also agree with in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the legal regime will also be in favour of citizens, users of healthcare and nursing services, and therefore there are more reasons for its adoption. We will not oppose the amendment in the parliamentary group. However, it should be pointed out that this area could already be regulated if the ruling coalition did not take a vehement view of the maximum number of health workers when adopting previous changes and supplementing them. At the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, we took over some of the additions to the Slovenian Health Care Chamber, the Associations of Nurses and Medical Technicians of Slovenia, which were not supported by the Home Committee as their amendments. The supplements relate to the professional supervision granted to the Slovenian Medical Chamber, which, in addition to the supervision, is to advise on the implementation of the work in healthcare and midwifery, on the appropriate registration of these workers and the conduct of this register. At this same meeting, the coalition did not want to regulate the areas of nurses and midwifery. This is the only area where the health sector has not yet been regulated. Therefore, in the SNS Group, we welcome the proposal for a novel, which also means the completion of 12-year efforts to regulate health care and finally the possibility of obtaining public powers in the Slovenian Health Care Houses. And if the proposed content agrees with the association of associations of nurses and health technicians of Slovenia, it is said by the profession, it is right that we agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u258	Thanks again for saying that. Whoever accompanied health care in this mandate must have noticed how many amendments were tabled and also the Systemic Act on Health Activities two years ago; and each time the National Assembly rejected all these initiatives. All the amendments and the system law we tabled were based on the first decision of the 1997 Constitutional Court, where it is said that the chamber is established by law. It is said that the law tells which profession is organized in the chamber and that the law says that this and this chamber will have such and such powers. All proposals and all these attempts have been rejected. Seems like a shame to us. Let me also mention the decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999. In fact, there was an attempt earlier, namely: the pressure of various professions to organise their chambers, the legislator in previous mandates tried to eliminate or resolve them in such a way as to say, yes, the minister will appoint, will make a call, will grant a society that has at least 50% of its members the status of the chamber, and if he wants to, he will also give the mandate. Thus, in the previous term, the Constitutional Court stated: "The Health Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, as long as there is no procedure and criteria for their establishment for the Chambers established pursuant to Article 87." Further: "Since the law provided for the existence of medical workers' chambers with legal personality, but did not lay down procedures and criteria for their establishment, it is contrary to the principles of the rule of law." Then we got Article 87. And 87.a. said: "A single professional chamber or professional association may be authorised by the Minister responsible for health care to carry out individual tasks if it fulfils certain conditions." However, look at it, once again, the Constitutional Court sat down on this issue, and last December, it adopted the following decision, in which it stated: "The second principle is that the law must" - a specific law on health care - " specify the conditions to be fulfilled by the holder of public powers" and so on. [[...]] However, this law, which I quoted earlier, leaves some questions unresolved or unclear. It is therefore not possible to determine whether the granting of public authority is left to the discretion of the Minister responsible for health. The Health Act provides that the Minister may grant public authority and thus further clarify the Constitutional Court that it is wrong not to be so. And it said to whom to give, to what profession and so on, and it concluded: "For these reasons, provision 87a of the Health Act is incompatible with the Constitution and is therefore repealed." And, of course, if we look at the government's opinion on the first reading of this law, it was said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had rejected the proposal on the basis of these opinions of the Constitutional Court. And now the government has proposed a text that repeats almost literally Article 87a, in a government proposal and also in a few - in small things - the amended amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy to the National Assembly, once again by the Minister of State, by his own discretion, if they meet certain conditions, may or may not grant public powers. And, of course, even more. The Minister himself shall determine which profession he or she will grant or will not grant public powers and which profession he or she will not or will not allow the establishment of a chamber. I don't think it's the same as it was years ago in the previous terms of "figa in the pocket" if we're going to make a deal with the press. I believe that if the Minister is to hold the next term - although we hope not, but if the next term - the Minister is to say that he and this profession will be able to organise a chamber and we will grant public powers, but if this comes before the Constitutional Court again, I doubt that it will decide differently than it did last December. That is why we have tried to correct this lack of government proposal in our parliamentary group. That is to say that at least the professions are named by law, the professions to which the law imposes a great burden-register and the granting of licences to be extended for seven years - and that this cannot be so - according to our opinion can not be left to the Minister to decide whether or not to decide. One day, the minister will decide in one term to give health care to grandparents, the other in four years he will take away this opportunity for physiotherapists and the like. I believe that this is an inappropriate approach and we support the opinion already expressed several times before the Constitutional Court that this is such an important subject that it must be defined in law. And that is why we have proposed an amendment, which I hope you will support for this very reason. In order to determine which professions are subject to the burden of registering and granting extension licences and this profession, let us leave this "may", but these professions can be granted public authority precisely because they have such an additional burden, a new burden that is stated. There are some arguments that these professions cannot be changed, new professions, new educational directions and the like are coming. I believe that the Health Act must undergo ventilation and corrections every ten years. And there is also no problem in changing the law three times a year, as we have experienced in this mandate. And if a new profession emerges, it will not appear tomorrow, but it will appear in the course of a few years and it will then be possible to complete, but here the bit legal gap can be filled if we accept our amendment, where we do not leave the minister to determine the professions that belong to this category, but to indicate them as mentioned in the amendment. This would take a slightly more serious approach to the question of the establishment of chambers and public powers for these chambers, and show a little more real will in politics. That is why I propose and call for our amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stana Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u260	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. In March this year, a group of first-signed Members, France Tsukati, submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act. The main reason for supplementing the current law is that, in the last amendment of the law, the legislator did not take into account the opinions and suggestions of the profession. It was clear in the second reading of the home labour body that the proposal for a law had several shortcomings. The opinion of most of our Members was also accompanied by a rejection of the government's position and a negative opinion of the parliamentary legislative and legal service, which considered that the proposal for a law was a systemicly inconsistent legislative and legal service, systematically decommissioned the law, which led to the opinion that the proposal for a law was not an example for further consideration. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2003, the law should specify the conditions to be met by the holder of the public authority, determine the authority which grants the public authority or designates one or more holders of the public authority, and lay down the procedure for the award of the public authority and the tasks performed under the public authority. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which also pointed out at the meeting that the proposal for a law was systematically and nominally inadequate and that other provisions should also be adapted, and on the basis of the opinion of the Government which opposed the bill, a proposal was made by the three-party government coalition to decide first on the proposal for a decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration, but that the decision was not adopted. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it was decided that the proposal for a law should be returned to the re-examination of the labour force. The Government has reconsidered the proposal for a law and adopted amendments that fully comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment on the granting of public powers. The government's proposed amendments thus set out the tasks that can be performed by the Chambers, such as public powers, the conditions that they wish to fulfil, or associations that run for the award of public powers, and the procedure by which public powers are granted. This will achieve equal treatment of all professions in healthcare and take into account the position of the Constitutional Court so that public powers can also be granted on the basis of law. In preparing the amendments to the bill, the government cooperated with chambers and societies and reached a high level of consensus. The amendments drawn up by the Government follow the principles already laid down in 2001, in particular the principle that public powers are granted on the basis of law. Both the legislative and legal services of the Government and the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly were coordinated by the amendments. The amendments cover the entire field of health care, including those not covered so far. Each professional group may be given a public mandate, the field of specialisation is governed; legal persons may also be associated in the Chamber, the procedure and conditions for the award of public authority may be defined more precisely, the withdrawal or restriction of the authorisation may be possible. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we also had a working meeting with a representative of health workers and their opinion was that a satisfactory consensus was reached. The representative of the Laboratory Medicine Chamber also expressed satisfaction on the Committee of the Mother Labour Body that we have reached a number of years of meetings and coordination with the text of a law that is in fact harmonised. For the second reading of the law at the meeting of the National Assembly, our Group has already tabled an amendment to Article 3, which takes into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and sets out in more detail the criteria under which a list of professions or areas for which a licence and register is required will be drawn up. We believe that the regulation in this amendment is appropriate, since the introduction of individual professions could soon lead to ambiguity of the law or discrimination of certain professions, as the Slovenian Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine also points out. We believe that the law before us, with the amendment, is well-prepared and suitable for adoption, so we will support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, with the proposal of this law, we want the first-signed colleague of Cukjati - in addition to three out of five with the European Directive on regulated professions in health care - to regulate the profession self-regulation and subsidiary decision in relation to state authorities, to also regulate the healthcare sector, including a graduate midwife or midwife. [[...]] This issue, or the establishment of a congregational organisation of key professions in the health care system, has wanted and tried to solve many times. However, the policy of the Ministry of Health, despite a number of arguments by the individual medical profession, as well as the Parliamentary Committee on Health and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, was not in favour. It is therefore quite understandable that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal of this law was so strongly rejected, and the current government coalition, unfortunately worth medical treatment, did not do so when considering the draft law on the home committee when it first tried to draft the law on plenary decision-making. However, it is good that this time the proximity of the elections has sobered the current government coalition with the Chief Minister of Health, who has finally seen that the multi-annual efforts and arguments supported by the demands of the Medical Chamber, associations of nurses and health technicians, as well as the efforts of other professions in the health system, such as physiotherapists and laboratory medicine, and, last but not least, the efforts of many members of the National Assembly after the assembly are justified and meaningful. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, despite the fact that we are co-proposers of this law, we are truly pleased that, after all, with the re-examination of the law on the Home Committee, this is the Health Committee, both by the efforts of the Ministry of Health and by the efforts of those most directly and directly concerned, and these are many health professions, with the coordinated amendments proposed by the Government, the initial proposal of the Law has been substantively finalized so that the Chambers of the remaining key professions in health can also be established on this basis and that they can actually operate in terms of subsidiarity and self-regulation. In the parliamentary group, we will be happy to support the proposal for a law. At the same time, we would like to see more cases like this in the practice of parliamentary decision-making, because it would be good for the content and purpose of a particular proposal to take precedence over the name of the proposer. However, we are still not quite at the heart of the two amendments that have been tabled to Article 3, which is the amendment of the ministry or the Liberal Democracy Group and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, as was already the case for me on the Committee, the Ministry's explanation was a little closer, because at this point, as represented by the Ministry, it is possible to grant public powers or to establish a chamber by law in other professions not regulated by the European Directive. However, I believe that the Minister is credible in his explanations and, if he wants to create a slightly more positive climate in the health system, he will also, in practice, follow what he wants to establish with the amendment to Article 3. We will, of course, support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We have heard the position of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. This is for discussion on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. The debate will be held on the basis of a new review of the amendments tabled on 12.7.2004, bearing the title New Text. As has already been seen in the discussions, two amendments have been tabled in Article 3. Below one, we have an amendment from the LDS Club with the remark that, if this amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant and under order number 2, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group is an amendment. I am opening a debate on Article 3 and both amendments and asking who wants the word. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We have two amendments to Article 3, one we have tabled and I will support, and the other the SDS has tabled. The difference between one and the other is quite simple. SDS proposes a closed list; like when you go to elections, you have a closed list, five candidates and a dot. And we're proposing an open list. That is to say, all medical professions can, all those who are today, and those who will be able to establish a chamber tomorrow with public authority. However, if we accept the other amendments, the SDS, we cannot do so, but only for those professions that are listed in the law. So I think this difference is obvious, and that's why I'm not going to support this other amendment, but the LDS amendment, because it allows it to then extend to other professions that are not listed here in the second amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Allow me, with the support of the LDS Group's amendment, to say otherwise a fundamental dilemma when we are always discussing chambers in this National Assembly. It is two concepts or two principles: one is freedom of association, which must allow these citizens to unify and change their forms of association. It is therefore possible that we will have different chambers in the future. That some chambers or other professional associations would be shut down, others would appear to be disuniting and that in itself it was no longer meaningful, and that was the concept that we advocated for the names of the chambers to come into law, because this would give them an eternal opportunity to act in a particular area. They're basically getting a binoculars card. Let me put it another way. Another issue, or other topic, is the granting of public powers. The holders of public authority, among other things, are all of us, we are at the polls for four years. The granting of public powers to other para-national institutions in this case to the Chambers, and this by law, would mean that we have excluded part of the public powers for eternity from the possibility that citizens may change these public powers in elections. We have already resolved this decision differently in the past. I am confident that in the future we will have to adopt a law on chambers and a law on public powers. At the moment, we do not have this, but we believe that this law, with its amendments, adequately resolves, allows for this elasticity and also allows for the democratic decision-making of citizens when deciding on the holders of public powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. The world won't collapse if we take another issue with a drawback. I'll admit it. We are used to all these many shortcomings, but health legislation is constantly changing, complementing, amending, supplementing and supplementing this mandate. However, the law says that the minister issues a list of professions that require a license and a register. Mr. Secretary, this is not an easy matter. To give someone a license, this is the right permit to work with a limited period of seven years when they have to renew it, including keeping the register, these are things that are necessary for the profession, but very difficult. And leave it to the Minister to determine for which professions a new diploma, a different diploma, a degree for a certain time and keeping a register is required, one special regime for the treatment of a particular profession. Leave that to the Minister. Mr. Minister, let's bet three bottles of champagne that this will fall on the Constitutional Court. For the Constitutional Court has said several times how to approach this matter. And we don't want anything but to avoid this danger, this nonsense, because we don't have a fig in our pocket, and we just want to give a little of that profession. If you think that all professions do not belong here, that another profession needs to be entered, it can still be complemented in the third reading, but we think that at the present moment, which means plus, minus ten years, a comprehensive list of professions that belong to such a level of treatment is sufficient. That's the only reason we proposed an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. This is the amendment of the LDS Club of Members, noting that, if adopted, the amendment under the two will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 46 Members and Members voted against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the amendment to Article 3 has been adopted and therefore the amendment under Article 2 is irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask whether any of the qualified candidates would like to make an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I have not received any notice from the legislative and legal services and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure that the law is not harmonised due to the amendment adopted. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister and the Secretary of State for their cooperation. And we're moving on to Treatment 3. Agenda items - On the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of the Optional Units for the will of Members in the State Assembly, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by Davorin Terčon and Dorian Marshič. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As you said, my colleague Dorian Marshic and I have tabled a bill amending the law on the definition of constituencies. The concrete proposed amendment concerns changes in the second constituency, which we have proposed is that three settlements from the sixth constituency in the second constituency be placed in the fifth constituency. We have drawn up such a proposal on the basis of the initiative of the peoples of these three settlements, which are many years old and which we have been alerted to and which is the result of changes in local self-government or a different outline of the borders of the municipalities. These three settlements were in the former congregation of Sežana in the past. After the members of the congregations, however, they settled in the congregation of Koper. In doing so, I must point out that they also belong to the administrative unit of Koper. We followed the principle of the law that the constituencies themselves include one or more congregations or parts of a congregation. When the law waited for consideration, we received a number of initiatives from civil society or from the field, and I also proposed amendments to the Committee in the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth constituencies. As I said, this is due to the fact that civil society has presented to us the need to change and follow the principle that we have been following in another constituency and in other changes, electoral units. It is a principle that the boundaries of the election robberies coincide with the boundaries of the congregations. In doing so, I would like to point out that the government has also drawn up an almost identical proposal for a committee, with a change in the sixth constituency, which follows another principle that is present at regional centres such as Nova Gorica, Koper and Kranj. This is a change in the sixth constituency, as I said, in the area of the municipality of Novo Mesto. This is about the principle that only the regional centre forms one constituency and the surrounding regional centre is about another constituency. On the basis of the decisions of the Board [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Madam Vice President, please calm down, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u271	Mr. Tarchoon, I'm desperate with you. I'm really trying, I'm asking for peace in the hall. Once again, I ask you kindly to allow the speaker the needed peace so that he can discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The Committee has also supported these proposed amendments that we have drafted on the Committee, so that we now have a package of changes in the electoral units, as I have already stated. It is a matter of following the principles, as I have said, so that the boundaries of the constituencies coincide with the boundaries of the municipalities and ultimately with the administrative and administrative division in Slovenia, with the exception of the sixth constituency, where I said it was to follow the principle of regional centres as in other cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u273	Thank you very much. There are no government representatives among us. I ask whether the rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u274	Since the applicant has already explained everything that has been going on on the committee, I think that my additional explanation is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u275	Mr. President, thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Novivo intervenes in changing the area of the fifth and sixth constituencies in the second constituency. By reshaping the local self-government system, three local communities from the municipality of Sežana joined the municipality of Koper, followed by suitable accommodation in areas from the sixth to the fifth constituency. As it has been said, the principle of geographical rounding should be respected, although the change in the constituency will also change the number of voters in the constituency, which should not be a problem or a violation of the principle of equal electoral rights, as the Constitutional Court has found, since the election results of the ballots are calculated by electoral units, among which the minimum differences are. As we know, the Member has been elected by vote in all eleven constituencies, not just one; therefore, it is not the one who has obtained the absolute maximum number of votes, but the one who has received more votes in his district than the other candidates in the same candidate list in other places. The novel itself therefore does not mean much and does not change the electoral results, but it points to efforts to put things in their place as is expected in a regulated country. Since the amendment of the law was proposed by a Member from an area where the transformation of municipalities took place, the question arose immediately whether there was no similar case in Slovenia. On the committee itself, this proved to be true, as was said, of the transformation of the congregations that took place in 1998, when 45 new congregations were established, and in 2002 when one new congregation was established. This raises the question of what the government is doing, or more precisely, the Office for Local Self-Government. We would expect this to be the task of a government or a government office and wonder whether this office actually works. We do not oppose the novel in our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija. However, we want the government to be more obedient in this regard and to deal with these issues on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, I don't know which way it is today, but I'm happy. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the definition of electoral units for the elections of Members and Members was tabled by colleagues Terčon and Martšič. The proposal is corrected, correct and correct in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. I will not repeat the stories and content of the texts we have or will hear. However, allow me to ask the correct questions on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, at least in our view. We would like to know if the proposal for a law would be adopted, what the consequences of adopting this proposal would be for the elections already announced for 3 October. I think that's a very important question. In our view, the Republican Electoral Commission, after the adoption of this law, should of course be adopted, should amend certain lists. Another question that we are interested in is what would happen with regard to the announced elections when this bill was adopted, for example, if the Council of State vetoes this adopted proposal. We will be happy to hear the answers that are, of course, acceptable to all of us. And last but not least, there are certain terms, such as deadlines, such as the enforceability of this law, if it is adopted or amended on the 15th day or enters into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal. These are three key issues, according to the Slovenian National Party. If the adoption of this proposal changes anything, at least it is fair to all of us, we do not cheer in the Slovenian National Party without the election sooner or later, they are called for October 3rd, but it is fair to all of us Members and it is fair to know that the consequences are fair to our assessment that respected colleagues have listened to the ground to submit this bill. However, if the answer is that anything can and will change in relation to the elections, of course, we are asking the Slovenian National Party whether I am speaking again if the consequences will be whether such a way of change, although it is substantively justified, is politically correct. But these are just a few questions, three questions that the Slovenian National Party would like to answer. However, it is a fact that we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the electoral units law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-13-SDZ3-Redna-38.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Mr Will not. [[..]] Mr. Franci Rokavec? Not at all. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal - to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 12.07.2004. I am putting to the debate the first article and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations and DeSUS Group Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Mr Barovic, just in explanation, the law enters into force, not on the 15th day, but on the day following the publication. If it is enforced by 26 this month, i.e. in force and enforced, it will apply to these elections, otherwise not. Please. We are moving to a vote on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. An amendment was adopted. Does anyone want to make an amendment or qualified proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I have not informed you that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted might be inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
