ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As usual, some of our colleagues are detained because of other obligations. These are colleagues of Battelli, Brac, Kangler, Kavtičnik, Kebrich, Lavrinc, Levič and Merlo. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RESOLUTION ON THE PREVENTION OF Corruption IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government. I'm asking the government if he wants a word? Please, Mr Drago Kos, Undersecretary of State at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Republic of Slovenia has been corrupt for a long time and is still working in the same way as the countries with which we share a similar history, particularly in a repressive way. The problem is that it only eliminates the most obvious consequences of the most visible corruption, but does not eliminate the causes, circumstances and conditions that allow corruption to occur. And because of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already decided in 2001 to try to draw up a document that would cover comprehensively, comprehensively and comprehensively all measures that can be taken to prevent corruption and not only repressively against those who deal with it. The production of the document started in 2002 and started in January. And as you can see, the document is quite extensive. It applies not only to state institutions but also to the economy, to the media, to civil society as such and to the general public. With all or with their representatives, negotiations have been held, a series of talks and solutions have been made, at least some of the ones you have in the draft document before you have been the subject of very precise, very detailed processing and have sometimes been the subject of weighing individual words. Furthermore, in the drafting of this resolution, which is in fact nothing but a national strategy for the prevention of corruption, to take into account the recommendations of all international organisations involved, in particular the United Nations and the Council of Europe, all the similar documents of countries that already have such documents have been reviewed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is convinced that the document is as it is now and as we hope it will be accepted that Slovenia will not be a disgrace, but a great pride. In order not to repeat the resolution you have before you, I would mention only some of the basic things that we consider to be most important, namely, the basic assumption for this resolution is respect for human rights and freedoms. The adoption of this resolution does not start the witch hunt. All the bodies that are already working will have to work on the basis of the powers they have so far. When the specific risk of individual cases justifies the interference of these rights and freedoms, these authorities will then be entitled to these interventions and will not be given these powers by a resolution alone. The next assumption, which is just as important, if not as important as respect for human rights and freedoms, is an appropriate political will. Corruption can occur anywhere, in any body, in any organisation, in any space, and if you want, even in any political party. And that is why we stand in the position that corruption is an apolitical phenomenon. And he needs to be fought apolitically. In practical terms, this means that the moment when documents, such as the resolution on preventing corruption, begin to be adopted, is a document that is due to one political party or political option or that one of the parties does not identify with it then the battle is lost. Next assumption, timing. You all know very well that we have paid very great attention to the problem of corruption in Slovenia recently. The logical consequence is that the public is animated, that public awareness and attention are very high in these phenomena. But not only does the public expect state institutions to do something concrete in the fight against corruption. And this resolution is one such step, which, I stress, will not in itself change anything. The adoption of the resolution itself will only be a start, a prerequisite for real action in this area. If the proposal for this resolution is adopted, and we hope that this will only lay the groundwork for targeted, planned and comprehensive action in the area of anti-corruption, which will take years, perhaps even decades. There is no doubt that corruption, whatever it is today, will adapt to all the measures that we will plan and implement and new emerging forms will emerge. This also means that our activities will also have to adapt to new forms of corruption that we may not even know today. The two objectives of this resolution should be highlighted: zero tolerance must be enforced and responsibility for illegal acts must be exercised in a consistent manner. And if we succeed in achieving these two objectives, then we think that this resolution will achieve what we are essentially trying to achieve: to reduce the level of corruption in force in this country. This cannot be resolved, but if we are able to reduce matters, we believe that the document itself and our debate today will certainly be of sufficient quality to justify all the measures that will be taken on the basis of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary of State. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy. He has appointed a colleague of Paul Rupar as a minister, but he is not in the Chamber, so we will move on to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. The first to ask for the floor is the DeSUS Group of Members. Comrade Lenko will present her views. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representative, colleagues and fellow Members! The dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language defines corruption as giving or receiving awards due to faster, more favourable, usually illegal resolution of official matters and also as perversion, corruption, usually due to such action or acceptance of awards. Corruption is a phenomenon that is constantly occurring in such or other forms in every society. The task of the state is to try to limit it as much as possible. The problem facing the country is the definition of this problem; also the legal profession is not uniform in terms of definition. In fact, only when we define the matter precisely can we effectively solve it. Recently, in Slovenia, this topic is constantly on the agenda, which in our view is not good, because we are convinced that this needs to be pursued systematically, thoughtfully and without excessive noise with a view to obtaining pre-election points. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support all efforts to reduce corruption, which undoubtedly exists in Slovenia. Not only do state statistics show this, but other empirical surveys show that we have much more corruption than is evident from official data. Moreover, even on the official website of the US government agency of the CIA, which covers the main data on all countries of the world, it says that in the light of the recent EU entry into Slovenia, corruption is one of the things that the country should tackle as soon as possible. In all of this, it is important to recognize the phenomenon of corruption. Transparency is a fundamental principle and at the same time a prerequisite for a successful fight against corruption. This can be achieved with complete transparency. A key point in this story is the supervision to be carried out by a specific competent authority to monitor the implementation of the resolution, but it is necessary to undertake such an important and risky project primarily with the participation of the State and civil society, with the motivation of all citizens. After all, the whole thing depends on the human factor. It is therefore essential to set a preventive approach, in particular in identifying and eliminating the causes and conditions of corruption. We believe that much could be done with appropriate education, but not only in public schools, especially at home. The motion for a resolution before us today includes as many as 171 measures to prevent, combat and involve the public and private sectors, from politics and state administration to the media, economies and the general public. This document is in line with the guidelines which prevail in the EU and in other international organisations where Slovenia is a full member. This will fill in formal extensions for concrete solutions. However, we expect our country to be actively involved in all international projects and education of our staff, which we will be able to deal with at all levels. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we assess that the motion for a resolution is necessary for the normal development and functioning of our society and the country, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Comrade Lenko. This was the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. My colleague Vukko will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President. Of course, we will support the motion for a resolution in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. At the same time, we are pleased to have before us a document that is important, even though it is a document of a political nature, but it is important to stress that this coalition is a document with which the government clearly proves that we are ready to deal with corruption issues in the future. Last but not least, we have proven this by adopting a law on the prevention of corruption. It is not necessary to recall, however, that, on the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, solutions have been adopted to fill some of the gaps that have existed so far, in particular those relating to the supervision and restriction of the operations of managers and supervisors in public companies, institutions, agencies and funds. This complement needs to be seen as an instrument and a contribution to the prevention of corruption and an instrument that also prevents the emergence of potential customerism. It is already addressing the anti-corruption law, and this document today testifies to the readiness of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this coalition, this government, to tackle corruption prevention with clear objectives, with clear measures, is said to be systemic. It should be pointed out, however, that so far this government has done a number of things in this area and does not hold to the claim that, especially in the pre-election period, this government and this coalition do not want to and does not want to address this issue. In our view, the resolution is a good one, and it deals comprehensively with the fight against corruption. We particularly welcome the sixth chapter, which contains specific guidelines and measures to combat corruption, both in the policy area and in the field of state administration, as well as in the economy, the media and non-governmental organisations. Whatever the measures are already in place, we believe that these guidelines and these measures are binding. If they had been written differently, more declaratoryly, these policies and measures would have lost their focus and would have become more than silent. Today is the time to talk about all aspects and problems of corruption. Today is the time to talk about the situation in this area, the danger of corruption, the proposed measures and guidelines. Today, here, and not elsewhere, and not in a completely unproductive way or late into the night at extraordinary sessions convened by some sensations and television cameras wanted by individuals. We look forward to a debate and proposals on how to improve the resolution here. We do not agree that in extraordinary meetings, on average, this issue is on a flat-rate basis. From this point of view, the Liberal Democracy Group believes that the biggest problem at the moment is preventing a more effective fight against corruption, the full politicisation of this issue. Unfortunately, the opposition only sees the fight against corruption as a means of generating political points. This is evidenced by the fact that the opposition has so far not proposed any concrete, serious proposal that would increase the possibility of a successful fight against corruption in the future at a systemic level. In this regard, it is interesting that the opposition does not have any concrete comments on the motion for a resolution, but offers a general statement, which it constantly imposes, in the hope that this falsehood will be caught in the ears of the electorate. Let me quote the first part of this amendment. "Because of the lack of political will and the long-standing rule of one political option, the corruption in the Republic of Slovenia has in recent years grown widely into all branches of government and thus has become a major social evil" etc. Sorry, it's a fairy tale. It's a fairy tale, it's a claim without any real basis. The problems of corruption cannot be traced to just one political option, as they wish in the opposition. And that, your esteemed opposition colleagues, you prove it yourself, you have proved it in the past, you prove it today. In this respect, there is another interesting conclusion. There is no clear statement or empirical research anywhere in the world that there is a power to link, it is said, to prove the causal links between corruption and the length of the involvement of individual political parties in leading or participating in government. Just a few cases. Sweden has been on the 6th-place corruption scale, a Social Democratic Party and a Labour Party for 56 years, and has been leading or participating in governments since 1936. Norway has been on a corruption scale in the eighth place, and the working party has been leading or participating in governments for 40 years. Italy, which is the opposite, has replaced as many as eight governments since 1992, and is on a high level in 35th place, with the Republic of Slovenia in a high 29th place. It is, of course, impossible to simply write down and argue that corruption is only a result of, as stated, the long-standing rule of one political option. Of course, we will reject this amendment and we will fully support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, it shall not be allowed to be politicised with the parliamentary groups of others. Comrade Petan now has the floor, followed by Comrade Potch. Mr Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! It is an extremely sensitive topic which Slovenia must also address, whether we are in an election year or not, because corruption does not know this "time". In doing so, I would like to point out that the adoption of legal bases in the fight against corruption is a strange approach, to say the least. We first adopted the law, which was the end of last year, and six months later the government is submitting a resolution, i.e. a system from one point to another. It is almost as if the doctor had first prescribed the medicine for the patient, and a few months later he would have diagnosed it and set it up. This is probably not the case, and in other areas, the procedure has been reversed, first a general approach, this is a resolution, and then a specific law. The very order of adoption shows the confusion of government policy in the fight against corruption. When we passed the law at the end of last year, we in our SDS Group drew attention to the anomalies of such an approach, of course we also drew attention to other things, we advocated that the existing office be given greater powers and operational immediately. Of course, the government majority insisted on a different approach, and now we see that we were right. This act, which is not yet the last one, we will have to adopt an action plan to implement the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, so we could say a new act on a new act and it is some kind of "never ending story". If, as we have suggested, all bodies would already be operational and would only be complemented by legislation. But now we are somewhere in the middle or maybe not, because carriers, hands, performance criteria and other important assumptions for the implementation of the adopted programme need to be determined in essence. This means that, half a year after the adoption of the law, we are not ready and the anti-corruption authorities are still incomplete and do not have all the legal bases. This proves that the stubbornness of the ruling coalition, which, in its entirety in the new content and a different approach to the anti-corruption and new organisation approach, is prejudicial to the effectiveness of persecution or the fight against corruption rather than beneficial. But it is true that some new facts have been revealed in this regard. In a binding part of the law, the government acknowledges some of the shortcomings and some of the legality of its work. Already in the introduction, this is on page 49, that you can check for yourself, for it is written, "the number of corruption crimes in Slovenia is relatively low, according to official data, but empirical surveys show that corruption in the country is not as much as it would require the imposition of extraordinary measures, but it is undeniable that concerted and decisive action by both the state and all its inhabitants is needed." This means that it is not good if we have some intermediate time when the authorities responsible for this and which are intended to do so do not have all the legal bases and are not yet cleared. This is certainly progress in view of the current position. I would also like to draw your attention to the position of this material, which is on page 50, which says: "So far, the data collected show that the Republic of Slovenia has been burdened with corruption to a greater extent than the statistics of the detection and prosecution authorities show, which makes it necessary to act in a comprehensive and deliberate manner. The fact is that the State of Slovenia is less burdened with corruption than comparable transition countries, but still cannot be compared with countries that have managed to overcome this problem." In the SDS, of course, we support such an opinion, but we also support an opinion written on the same page that says: "Prevention, detection and persecution of corruption is only possible with broad and clear political support. Planning and implementing certain changes is only possible with the broadest social consensus on the dangerous consequences of corruption and the importance of anti-corruption measures without dividing them into political parties located in or outside the government." Therefore, it is likely that our requests for a special session or special treatment of these problems were entirely justified and probably also something else, which I will point out later. In the opposition, of course, we are fully aware of these responsibilities and, therefore, we should not be surprised by these proposals to deal specifically with these problems. I would also like to draw attention to the content of the material, where the government notes that it is necessary to ensure the independence and efficiency of the detection, prosecution and judicial bodies in Slovenia. And if I link this to a finding at the outset, where it is stated that addressing this corruption and following the broader social objectives of the resolution, among them in particular identifying areas most exposed to corruption, transparent and legal financing by political parties, successful reform of the state administration, overcoming the conflicts of interests of public services, ensuring legal, professional and responsible decision-making, establishing appropriate mechanisms for perception, informing about possible corruption, ensuring a truly independent and effective functioning of detection of prosecution and the judiciary. This means that we do not have total independence now. And this, I think, is progress that the government has recognised and itself acknowledges that we still have a great intertwine between policies and bodies that should act independently. And that is why the demands of the opposition are all the more justified. The cause of such a situation is already, by definition, conditioned by the fact that the long and uninterrupted power of one political option or of a party in power conditions the rise of corruption. Of course, it must be corrected and it must be stressed that this does not mean, and even in the opposition we never claim that any party is fundamentally corrupt. We have never said that and we will never say that, but it is true that if one option, one political party is in power continuously for a long time, there is a greater possibility, because there is a overlap between all possible authorities, all possible exercises and also various knowledge that makes it possible. Therefore, once again, no one condemns that any party or political option is fundamentally corrupt, but uninterruptedly long-term authority makes this possible. And in Slovenia, you could say that's what happened. One of these causes is what the government has written in this material. Indeed, recruitment in public services still does not follow only the criteria of efficiency and professionalism, the strengthening of the economy, but also leads to the relocation of experts from public services to private companies. This is said to be still political and is adapted to this policy option, which is continuously in power. And then it is no wonder that society in all its segments is intertwined with the personnel that are closer to this option, which is so long in power. But that doesn't mean that these "a priors" are like that, but that happens, it comes over the course of a long reign. And even in this light, it would be right if the ruling coalition understood the opposition's proposal that even in the supervisory councils where the government has a majority, there would be someone other than those that are political and political in the ruling majority. If he were at least one of the opposite sex, if nothing else, he'd take care of surveillance and a bigger review. And also the data on those, I'll say, inappropriate acts would probably come out sooner, and that would be more than enough control. That would be more than enough, and if anything, then the ruling majority is drowning in the fact that the opposition could also name professional people in the supervisory worlds, as it also calls them, as it calls them. We do not claim to be professional, but if she calls them herself, then there is a greater likelihood that they are suitable for her; why does she not appoint any of the opposition? This would certainly help to ensure that we do not have different SIBs and that we do not go into specific cases, which may not be bad at all. Deviant phenomena occur in particular in the field of public procurement, because the established connections give orders to those who are connected or are members of the ruling parties. This will certainly be easier if a policy option is long in power and has the opportunity, the time and the opportunity to appoint its people at all times at all levels. The measures must be most widely laid down and should be dealt with in an operational and less legislative manner. Political will must be present. And certainly this political will is less if we have the same option constantly, which employs, which appoints, has access and has the budget, with public procurement and so on. And the executive authorities must also be motivated to do something in this area and not to be influenced by the same policy options that have been in power for a long time. In doing so, we would like to point out to the SDS that, above all, we should move from words and also from resolutions and also from laws to acts, and here I would like to draw attention to the specific case experienced by our colleague Dr. Bajuk when he suggested, on behalf of the Commission, that the statutes of limitations would not be so short as to extend. However, of course, the ruling majority did not want to hear anything about it, so, of course, he left the Commission's management of the budget and public finances in protest. If that were the case, then there would probably be a little more fear, a little more fear that there would not be so much corruption in our society. We all agree with that. And if everyone had some sort of consequences ahead of them, then they'd probably consider when they'd be dealing with individual phenomena, or a group that would do that. Thus things get old within a relatively short period of time, and we know how our judiciary works. Not only do I think of a solution within an unrealistic time frame, but I also think of individual cabinets that are full of different materials that are dusted and then, by a strange coincidence, they find similar things when the authorities that should act do not accept the material at all or do not want it or simply say that they have not received it, that they have lost it and then ask again after one year where the material is. If such phenomena were to be reduced in practice, it would probably also prove to be a different political will in a country. It is possible that there is less corruption in Scandinavian countries, but every comparison with Slovenia and the search for some legality is almost infertile, as Slovenia is still not a Scandinavian and a tradition, including a democratic tradition in Slovenia and also a tradition of fighting corruption is completely different in Slovenia, as Slovenia is still a transition state and not a Scandinavian country. That is why such comparisons will I say, more an excuse than an example of will, a political will to take this problem seriously also politically, as we have heard at the beginning. Probably this way of looking for excuses is not going to come to that desired effect, that desired effect, because probably all of you are, probably, we imagine in the SDS at least this way that we all want this problem to be smaller, because we all face the unpleasant end of this problem one way or another. Despite the fact that the resolution is a piece of paper without teeth, it is true that this is some legal framework for this area of the fight against corruption, despite the fact that the ruling majority did not have an understanding of the opposition's proposal, that we should first adopt a resolution and then a concrete law, and regardless of the fact that in the opposition we have proposed that the authorities that have already taken care of it, this is the Anti-Corruption Office, be given new powers, greater powers, and be operational immediately, and would then just add to them possible powers, those for whom we would have agreed and who would have obtained a majority in Parliament. Despite the fact that this has not been accepted and that we are still in an empty space and that these authorities still do not have all the legal grounds for combating corruption, we are aware in the SDS that the resolution is one of the acts that Slovenia must have, especially since this document contains quite a few good things that we would have signed ourselves. We will, of course, support this resolution, but we would like to see that we do not have just one new legal act every six months to define and complement this issue, and we will find again and again that we do not have a full and clear basis for solving this problem. In spite of all this, we will support this resolution, of course with great desire, that this resolution would also be a good framework for greater political will, both in the legislative and executive branches and in the judiciary, to somehow step on those problems or to limit them to some extent, at least as in the European Union countries, in those old members of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u10	President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act, the adoption of a resolution at a normative level rounds around the obligations and tasks of the State to address the causes and consequences of corruption. I stress the country's obligations and tasks, since the resolution also contains, in addition to determining the situation, the specific tasks of all, policies, the national assembly, governments, administrative bodies and civil society, information means and the like, stressing that only comprehensive activity is, at the same time, the one that can deliver full results. I would like to point out that, in our belief, the whole is important - the law and the resolution. The law, we understand, has set up legal frameworks for the functioning of forms and organs. The content of what needs to be done at individual levels of society and organisation is set out in this resolution. We fully supported the relevant anti-corruption law in the United Nations Social Democrats' Group months ago. That is how we support the fully prepared text. Our belief is that the text is prepared with care, transparency and, above all, concreteness. It would have been difficult to imagine even - the warnings of the legislative service at some stage were that the tasks were written too concretely as legislative and binding, which was not supposed to be the content of a resolution that was of a more orderly nature. However, we believe that it is right that the tasks are written so specifically for any form of society's organisation, because they will also be able to verify how they are being carried out and because they mean that I say a clear reference standard collected in one place, what must be done preventively and then also repressively to prevent corruption. Therefore, we do not think that the content of the resolution would be toothless. On the other hand, a lot of ground gives to all of us, and the question is whether we will want to follow these goals and tasks at different levels. In our opinion, therefore, the resolution is concrete both with regard to the assessment of the situation in Slovenia and with regard to the objectives and measures to prevent and combat corruption, as well as with regard to monitoring its implementation in direct practice. If we are concrete, we will also recognise the resolution's good readiness in today's debate. Especially since we were able to prepare and propose only one amendment for the meeting of the national assembly in the home working body and later for the meeting of the national assembly. Therefore, I think that those who say that the resolution is bad or toothless or inconclusive must admit that this moment together we have not been able to figure out what and where to complement it in order to be strong teeth and even more concrete. Only one amendment, which is a proposal that wants to change the overall assessment of the situation, is probably not enough. And this, in my view, is also proof that, in fact, there is no difference between political options when we are preparing activities, how to tackle the causes of corruption in an organised and systematic manner; differences are when we want to assess individual cases mainly with political objectives, not through the actual situation. And what do we believe in the United List of Social Democrats that it is particularly important to stress with regard to the resolution on the prevention of corruption? That corruption is a social evil against which no society is immune, against which comprehensive social activity must be organised and against which no tolerance or indulgence is permitted. Only permanent, organised, simultaneous, preventive and repressive activities that address the causes and opportunities for corruption are successful, as well as concrete consequences. Although less than comparable transition countries are burdened by Slovenia's different sources of identification, it is more than official statistics show, and above all it cannot be compared with countries that have managed to cope with this problem. I think it is right that it is incontrovertible, we clearly acknowledge this, that we would not have anyone, either in public or that the political party would not have noticed that one of us admits that corruption is a problem and that there is also a problem in Slovenia, and the other one wants to hide it. No, we admit, it's a serious problem, so we're also organizing to prevent it. Therefore, in Slovenia too, continuous, responsible, comprehensive social activity is needed to prevent corruption, but not only in the form of affairs, extraordinary meetings, general accusations that can otherwise help to create awareness of the negative consequences of corruption, but, in particular, they cannot contribute to the elimination of corruption. In the United List of Social Democrats, we expect the obligations imposed by the resolution to be carried out in a responsible manner throughout society, that is to say, in the part concerning our competences concerning our decision-making in the National Assembly. The resolution notes that in many areas legislative activities are also needed, even when it comes to policy conduct when it comes to the conduct of the legislative body, and in this context it also gives us some very specific guidance on which issues to discuss, sometimes what the content of this legislative activity should be. I would like to point out that, on certain issues, the guidance and content of this resolution give different direction than has been our concrete decision-making so far. I therefore expect the adoption of a resolution, which I have no doubt, to change our concrete actions at these points. The resolution underlines, for example, the implementation and monitoring of the new rules on the performance of public functions through profitable activities. We have complemented the law in this direction when we passed the Anti-Corruption Act and I think we can do this. It recommends the adoption of rules on the incompatibility of individual public functions, and explicitly mentions, as an example, the role of MEP and mayor. Colleagues and colleagues, I do not claim to be right or wrong, but this resolution recommends that we reconsider whether this compatibility of functions is justified or not at this point. Those we have warned so far have been criticized many times that we do not understand the problem and that we want to blame anyone. When we adopt the resolution, I think this will become our obligation at this point as well. Another such thing recommends that we examine the incompatibilities of the simultaneous membership of public officials in the management and or supervisory bodies of public institutions, public undertakings, funds, public agencies, companies owned by the majority of the country and local communities. Therefore, it recommends that we study the incompatibility of simultaneous membership. It does not recommend to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the division of functions be one-half or one-third of the coalition and one-half or two-thirds of the opposition, but incompatible. And in this part, in the future, when we talk about the problems of membership in the supervisory councils and the like, we will have to think not only about which political option has too many representatives and requires others to get them, but we will have to talk about the fact that they are experts who are not directly politically connected and do not perform functions in society. And these things show serious thought. I believe it will be difficult. I believe that this will not be very easy to agree with, but I think it is also in these some cases that this gap between words and actions is also to be noted in our home. A third such question is when it comes to specific prosecutions of individuals, I would say, even people who are closer to a party in one way or another. We are very happy to say that they are using uneven criteria and I will not argue, and I do not hope to claim that such unequal criteria are sometimes lacking. The question is whether these unequal criteria are only apparent because the circumstances are also different, or if the circumstances are different in the same circumstances, then the conduct is different. In this other case, that would not be right. But we are used to things, if someone who is outside our political options is persecuted, we say right, and this is proof that the courts are working independently. On the contrary, if one of our political options is being pursued, we say, look how biased the courts are, our man is being persecuted, someone else we may not even know who he is. And it's a similar case when we decide on immunity. Instead of making extreme restrictive use of immunity, especially when it comes to questions and actions related to the work of the Member State, we are also prepared to vote on it for traffic offences, for personal offences related either to property or to personal conduct. I think that we must also imagine here how we are and how we will act in the future in accordance with the resolution as outlined for us. Finally, since the resolution also has a chapter on its implementation, which is good, I expect that the government will have a six-month deadline as soon as possible - to prepare a specific programme of legislative activities to require such a programme by the National Assembly, to decide on it and then to make a programme of legislative action to implement this resolution one of the priorities that the Assembly will have in the autumn. We will therefore also pay attention to the implementation of these tasks in the National Assembly and the Government, and we believe that the resolution therefore deserves all the attention and support because it will contribute to the elimination of this social evil, which is also present in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Comrade Janez Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! The proposed document, the resolution on the prevention of corruption in Slovenia, is a document of a political nature, but we can also say that it is a technical document, which is one of those things which, by the very nature of things, is considered to be due to us and then to others. Who are the others? These are international organisations dealing with the problem of preventing corruption and evaluating the Slovenian state as it progresses in its path of the rule of law and democratisation. It is therefore appropriate to adopt such a document in the national assembly. I must say that our principled assessment is as follows: this is a document that cannot harm, and unfortunately it does not bring about a new one. I will list some conceptual, general reasons or comments and then seven specific comments to that resolution. But these are comments of a nature that are at the starting point and regrettably cannot be incorporated into the text itself by means of an amendment. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the resolution should not only be an expression of the political will of the current government to address this problem, but rather a professional document with long-term implications. In our view, what Slovenia needs in the long term is a serious national anti-corruption programme, which should involve everyone concerned and not just the government. Only a programme designed by it, not only by the government but also by the private sector and civil society, I stress, civil society, could provide a realistic and binding basis for urgent activities in this area. Corruption is a comprehensive problem that not only affects government activities but requires a close and responsible alliance between government and non-governmental organisations, the media and all citizens. As far as we have seen from the document, this is not the result of wider cooperation. Some government departments have not been or have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation. In our view, education and sport are one of such resources. Corruption is, of course, a problem that can be limited by legislation and institutional measures, but the key problem is corruption thinking, the idea that laws are written to be played because it is necessary to know in life. The belief that avoiding the law or their playing in life simply makes it easier for him to succeed than it is for legal work. Therefore, if the belief that corruption is the right and successful way for economic and social success prevails in society, then the fight against corruption, despite any legislative and institutional measures, is already lost in advance. Many analysts from the former socialist countries point to the problem of the corruption mentality of the citizens of these countries. However, Slovenia is still in a difficult position, as we have been under the influence of the Balkan cultural forms for almost half a century, which are unfortunately considered to be a failure to respect the laws and to play the laws and powers of folklore. People in this area have been corrupt for many years and they accept it as something natural and are morally uncondemned at all. The experience of countries successfully coping with corruption shows that their strategy has focused on maximizing opportunities for corruption, the development of a so-called situational prevention. They have increased repression against offenders and have given particular attention to efforts to change cultural forms. Each document on corruption should be based on a fundamental understanding that efforts must be made, for the first time, to develop a culture of legitimacy, this is the belief that laws must be implemented, and for the second time, to increase the general level of sensitivity and criticism of citizens for irregularities, which is only possible if we have a developed civil society formed by an independent group government and, of course, independent media from the government. The fulfilment of these two essential requirements can only allow the development of a non-corrupted individual and society, while both are insufficient in the document. So what does the government intend to do in these two key areas? In Slovenia, contrary to these experiences, the solution to structural problems appears to be possible through the simple adoption of a law or the establishment of a government service that will then deal with the problem. Far from it. The law can be written, the commission can also be easily established, but it is very difficult to change people's minds. The resolution pays very little or no attention to the education of citizens, especially young people. Training for responsibility is very important for each society. Civil education in the consciousness of citizens incorporates high moral standards and values and enables them to reject and condemn criminal behaviour as a social evil. Only education in line with positive moral values and ethical standards can contribute to the sense of moral rejection in contact with corrupt practices. Anti-corruption content should therefore become a fundamental educational and educational content, the basis of civic education. The best approach against crime and especially corruption is the implementation of a good programme of moral and civic education, which creates an individual and mass culture that is hostile to corruption. Although the Government is of the opinion that, on the basis of this resolution, it will give priority to preventive forms of work, among the 172 measures listed above, only one directly relates to the development of anti-corruption content in the education of the schooling youth, G 34. The vast majority or almost all of those measures relate to legislative and institutional changes. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to make seven more concrete comments on the resolution, which are also essentially conceptual in nature. First comment. There is no mention in the introduction - in the introduction - of the extremely important role of independent media, which are so-called "watch dogs" or watchdogs in every democratic society. This is such an important part of the fight against corruption that the role of independent media must certainly be highlighted in the introduction itself. It is also necessary to mention the important role of NGOs in the introduction. Second point. The definition of corruption should be, if the resolution really wanted to be preventive, not only formal law - this is limited to criminal understanding - but corruption must be understood in a broader sense. Only a broader definition allows for a broader debate on the phenomenon of corruption and does not limit itself to precisely defined provisions in the criminal code. In a broader sense, corruption is not necessarily illegal and criminal, but it is morally rejected, unethical and condemned. The definition of corruption in the resolution is very vague and too complex. Even more complex and incomprehensible is its interpretation and, as such, does not fall under the resolution at all. It would certainly be much better to assume the definition of corruption of the Council of Europe, which is simple, which is clear and says that it is, I quote: "Corruption of any activity of persons entrusted to them in the public or private sector, which violates their duties arising from the status of public servants, employees in the private sector, independent agencies and other relations of this kind and is aimed at obtaining any unjustifiable benefits for themselves and others." End of quote. Third specific comment. The definition, as set out in the resolution, focuses only on the promised, offered or given benefit of participants in a corruption relationship. Nowhere does it mention the very important problem of systemic corruption. It is a relationship when it receives a small or large form of routine business between the public sector and private companies and individuals. This is a systematic corruption where no business can take place without direct awards, commissions, other benefits acquired or indirect funding. For example, political parties in exchange for acquired transactions at a time when a party has authority. Fourth specific comment. We also cannot agree with the position expressed in the resolution that repression is not also an important preventive element in the fight against corruption. Failures to detect and suppress corruption in the form of failure to prove and sanction may still be an important incentive for the perpetrators of corruption, and in particular an incentive for those who hesitate to do so. The essence of repression must be a clear message that corruption does not pay off. Unfortunately, there has been virtually no conviction in Slovenia for any major case of corruption, and the results of the repression are in fact difficult to talk about. Fifth point. The resolution refers to the gradual elimination of corruption, which would include the gradual involvement of institutions, in line with priorities. We believe that we should not talk about any gradualness, but should point out in particular the need for the coordinated and complementary functioning of institutions in this area. Repression and prevention must be complemented and the competent institutions must cooperate and pursue a common objective. Sixth point. The objectives of the resolution are, in our view, too shy to say that we do not hope to say that corruption is a great evil, that it is harmful and that it is necessary to fight against it. The main purpose of the resolution is, I quote, to create an appropriate high level of anti-corruption culture. What's appropriate? Is there also an inappropriately high level of anti-corruption culture? Too much shyness, fear, fear of clear action, doubt that some political will is already reflected in the reflection stage of government readiness, but not in the sense of serious purpose, which may signal the public once again that the problem is not actually meant to be taken seriously. The resolution must have a clear purpose, and the objective must also be clear. And the seventh comment, which is the most conceptual of nature. That something is wrong with the content of the resolution is also reflected in chapter eight, where there is talk about the implementation of the resolution. In our view, the positions in this part of the text are based on completely wrong starting points. The resolution is intended to be something that is not binding, according to the proposaler. However, the measures are intended to be implemented primarily consciously and voluntarily. What is the point of such a resolution, then? Of course, it is clear to everyone that the State cannot "ad hoc" force private spheres and civil society to take account of those measures in the resolution. However, whether the government is at all clear enough that it is actually that player in the corruption story, which in some ways has a ball and dictates the pace of the game to all other players, both the private sector and civil society. It is the country that writes the laws that lays down the rules of the game, the country is the one that cooperates businessly with the private sector and dictates business conditions and co-forms business morality. It is the country which, by its actions, affects the work of the non-governmental sector and, which is very important, which creates structural circumstances for working from the government of independent, free media, which is a mirror of the functioning of the government and also creates public opinion. Since the measures proposed in the resolution as measures to raise the level of intolerance to corruption, in fact, according to our assessment of 90%, relate to legislative and institutional changes, the Government will, if it has a serious intention, of course, have to translate them into binding provisions of laws, regulations, regulations which will be binding on its institutions, and thus will be binding on the private sector, to the extent that it will, of course, cooperate with the public. On the basis of this, I could, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, assess that there is a document before us that is well received as a State and as a State Assembly. We are wondering whether the content of this document, which will be directly, indeed, at concrete levels, will achieve a significant shift in the prevention of corruption in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! I will begin with a statement, published publicly, by Mr Boštjan Penk, who says: "Corruption is a serious problem. The seriousness of the situation can be explained by the types of corruption that occurs in Slovenia, which takes place at high levels." And when I look at the resolution on page 10, I read under point B: "The survey on the economic and business environment, business ethics and informal payments in Slovenia, conducted in January of this year, showed that 62% of managers of corruption in the country seem to be a major problem." If I compare these two, you know, it's like a fox complaining about someone stealing chickens. The findings are facts. The legislative and legal service has examined the resolution very carefully and has already clearly warned the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the resolution represents only an act which is not of a legal, binding nature, represents only political guidance and proposes a legislative and legal service that the resolution should also have a common legal basis and power. The law enforcement service has pointed out a whole lot of confusion and error. It noted a number of inconsistencies and inconsistencies with the anti-corruption law. It noted that the concept of corruption in the resolution was treated differently than in the anti-corruption law. She pointed out that there was a lack of statistical data on the level or type of corruption, and in particular one of the previous interlocutors, I think even warned twice that this resolution was very concrete. I read here the opinion of the legislature, which says: "It is only for descriptive measures, they are missing and there are no concrete proposals." I believe in law enforcement. It also pointed out that the tasks of the anti-corruption commission in the resolution were different from those of the law. I don't know, I really don't understand any more, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, to a number of legal, not political, warning and error, the resolution is as it was, and many comments, concretely, have not been taken into account, the government of course as the facilitator. As soon as it was adopted, I think that the end of last year, the anti-corruption law, my fellow Member, Sašo Peca, has made a clear and clear statement, and the Slovenian National Party is still at the heart of this position that this law with 20 articles is merely the rules of procedure of the Commission and nothing else. By merging, we are very interested in what will happen with this resolution. We have just heard from almost all the interlocutors that so many words have been said recently to raise political points. As I recall, even before such European and national elections, there was little hearing. Secondly, one of the previous speakers said that corruption must be pursued in such a way, not in extraordinary sessions, even at night and so forth. This was a respected colleague from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and I just want to say that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u15	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u16	nocturnal session [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u17	There is no controversy during the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. That's what I warned him, as well as you, Comrade Barovic. Please, go ahead, just don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u18	In short, even if it was a night meeting, many would prefer it to be three days. After all, we must never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever again. In journalism, they know six kays -- what, who, where, when, how and why. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I absolutely declare that there is no answer to at least three of these journalistic six basic questions in the resolution. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like a new law on the prevention of corruption and a new resolution, in particular actions. This, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about resolution and content, is taking place peacefully. I would like to tell you one concrete, great case, and I'll take it another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u19	The controversy is not only permitted, but also desirable, at a time when the general debate is under way, possibly also as a type of replica and clarification, when the views of the members of the groups are presented, this is not possible explicitly with the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Dr. Andrej Bajuk will conclude a presentation of the positions and then we will go to the general debate. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Under the anti-corruption law, the government or its anti-corruption office had to draw up a resolution on the prevention of corruption. This sequence of steps is somewhat unusual, since usually the law follows a resolution that identifies the situation in a given area and determines how to resolve the problems identified. The government has accompanied the resolution with beautiful words, such as the national anti-corruption strategy, the long-term and permanent elimination of the conditions for the creation and development of corruption, the full protection of universally recognised human rights and freedoms, and the presumption of innocence. Very nice. The government boasts in this resolution that there are 172 legislative, institutional and practical measures envisaged in Slovenia, and it also explains them for a long time. When he mentions the financing of political parties, which is at a level of half a billion tolars, he forgets the extremely rich flows of budgetary money with which governments or political parties that have set up it buy the favour of corporations that control all sectors of society. A group of pensioners who prevent the outbreaks of discontent with pensioners, various civil society organisations, trade unions that they receive each year, and all those organisations that receive several billion tolls of budget money on behalf of civil society, not to mention student officials who are rich at the expense of working through student services. When it comes to overcoming the conflict of interest in public services, the government is silent. The most harmful practice of the convergence of political power and the management of companies where the State has control shares directly or through public funds. In a very complex and bureaucratic control mechanism to detect and prevent corruption, things are likely to be so organised that it is very difficult to detect and inform corruption. Not to mention a well-known story about disciplinary procedures. The government did not respond to the decision of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, which most of this House did not want to adopt, but did not respond to the principle that, among these 172 proposals, there might be a procedure to extend the period when things become obsolete. When we know that most people know that they are obsolete after three or six months and that this ensures the irresponsibility of bureaucrats who are actually violating the Public Finance Act, the Public Procurement Act. But nothing about it. They haven't forgotten. Actually, they didn't want to do it. And this is the biggest problem with this resolution. He's talking about actions, some of them, letting go of the key ones. But we don't find signs of the essential component of all this, and that's political will. A contemporary French philosopher said, "We must begin at the beginning and the beginning of everything is courage." In this area, however, I would hope to add to the philosopher the determination and will to do so in the first place. Weakness in ensuring the independent and effective functioning of detection, prosecution and judicial bodies and other control mechanisms, which have left very little corruption detected in Slovenia and even less likely to lead to conviction, the government is showing its success. Of course, anyone who doesn't want to see corruption can claim it isn't. On the basis of such disability data, of course, international institutions such as Greece do not detect weaknesses in legislation and organisation in our country. Despite all of Pomkin's villages, Greece, in its last report, found a flaw in the practical fight against corruption and made ten mandatory recommendations to the Slovenian government by 30 June 2005. The government is talking about open and transparent spending procedures, although it needs to know the real situation in public finances, where certain funds are also passed through the budget or are not properly recorded. Government efforts to prevent corruption are also highly questionable because there is no real cooperation between public and private organisations and civil society, as public authorities do not provide assistance to the private sector in effective and self-regulatory action against corruption. When government authorities are closing in on the emerging forms of corruption, when many civil society organisations and individuals receive state subsidies and thus become involved in these phenomena that should be prevented. And last but not least, nothing is said that the effectiveness of the fight against corruption would be even higher if freedom in the media space actually prevailed and we could operate without and beyond the influence of various bots. Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members! We have said a lot about the emerging forms of corruption at the extraordinary meetings held at the request of the opposition. The communication of these extraordinary meetings remains current. We do not have such dangerous micro-corruption, between the citizen and the official, including between the patient and the doctor, the offender and the policeman, the economic power of our country, the competitiveness of our economy and, above all, the moral foundations of the pervasive co-existence are the most widespread of clientism, corruption and conflicts of interest and conflicts of interest within the various circles of the current government in relation to people from the top of politics, economy, state administrations and trade unions, chambers and other corporations that actually co-operate with parties in government coalitions. Therefore, this resolution in our assessment remains only a list of wishes and a set of beautiful phrases that we do not believe and we do not believe that even the drafters themselves do not believe them. Such a resolution does no harm to anyone, but it does no good without political will. That is why you, respected colleagues and colleagues of the government coalition, who already have a temporary sufficient majority - on temporaryity - may think that you do not need to talk after Sunday - this paper just be accepted without the support of our New Slovenia Group of Members. For we believe that the government should speak less about corruption, but it must do something concrete to detect, prevent and punish the perpetrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u21	These were the views of the groups of Members, followed by a general debate on the motion for a resolution of Members and Members. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u22	I see the resolution in particular in the light of the establishment of relations between institutions, which are obliged to do everything possible to prevent or prevent corruption within their powers and powers, of course given both by the anti-corruption law and by the Constitution itself and by other legislation. Thus, at formal level, the constitutional principle of equality before the law is well founded or secured in a legal order consistent with the order of the European Union, consistent with the principle of the division of power and with the human resources and financial policy which ensures the independent functioning of the investigating authorities and the judiciary. On this basis, Slovenia is recognised under the international framework as a well-functioning legal state. Of course, the question is always and every day how these rules actually work under these rules. If we are talking about internationally comparable data, there is a low level of corruption in Slovenia, and even the data we have at our disposal, of course we cannot talk about others, this is confirmed. Public research in our country sees this as a serious problem, i.e. corruption, but it is on the question of when citizens and citizens wonder what experience they have in this, very little practical experience that they would even tell or confirm through these things. It is often suggested that the government is responsible for the alleged, say politically motivated, unequal treatment, as they say in the light of recent affairs. But I can make sure that neither the government nor the party of the ruling coalition have ever thought, nor will we, decide who should be suspected, investigated, accused, arrested, imprisoned, convicted. This is not a political task, and I believe it will not. It is clear, however, that no society can eradicate crime and there is no law that could abuse any possible abuse in advance. Of course, it is more than clear that the imagination of those who try to play the law is at least as rich as those who write the laws and, of course, accept them. That is why it is essential, and in fact, we are doing this in all these ten years to complement the arrangements with new knowledge, with new proposals, including the authorities involved, and, of course, this is what the national assembly and authority must do in the end. We are convinced that the police, the prosecution, the courts must in any case be allowed to work independently, professionally and efficiently. And this is how it is about providing material conditions and legal frameworks, and I have also mentioned this constant renewal and complementarity of the relevant legal frameworks. However, there is no way that we can land and will not agree that the National Assembly or any other institutions not empowered to do so will assume the role of investigative authorities or prosecutors. The MPs cannot have the role of some kind of holy inquisition that her suspects must prove their innocence to her, not the other way around. According to recent extraordinary meetings, some really see themselves as some kind of super prosecutor, who at the same time commands a special prosecutor's group for organised crime, the Money Laundering Office, the tax administration, the district courts and so on. This is not in line with the division of power between different branches and cannot be done by the national assembly. The resolution, despite some perceptions from the general public, ensures that, in fact, these roles of different social actors place them where they need to be and imposes on them those tasks which should also be within their competence. Those who are obliged to detect and prosecute crime do not operate and cannot operate wherever crime may occur. I am convinced that only on the basis of experience and what I have already said, when something is discovered and what shortcomings have been identified in the system, that it has actually come to the attention of the National Assembly, the government is also reacting and, after all these experiences, the power to demonstrate empirically that the government has responded to the fact that, if I speak, for example, with recent changes to the law that has established control of mortgage lending is similar. As we know, in various investigative processes some public function holders, both former and current, have come from both ruling and non-governmental parties. Of course, every suspicion and every accusation does not mean that a crime is behind each and every one of them, and so on. And here it was said, the presumption of innocence exists, and so it is. However, when sufficient evidence is available in individual cases for the initiation of further proceedings, neither can the Attorney-General decide, as is often expected of him, nor the Director-General of Police or the Minister of Justice, except for the officials of the ruling party. It is important that these things can only be moved by the competent ones, i.e. those responsible, and these are the judicial authorities. No one else can and must not move in their place, of course if we do not want to land again in a different country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u23	France Cuckoo gets his word. [[Back-up advertising.]] There's no replica. You'll get your word in the debate, and then you'll be France Cuckoo, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I believe that we will gradually come to some general consensus conclusion that corruption is also a problem in Slovenia and that corruption is a problem. When we started discussing these things and alerting the opposition, of course, we ran into some kind of very negative resistance in the ruling parties. It was talking, or somehow it was coming back to us, you're talking to me, you're talking to me, you're talking about cases. When we mentioned and listed the cases, we were once again condemned that we were not actually called upon to judge and condemn. However, I must say that all these cases were not meant in terms of condemning individuals, individual companies and the like. Some small distance from the plot along the Slovenian coast, someone bought a protected forest of 900 tolars per square meter, cut it down and there will soon be apartments. There are also such cases, including the cases of Ultra, SIB Bank, Orionov is still in Slovenia, and still, endless. That is all we wanted to point out in these debates is that corruption is a problem. And of course then we also got research that confirmed the same. At our conclusions, our proposals were rejected and, of course, already found at the first meeting, in a complaint found by the ruling parties, that we do not have corruption, that all these allegations are meaningless, that they do not prove anything and so on. We now have before us a document that gives interesting information, the data we have also warned about. Let me put it this way. We're two, three. The survey on the economic and business environment, i.e. business ethics and informal payments in Slovenia, proves that from year to year the situation and data from January 2004, says quite fresh data, says that in Slovenia 62% of Slovenian managers believe that corruption in Slovenia is a major problem and that 48% of managers are convinced that without corruption they cannot operate. This is said to be an inevitable part of the Slovenian economic system. Gentlemen, if health care were to find that 48% of Slovenians are infected with HIV, yes, that is the situation, or that the epidemic of black goats is 48% infected, that is the situation. I think it's data that's so alarming that we need more than two extraordinary sessions. And of course, most bribery occurs in paying taxes, in the public procurement system, where we are in the 41st place in Slovenia, this is said to be deep below the average. And for bribery in borrowing credits, where we're in 47th place. These are information that the opposition did not invent. The data that are listed in the material that we are considering today. So corruption is a big problem. And if I do not just think about it, I would like to show you where we are and how this national programme or resolution is supposed to come to an end in one of the cases that has not been specifically highlighted or discussed at these extraordinary meetings on corruption. This is an example of food and credit services in Slovenia. You know that new initiatives, new initiatives on nutrition, have also taken place through Slovenian independence. At that time, we also adopted a law on banking, which - and of course on food and credit services in 1991 - laid the groundwork for the operation of these services and failed to establish that the Bank of Slovenia or the State is a guarantor of nutritional roles. Food deposit guarantee. And so until 2000, when the law came into force, the new Banking Act, which was adopted in 1999 and which was taken away from the guarantee, was adopted, of course, and adopted a certain deadline for adapting the savings and credit services to recapitalise themselves to submit to some stricter criteria in order to ensure the security of the savings deposits themselves. The then government, in which Mr Rop, as Minister of Labour, was also a minister, adopted or proposed that this adjustment time of the savings and credit services should be one year. It is said that in one year these services should provide a different guarantee of deposit. But a guarantee, of course, that ensures the safety of the savers. For reasons unknown to us, however, government parties have adopted a five-year coordination period. Thus, for 5 years the savers were without any guarantee of their roles. And it is only now that it has expired or when a series of bankruptcys of these food and credit services have taken place and the savers have remained empty, that we have seen why this 5-year deadline has been adopted. Therefore, gentlemen, in order to enable these savings banks to play their nutritional roles peacefully during this time, these applications did not guarantee this by investing in the economy, but the funds of these deposits disappeared to an unknown place. And after the end of that period, when they could quietly, uncontrollablely, rob savers, of course, they went to bankruptcy. And it's a whole range of nutrients: Kranjska food-credit service, Sicura, Soča, etc. You know that. The Bank of Slovenia was legally obliged to monitor and monitor food and credit services. And she knew about the mannequin, but she never warned the savers or the public or asked the national council to do anything about it. I don't know why she stared at both eyes and acted vaguely and didn't protect the citizens. Whether it is a friendly relationship between the Governor or those responsible in the Bank of Slovenia and the owners of the food and credit services, I do not know. But he is suspicious, because the political definition of these actors is known. Certainly, the state has left the savers alone, and they are empty-handed. Gentlemen! The legislative branch of power here has failed the citizens and, in fact, the citizens have in fact fallen into an unconstitutional state, into some unjust state of mercy and abjectness of the owners of food services. The record of the Credit and Credit Board of Sicura states - this record is dated 10 February 2003 - that the data on Sicura's computer has been completely erased. It also contains a statement by the manager, the bankruptcy manager, that the police, I will read that long before the judgment year 2002, when Sicura went to bankruptcy, knew about the incompetence in Sicura and wanted to intervene in 2001, but it was stopped. It was not until December 2002 that the court issued a permit for the investigation, after which significant house investigations took place at 19 locations across Slovenia, with criminals coming across mostly empty areas without any useful documentation and, of course, deleted computers. Therefore, not only did the Bank of Slovenia cancel, the law enforcement, prosecution and the judiciary also cancelled. They let the thing, that the main criminals could somehow clean themselves up, clean their profits, hide their documents, and so on. And when we speak, of course, in this case, of our resolutions on the prevention of corruption, then we ask ourselves how we will act. The resolution states that it is necessary at all levels that the legislative branch of power must do its part. That the executive branch of power must do its part, the judiciary, the prosecution and also the public and the media. But what if this follows what we fear will continue, namely, that if he stays the way he is, there will still be a cracking legislation, deliberately cracking legislation that prosecutors will not act in a timely manner. Yes, even the President, the current president of the anti-corruption commission has certainly proved to be extremely good at detecting, persecuting or listening to journalists who dare to clear up corruption. But we don't know if he'll have the courage to step on corruption itself. Nor am I talking about the Constitutional Court and the Court, which is supposed to play an extremely important role in preventing corruption. The Act, adopted in 1999, on nutrition and credit services and included a five-year transitional period in which he left the savers unprotected and thus caused a serious legal void, a severe legal void, in violation of the principle of the social and security state, the social and legal state enshrined in the Constitution. This flaw, which has caused such damage, has not been debated by the Constitutional Court, will not be discussed, although it has been called upon to do so. Nor will it likely require direct decisions to protect these savers. No, no, no. However, according to the Constitutional Court, the law on foreigners, where the Constitutional Court reacted quickly, reacted directly, demanded the issue of decisions directly, because of the legal void, and it proved to be very active there. The only mistake was that in this case, in the case of savers, they were Slovenian citizens. And if, of course, we are talking about how to approach how to implement these principles, which are stated, how to realize - and are very well mentioned - what must be done by policy, legislation, state administration, what institutions must do, what must also be done by the public, detection authorities, prosecutions, trials - very nice, very nice, if, of course, will be the will. But we're afraid, at least I'm afraid that the will of these institutions, which now represent these functions, is not and is only to be expected. If the Government wishes to demonstrate its goodwill in accordance with this resolution, then it should appoint a person for the Attorney General, for whom it does not matter, whether the party is fully competent by the ruling party, but for whom it is important, to give critical and decisive, and in this case probably even better that it is not linked in any way to the ruling party. If the government wishes to demonstrate its goodwill, it should rewind the supervisory councils in those companies where the state is the majority owner; it should suspend hermetically closed information on the operation between the administrations and the supervisory councils, i.e. a system that completely shuts down the regulation of public finances or finances in enterprises owned by the majority of the country. If the government wants to prove its goodwill, however, once it has responded to the budgetary control commission's demands, it will implement a constitutional provision which states that the government must report on the state of state property on a regular basis every year - but once it has done so, so that the National Assembly and the opposition will also know what our national assets are, what is the share of individual companies, where the co-owner state or majority owner is, and what has happened to this property in the past year. Every year, the Commission draws attention to this failure to implement the constitutional provision by the government, and every year it is a bob against the wall. Once again, I do not think it is expected that this government would prove its goodwill. We do not expect this because it all shows that its carriers are also part of this corrupt network, that they are part of the connected people and that they are somehow caught in clientism and corruption relations; not all but the key actors of the current Slovenian policy. I don't think this government is going to be able to dig out of this captivity, and it's probably going to have to be helped by the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u25	It's got magic in it. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! A further explanation of the resolution on the prevention of corruption stressed that the resolution is a fundamental strategic document and that corruption should be aware of its apolitical nature. I agree with that. For the fundamental objective, which, however, is to create an appropriate high level of anti-corruption culture at the personal and general social level, will only allow us to achieve what we call zero tolerance for corruption. But if zero tolerance for corruption is really a component of every view, then we probably won't be asking ourselves how quickly someone reacts to what corruption is done if those not exactly from my political option are involved. But I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. Indeed, in order to successfully implement the resolution, in addition to involving state authorities and legal persons in the private and non-governmental sectors, civil society must also ensure that all citizens are adequately prepared to participate actively in the implementation of this document. Therefore, the applicant in the introduction wrote down the important role of civil society, although it was previously possible to hear that she did not do so. The third chapter, which defines the provisions of the resolution, also highlights the cooperation of the public, private and civil society sectors. However, I intend to focus my attention on chapter six, where there is talk about preventing and suppressing corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. And here in Chapter E, where there is talk about non-governmental organisations, it is about civil society, which has been envisaged for 18 legislative, institutional and practical measures, that is to say more than one-tenth of all the measures envisaged by this resolution. Of course, I can put myself in a situation and at the beginning I say, everything that is written is empty, but it seems to me that then it is pointless to discuss and accept anything if the basic position is such. And I believe that much of what is written can be realized. And I am convinced of this, after all, by the experience that one of the legislative measures has already been seen in the procedures so far. If I look only at point E1/1, Analysis of the rules on the organisation and functioning of all national authorities with a view to detecting the possibility of actively including relevant parts of civil society in the disciplinary procedures of these bodies, then I must say that at least one law that we have adopted is recalled where this has been achieved. Let's say the law on police, and there's a law on access to information of a public nature, and there's one thing that could be quite specific about where such things can be detected. It is simple to hear that a frequent call was made available. The will is necessary, I agree, and the will is bound to realize that something can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you. John Sponik has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I would like to touch once again on some of the segments of this resolution which, according to my assessment, require further attention. I would first touch on Chapter 7 - International cooperation in the field of corruption. It is mentioned by the United Nations and is the following text: "Slovenia will have to ratify the already signed Convention against International Organized Crime with the relevant three Protocols adopted in Palermo in 2000 and after the adoption of the Convention against Corruption in 2003, as the only binding global legal text in this area will have to be signed and ratified by our country." Yes, as soon as possible, I'm in. Of course, I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues if you may not know what this means when we ratify it. Indeed, this Convention also requires States parties to enable the confiscation and return of all assets acquired in a corrupt manner. We will finally have an internationally binding legal form so that when we prove to someone in a court of law that he acted corruptly, we will also be able to seize the property. This also means, for example, property acquired in privatisation procedures, not on the basis of private investment, but on the basis of the privileged position of individuals and it can also be corrupt on the basis of certain other provisions and definitions. In order for such assets to be seized, this is a very important conclusion. And of course, the initiative to proceed as a country as soon as possible to ratify this very important international act. Another issue that is related to UN texts is the question, I have also seen in the report of the working body, that it is actually unusual that this document - and, of course, not everything in it is bad that there will be no misunderstanding, not everything in it is bad - but in some areas, unfortunately, our assessment of the measure in the wrong direction. This document does not contain a clear indication of the most common areas of corruption, which we do not have written in the document. In fact, the UN has put forward here a good proposal on what is generally included among crimes with potential corrupt backgrounds, which form of conduct and list them, such as blackmail, is fraud elsewhere, and here they highlight bankruptcy fraud, credit fraud, insurance fraud and tax fraud. All of these cases are unfortunately concrete in Slovenia. They then refer to abuse, trafficking in influence and access to information, issuing official and commercial secrecy, misuse of trust, breach of responsibility, abandoning prescribed procedures or preventing official proceedings, lies and fraud, false accusation, false reports, as if to speak of Slovenian practice, bribery. Here it should be pointed out that this document would nevertheless contain clear indications, as this UN guidance - these are the so-called guidelines adopted at the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders a few years ago - mentions, distinguishes the active and passive bribery of domestic individuals and groups with powers in public administration and the active and passive bribery of foreign individuals and groups, the active and passive bribery of domestic and foreign officials in international organisations. After Slovenia's entry into the European Union, this is still a topical area. It refers to counterfeiting, income laundering, embezzlement, extortion, speculation and as a last resort. Regrettably, the text itself will not provide concrete data or specific indications of the most common areas of corruption. As soon as I have been critical on behalf of the parliamentary group on how to move forward, it is necessary to mention the direction or procedural solution that follows: the resolution is adopted by the National Assembly, the action plan for the anti-corruption commission, data on the implementation of the resolution will be collected by this Commission and reports on the implementation of the resolution will be drawn up by the operators of the individual actions to be recorded in the Action Plan. Then there's the procedure. Here are the hands, six months, twelve months. So, after six months of adoption of the resolution, a specific action plan for the implementation of the resolution will be adopted. Then they will be married, periodically every twelve months and so on, and the National Assembly will also adopt these reports. I wonder whether this dynamic and this way of work will have a positive effect, that there will be some direction, as proposed by one of the experts who proposed the next path for a strategy to prevent corruption. He said, "they're theoretical and practical models." I would have taken them here briefly because I think they are very specific and I would have had them in Slovenia, I am sure, very good feedback, better would have been than what was written in this resolution, but it was published in UNESCO. I said that once in this place at a very late hour. There are four procedures, the so-called concrete solution or strategy to prevent corruption. First, "First, he catches the big fish. Leaders involved in corruption must be publicly appointed and punished before part of the cynical public has expressed the view that anti-corruption efforts are simply an empty phrase or perhaps just a campaign against a political opponent. It is therefore very important that the first large fish comes from a party in power." That's the first step. Step two: "Start administrative reforms in a positive way and help public officials with this. Particular attention shall be paid to working with officials and to identifying organisational criteria and ways in which you will measure success. And then connect part of their reward with the results achieved. It is pointless to ask public servants to fight corruption if they cannot earn even decent wages in a fair manner and on a regular basis." Step three, very important: "After you catch some big fish, step away from the investigation of the past and focus on prevention." And the last step is, "Have a strategy. Having a strategy means creating clear objectives and means in the short, medium and long term." And then we're done. [[there is this text on the strategy longer]] However, this text is linked to the hands that are written in the last part of the strategy: "The government that sets itself up to fight corruption needs success in the first six months. If it doesn't reach it in the first six months, it won't reach it in the next three and a half years." I think this is a very important proposal, which is written and proposed by an expert who is internationally applied. But as for the theoretical proposal, it says that in theory there is a rough formula, what corruption is: "The sum of monopolies plus discretion minus responsibility. Monopolies, whether public or private, make it possible for certain goods, services and services to be paid a higher price for which we receive less. Discretion means that an official has the power to agree to something or not, to determine how much or what he is not bound by, limit clear rules and restrictions. And what is the lack of responsibility? This means that transactions are carried out in a way that is not transparent and does not take place in front of the public." Therefore, here is the proposal: 'anti-corruption efforts must be directed towards preventing any private or public monopolies'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich gets his word. He's quitting. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, Fellow Member and Members! Winston Churchill once said, "When you don't want to do anything, set up a commission." And it seems to me that with us this adoption of similar laws and resolutions is also going in this direction. When we do not want to do anything, Members on a proposal from the government are comforted by the fact that we have adopted such a law, such a resolution, but I am thinking on my own, you can have very good laws, you can have resolutions, you can have written down all the tasks that everyone has to do if you do not implement them, then all of this does not mean anything. However, what I consider to be very lacking in this resolution is that, in addition to all the provisions listed above, the laws that will have to be adopted against all the tasks mentioned in this resolution are missing from this resolution. This is the prevention of corruption based on education. It is education that can encourage people not to use it. For no law helps you if people think and think that what they have done is in fact wrong, that they do it in faith, as if they have done nothing wrong. But since a person has a conscience and thanks to God, even in this way different from other types of mammals, they could do much or even the most in this direction, at this very moment, in education to values and of course playing the game of conscience. Unfortunately, however, this is not sufficiently highlighted in this document. I didn't find that raising our youth to these values was actually not written anywhere. However, I would not like to go too far in this regard, because we could discuss this very widely and perhaps also lead us politically into the opposite, misinterpretation of what I am trying to say. It seems to me that the fundamental condition for preventing corruption, in addition to, of course, training for values, in addition to stressing this, is certainly the division of power in democracy. If that is not the case, then we are in a situation as we are when, in fact, the same political option has been in power for so long and after so many years, it notes that, in fact, corruption is not in such alarming numbers, then it states that it is the highest among the current members of the European Union, and so on, according to the statements, according to the surveys people themselves say, corruption is a problem and, of course, must be dealt with. The fundamental deficit of democracy is, of course, that if the government somehow persists through various forms and it does not come to this that this will be replaced and that this will also prevent all those things that we have talked about without repeating them at a recent meeting when we talked about clientism and corruption. And our problem, the problem of Slovenian transitional corruption, is actually that. Now here, although we have achieved something in the opposition, this small number, this is all being passed on to Parliament in a way that is essentially not anymore. We have requested and I think that this was a perfectly legitimate requirement for supervisory committees to be drawn up in accordance with the principle of proposers - of course, we are all talking about experts here. Without the opposition proposing its members regardless of their professional qualifications. For man must be an expert and an honest man at the same time. For nothing helps him if he works in a responsible place, but he is a great honest man and is not an expert; vice versa, he is even worse - if he is a great expert, but he is not an honest man. It is said that it must unite within itself if it is to act as supervisory boards, especially when it comes to state-owned public undertakings. This, of course, has not happened in us, this ruling coalition has not always wanted to enforce, virtually the opposite, you have increasingly exercised this power through putting your people in the most responsible places and that is why corruption is also on the rise, and that is why we need to talk about it in this way. The second problem referred to in this resolution is the independent media. I can't get past the Friday case here. Otherwise, as promised by the President of Parliament, we will consider this - and I hope - at the next meeting, at the July session. However, look at this case until Friday is investigated and if it is not fully investigated, it is impossible to talk about independent media in Slovenia. I just think that this idea of independent media will be completely buried if this case is not investigated, because who else will hope to inform the Slovenian public about all forms of corruption, such as journalist Friday. And we've been looking into some of this in the investigative committee. Two years and more have passed, we have not moved, except of course, that now those who are supposed to have committed this act are in custody, but of course we have not approached the goal that was also intended; so to say, explore who the contracting authorities are. For if only the executioners are condemned in the end, of course this is not the solution to this case. And look, we've been kind of at the same point for two years, there's been a lot of mistakes in this case, more of course talk about this at the July session, just something I'd like to say on this occasion. When the attack on journalist Petko took place, it was not at the moment where the act occurred, nor the investigating judge, nor the prosecutor. When the assassination of presidential candidate Ivan Kramberger occurred, all of this happened at the same time as should have been done in the case of Friday. The case of Kramberger was also explained to the public on the same evening and investigated. And so the state with its institutions should always act. Or you're saying that independent media needs to be provided. I can go through, I have already discussed this in this House, through our opposition great pain, when we can read these public opinion polls sent by the government to the public by Mr Toš. So they're all, and I'm not going to repeat it, you can create your own impression and the picture that they were, and what they're going to be like until autumn. This is also part of, I could say, political corruption, which, of course, generates all other forms of corruption. Furthermore, here in this document, this resolution mentions what civil society should do. As long as civil society is paid for most of the budget, as long as, of course, it has to hold back the government and state institutions, rather than look at them under their fingertips, because the way of financing is wrong, until then, of course, this civil society cannot and will not play its part. We have proposed a solution when discussing tax legislation that people themselves could devote one part of their income for different purposes, but even that 3% share was reduced to 2%, so that even this field of influence was shrinking but not increasing. Before me, of course, it was mentioned, and I can't get past the way Slovenian courts work. Until the cases are concluded, as long as the Minister speaks of the fact that Slovenia's national sport is actually being sued, she did not ask what the courts are contributing to this, then of course we cannot say that there have been any changes. Only the last case I got on the table last night can I mention. A gentleman came to me, and he brought me the judgment of the court to determine the public use of the road. They didn't want to write him in court about the width of the road he could use. Sam demanded that they write three feet [3.5 m], and the court said that a passage with a larger agricultural machine must be ensured. And it's also a form of corruption that the court doesn't want to write something that's measurable, which is unequivocal, but it writes "a larger agricultural machine." And this larger agricultural machine can be for someone 3 meters, for someone it can be a bigger combine, which is four meters, and of course this is now a case that has been going on in court for several years. And even though he had his own advocate, it may seem ridiculous, but these are the problems that trouble our citizens every day, when they do the courts in such a way that I do not mention the judgments the prosecutors are making in court. Other state institutions, inspections, tax administrations and so on would not mention, but it seems to me many times, at least the things I receive as a Member, that these services are still under-qualified and that they make many mistakes in their work and that these mistakes are then the generator of all these judicial proceedings, which are truly too numerous. Then, of course, we are at the summit, which is said by Parliament itself in the government itself. Here I would like to point out on this occasion that this Parliament has adopted many laws past business regulations, somehow acting on the rules of procedure, that these laws - many times it has appeared at the beginning - are holes and, of course, we have helped ourselves, as a Parliament, to help generate some kind of corruption of citizens and citizens. And just to wrap it up, because I'm running out of time, given that other colleagues have something to say. Government, for the last time, I am here to speak to the Minister - I will mention again; Minister Gaber, Minister of Education, passed the laws, did not give his consent on his appointment as principal. You have already heard, but it is good that, once again, she did not give consent without explanation, even though she had the support of a secret vote in the teaching assembly and that she had the support of the world. Yeah, let him fix it! Let him admit his mistake and correct it, if not, but this same government cannot say that it will prevent corruption if it is one of the fundamental forms where corruption itself causes it! This is one form of political corruption when the Minister does not agree and does not explain why. I'd like you, Mr President, to give them your word after they've come. I'll finish. The measures listed on page 55 are: inter alia, it is necessary to amend electoral legislation in order to be transparent in financing political parties; I think it is transparent; only matters such as the appearance of a la Kacin and so on should be resolved, but not placed under a table and then said that the law should be amended. It's a good marriage. It's just not implemented. You say it is necessary to separate the mayor's position from that of the MP. We are all for this in New Slovenia. The law on local self-government - it is written down, you have a majority, but you have not implemented the law and brought it to life through parliament because you do not want it. To conclude, it is said that it is typical of some form of political corruption when, with a resolution, the sun appears in the mud water and says, "Look, they don't see it." That is to say, things will have to be implemented, not new and new rules are being adopted and there is always talk, but now that we have this regulation, it will be different. It won't be different if we keep doing the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor for his debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u32	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. All the debates we hear from opposition colleagues today, of course, confirm the thought that a person would not really like to believe. This is the idea that someone is very perversely able to abuse efforts to fight corruption to get into power. Why do I think that? I am listening closely to the debate and the only concrete contribution of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this important regulation is this: they want us to adopt it. Due to the lack of political will and the long-standing rule of one political option, corruption in the Republic of Slovenia has expanded significantly in recent years, and all branches of government, thus becoming a major social evil that strongly inhibits the development of the economy and undermines the fundamental values of civil society, etc. This is a concrete contribution to this policy option. This is therefore the desire of anti-corruption fighters to be incorporated into this important regulation. However, with respect, corruption is really too serious a problem for all societies on this earth, too serious for anyone to really abuse to come to power. You have not heard a lot of warnings that last almost all the years when we have adopted legislation in this area that it is the policy's duty to unify at this point, to adopt appropriate legislation, with control mechanisms and with trained services with corrupt phenomena, of course you are right to face them first and then to eliminate them by means of measures. Of course, only after the courts have carried out the evidentiary procedure in accordance with the procedures envisaged and carried out shall they impose appropriate penalties. And you must recognise that we have placed the relevant legislation on the agenda of government parties during our term of office, now the Commission, on the agenda of its policies, both the anti-corruption law and now the anti-corruption strategy against corruption and the fight against economic crime, strengthening the services, strengthening the teams that are supposed to face and fight these. We are really trying to make the services we have to fight this phenomenon difficult - we all know - to be trained, sufficiently qualified and successful in this fight. Unfortunately, this unity falls to the point that I am allowing myself to say now and to assess that the way to combat alleged corruption, as you are leading it, is not only inappropriate for this type of struggle, but is extremely harmful in the social space. It's harmful because you're trying to create a look and show the situation the wrong way. You've decided to divide Slovenia at some social moment and say "stolen yours, ours are fair. You share the means because you have authority, so yours have, because you only share yours." But it doesn't mean anything to you when the Minister of Economic Affairs explains ten times and again that 300, 400, 500 companies that are legitimately running on calls to encourage economic development, which, by the way, is not the best, but a good and country helps in this development - no! Re-abuse this session today and claim that ours are getting. You say, "all the affairs that happen in Slovenia are yours, all the thieves are yours, you've been in power too long." This is this new connotation, which is being scaled up by the final onset. "There are your personnel everywhere, it's all connected and so, because you've been ruling for a long time, everyone in this society has been vamped, everyone who works in the official institutions, it's all ours, it's all connected, everyone's stealing..." And so you tell people the following, which I say is more than harmful. You tell them that "anyone who acts corruptly in Slovenia will do nothing if he hides himself in a political party," you say, "the ruling political party; there you can sin and nothing happens to you." After these long discussions, these allegations were inappropriate in your work, because you have managed to politically discredit successful Slovenian companies, including successful individuals, you have even reached the top athletes who are few, but are trying to present our country and promote it through sport. However, this is particularly harmful in this part when you say, "who joins a political party, nothing happens to him even if he breaks the law." You tell people that even that little trust they have in political parties - but the political parties are in Slovenian space more - they lose it. Democracy is now built on the work of political parties and on the necessity of some way of trusting people and thus in the belief that we are doing things in, as far as possible, public good. And this mistrust with these messages of yours is more than greatly strengthened. This may be a tending pre-election message. You know for yourself that the pure and one truth is not. You don't believe that either, because in some part you relativize it. So what is the key problem of corruption today, this moment in the Republic of Slovenia? In my opinion, the problem in Slovenia is the unanimity of political parties and the total politicisation of the fight against corruption. Your amendment, which I have previously read, which you are proposing as the only measure necessary for this resolution, is the last confirmation of my thinking as I follow up on this debate from morning to late at night. You have not proposed any concrete action, so how to improve the law today, to improve the resolution; and this with one well-known, but for the Slovenian society extremely selfish purpose: to use this dangerous social phenomenon to win elections. And so, your project, the project of opposition parties to fight corruption in the Slovenian space, has a very transparent title: win in the autumn elections. It is legitimate, respected colleagues, but do you not see how harmful this is for Slovenian social space. You said today that you do not otherwise say that one party may be guilty of all corruption, but the ruling of this party by the very definition of corruption. And in these six months, you have succeeded in creating an extraordinary situation, because you have invested all your energy in the fight for power and not in the fight against corruption. This is of no interest to you, and it really shows your behavior, when you care very little about cleaning up your own kind with corruption, in the types of your political option, which is also little, even though you are not in a ruling position today. Why do you protect yours and publicly never condemn any delinquency in the conduct of your important political man? I didn't hear it! You know well that "ours" and "yours" and a lot of people come in this country, like everywhere else, to the cross with the law. Therefore, respectable, it is unacceptable that the fight against corruption, which should be a firm commitment of all political parties, who, as has already been said today, must be apolitical, unifying voice, must be such that the Slovenians and Slovenians, who perceive these phenomena to the authorities and cooperate in order to eradicate this phenomenon in our society. But for six months, you've really been using this exclusively for pre-election purposes. And there is no worse service in the fight against corruption, that you have been mixing serious corruption cases and fabricated corruption cases for six months and ascribed to the politicians of the rulers, and then washing your hands and asking people, today there have been five calls from your kind to finally elect honest policies in this country in the autumn elections for God's will. Such conduct, respected, can be politically even successful. However, no sincere purpose can be attributed to him, no contribution to the fight against corruption, nor do you, of course, have. By this amendment you have tabled, you are actually calling upon people to act with the title: people, fight against the rulers. But don't tell them and don't make an amendment that would say, "People, please report the acts that bear the elements of corruption." No! No! Your message is: deal with the long-standing rule of one political option. This is it. This is it. This is it. There's something else I'd like to tell you before I'm done. With such a half-year story you offer a very dangerous model of simplifying democracy, which in political theories represents a big step back in the development of society and is certainly not going forward. Why? You do not offer in this generous offer, except the fight against us, the corrupt, any guidance for the better construction of society and its rule. Not a single one! After half a year of all your discussions, I am eager to wait for something that would suggest this - nothing, just discredit! So you are offering the idea of fighting the leading political parties - right. But for social and political decision-making, your simplified ideas are unsettling, but they are extremely dangerous. Ascension, especially the ascension to victory, is an emotion that we can especially associate with this kind of title of calls to democracy - but how can such an ascension be constructive? Not only are your ideas simplified, but feelings and feelings can make it difficult for you to develop permanent and legitimate institutions.In this space you have managed to incorporate a democratic demonology that leads to the thought that only one fight is so important that it has to sacrifice all other things and values, it is a struggle for power that you show as a struggle against the privileges of those who rule. Indeed, respected, such a struggle for power is a perverse abuse of the efforts of the rulings to really succeed, even a desire with you, to fight corruption in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of his colleague Jerovšek. Replica, Comrade Sok, I don't think she's been able to talk you out of it. No, no, that's not the reason. We've said that a lot. That's a controversy. You'll have your chance next, we've already taken it. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me first thank you. I sincerely thank you for Mrs Pavlinič's previous performance, because I have not heard such a thing since the previous regime. What she was saying, and the words "perspicuous abuse" and "the way to fight corruption is extremely harmful to this work as the opposition." Then "more than harmful" and so on - it is true, for your customers the way - the fight against corruption is more than harmful. This has been demonstrated by Sunday's elections, which have shown so clearly and transparently that all Slovenia has realized that, with the help of this strong fight against corruption, which we have taken recently, there have been certain lessons in society and, of course, Mrs Krebsova, I know that you are suffering from a result in Ravna. I've seen the terrible rise of our party, the rise of voices in our party - percentage. And your downfall. Of course, this is painful and you are declaring the tragedy of Slovenia: that this is the most damaging, that such events happen, that such societies tend to be such a result of elections. It's so good of you to perform like that! I think yours has also sparked a terrible nostalgia for the former socialist era, as you have also said that the key problem is the fight against the corruption of political parties. Where in the world are the political parties united in the problem of corruption? Where in the world does the opposition not point to corruption? Even in those countries where it's not, because it's practically the lowest. Tell me - where? And, of course, this unanimity of political parties! This is this nostalgia for the socialist relationship, where so-called pluralism of self-government interests - everything combined, there can be told everything that we have been convinced of forever, but not without talking about bad things, not outside. And look, you touched on our key amendment, of course; in the introduction, of course, it sums up only what the officials, including your governments, who have started to engage in this problem, made public statements and made public remarks. On purpose, we have only written down what these officials, which of course you have eliminated and because of such statements and such knowledge, have withdrawn from your position. Indeed, Mr Penko, when preparing this resolution and the anti-corruption law, stated that the long-standing rule of one political party is the greatest, best basis for the development of corruption, that it is a micellium, a base, a substance; what corruption is growing. And of course, I find it completely politically unsustainable to compare the Slovenian model with the Scandinavian model, where purely different social values, the political culture is completely on the second level. In the last 12 years, the current government has not built or sought to improve political culture in this country. The standards of political culture have been severely disrupted, and they have been greatly reduced. And the very problem of lack of political will, which this resolution refers to as a key issue in the successful fight against corruption, is the country's biggest problem. Lack of political will! But these cases line up from day to day! How can you say that there is a political will to fight corruption? Do you think that you have submitted a resolution on the fight against corruption, now, for pre-election reasons, two sessions before the end of your term of office, to the National Assembly?Why did you not submit it at the beginning of your term of office? Why did you not build on the law and the measures you know how to make them based on the resolution? 172 measures are listed, but some of these measures are literally anti-thesis, and I agree with them, but the practice that you are carrying out in power is the antithesis of these measures. And I come back again; you cannot compare Slovenia with Scandinavia, you cannot, and this is politically distasteful, because in Slovenia, as already mentioned, the presence of corruption syndrome is the same as in all the transition countries that emerged from the former communist regimes. See, as usual, Vietnamese post-war syndrome, there's also corruption syndrome. In fact, people no longer see, see and are not sensitive, but this strategy is the only measure that is not foreseen, but there is no action to improve this sensitivity of people through education, education and so on. See whether it is political will that in this matter, which is, in fact, in this mandate, a key political issue against corruption, it is said, that the Zámník Commission, in the case of an attack on journalist Petko, who, with his articles where he attacked corruption, caused them to want to kill. And that this commission has made a significant contribution to starting up in the judiciary, in the prosecution's office, something to move so that the police can become operational. Now, however, government, positional Members request and vote that this report be closed to the public. Is that political will? Instead of having the political will to dissect every sentence in this report in a public session, people should be educated to know what is related, what financial oligarchic efforts are connected here - violations of the rules, for example, how much money can be laid on banks, then these permits and all that has come in between, which is all related, these are classic corruption cases. And then what happened. Mr Zammernik himself stated in an interview that he could not say because he would have been convicted, such as the Member of Praise. He must not say much because you are not interested in the fight against corruption in Parliament, so that the Member can speak for a speaker and therefore will not be convicted. In our country, however, they are convicted of draconian punishments because the Member spoke of corruption. Last but not least, is it the political will to fight corruption that we tried to vote yesterday - this Lahovnikov, the minister's call for public funds in the field of tourism, where it is already determined who will receive the funds? For 60% of Slovenian regions and regions, however, they cannot take part in this invitation to tender. Is this not the most drastic example of corruption? And when Comrade Drobnic suggested that we hold a general debate on this because of an unsatisfactory response, of course you voted against it. And these cases, when we suggested something to open up here, they keep repeating themselves, and you're always against it. Furthermore, on page 61 it is beautifully written, with what measures, in detail: "An anti-corruption analysis of established practices in the public financial field, in particular in the field of public procurement..." and so on. That is correct, but when a parliamentary body does this analysis, the Bayuk Commission proposes a conclusion - you have rejected it. And Mr Bajuk stepped down in protest - the only option he had. It further states: "Consistent implementation of the prohibition of the participation of public servants in management bodies, the exercise of supervision in companies." Yes, practice is an antidote to what is stated here. And you're saying that this opposition has not proposed anything. How many times have we suggested that in the supervisory councils they be able to control themselves, not just to name their clientele! [[Back-up advertising.]] What kind of experts?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u35	Don't mess with the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u36	Yes, experts, such, as you please. And on Monday, Mr Rop asked a specific question, "Have you changed your position on whether you changed this matter for a millimeter?" he did not want to answer, he avoided the answer. Then, when we passed the Anti-Corruption Act, we proposed that there should be a substantial expansion in the range of debtors who provide all the information about their financial situation and then are monitored by the Commission - you refused. And this is political will for you in this area! See, in section "General public" when these measures state that there is a need to increase anti-corruption awareness, in fact, in the section on media. And in spite of everything that stands here, and in spite of everything, these things are repeated by Mr Anderlich and Mrs Irma Krebs, when Mr Anderlich says, "We will not allow the fight against corruption in this House to go forward." It reminded me of what he once said: "There is no god who would force us to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court." It's this determination and that there's some social evil here, that's what this is all about. But, Mr Anderlič, I tell you that these words and this interpretation and this thought are in direct contravention of what we have also adopted at the Conference of Parliaments of the Council, the 85th Parliaments, in Canada with the participation of Mr Jakić at this global conference of parliaments to fight corruption of the GOPC. There they said - the conclusions of the conference, in direct contrast to what you are saying - parliaments are obliged to fight with all means against corruption because it is the greatest social evil. That is why full, public work in Parliament - as many television broadcasts as possible - is needed. Ask Mr Jakič if this was how the conclusions were made. To ask as many questions as possible, to turn parliamentary issues into a general debate. Our Rules of Procedure do not allow us to extend it to the position of the Government on which the general debate would take place. Government statement. This is what all other parliaments have - where the level of corruption is significantly lower. But you are totally for other principles, a second action and mark through the public also the media, that this is something unheard of to talk about corruption in Parliament. This has even been seized in public in the first meeting that the debate on corruption does not belong to Parliament. Despite the fact that all the parliaments of the Council at the conference accept that this is the primary, literally primary activity of parliaments. You're telling me to do this on the investigative boards, and then as a cylindrical, hit the conclusions of the investigative commission the next day. Yeah, is that political will? When it comes to corruption with your political strength you achieve that this debate is in the morning when people can't watch. Is this the political will to fight corruption? So again at the end. I particularly thank Mrs Pavlinič, because - Mr Potrč, as a prominent political "leaf" did not last, he had to go out because the grimas would betray him at her performance. I am glad that she has performed this way and I assure you that then, in your opinion, we will continue to act 'injurious' because we will fight corruption, this is our duty. But I am concerned that no political party is immune to corruption, especially if it comes to power and therefore I consistently claim that I fought corruption in the company, they wanted to buy me many times - it would be worth a lot of money. I have always fought corruption as a politician, even if we are in power, I will fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u37	Two replicas. First of all, colleague Anderlič, who did not participate in the debate at all, and there was no reason for you to mention him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u38	In his manner, Mr Jerovšek misused the microphone to slander him. I did not touch him in any statement, nor could he replicate me; for I did not misquote him, because he had not discussed before. The fact is, I didn't talk about television broadcasts, I didn't talk about Parliament not discussing it. But I have spoken of that it is necessary for every institution in this system in this country to do its own thing: its own parliament, its own justice, to rule its own. To hint at anything else is to tease, swindle, not to say it's a lie. That is why I expect Mr Jerovšek to look at the magnetogram of my discussions, to look at his own, and to finally apologize to those who are not obliged to listen to such lies, not just me. Care to make a resolution aimed at enforcing the law in the fight against corruption is ours, both yours and ours, and this right will not be taken away from us by Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u39	Colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Just two repairs. Dear Mr Jerovšek, the Equal Policy Option LDS and DeSUS have not lost far, so this is the wrong statement. Under two. In the case of my fellow journalist Friday, people will not be educated. These institutions of this country will do their utmost to ensure that both those who have done the past and those who have ordered it are closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u41	Peace, in the hall. There's no dispute in the bench. Comrade Jerovšek, you have a replica. This is the last time I give you my word. If there's a problem, I'll take the word away from you. You can only explain the wrong views. Peace in the hall, or I'll interrupt the debate. If there is no interruption of the debate in the benches, I will adjourn the debate in the Chamber. Comrade Jerovšek, just to clarify the incorrect arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u42	My colleague Anderlich. Not only am I going to look at a magnetogram, I have this habit of writing down your statements, but others I'm going to replicate. And I am writing, "We will not agree that the National Assembly will take over the role of what, the Commission of Inquiry and so on," and I have talked about this to talk about corruption on your further statements. And I protested it. And, Mrs. Krebs, you also say the public couldn't learn on Friday's case. Yeah, on what?Oh, my God! On what?Oh, my God! Look, here is the core of what Pat Cox said yesterday - a lack of civic education in these countries. And you are always against civic education, which would also include sensitivity to the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u43	The explanations were given. We continue the debate, in order of order, colleague Weber has the floor, no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. A definitive removal of corruption is not possible, but it is possible to continuously prevent all the emerging forms that lead to corruption. This is probably one of the absolute truths. However, I am of the opinion that the biggest problem or problem that needs to be carefully analysed is the relationship between the public and the private sector. And if this relationship were to be well cleared, perhaps we could also monitor and act very effectively in the fight against corruption. In this effective action, I believe that we should also very clearly define priorities and then adopt a future plan and monitor the implementation, implementation of these priorities and adapt accordingly to the circumstances arising from these data. Well, I believe that this material before us today, i.e. the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, does not speak precisely enough about this relationship between the private and public sectors and does not have sufficiently clearly highlighted or recorded priorities. In fact, I have noticed that somehow the applicant has classified both the private and public sector relations and the relations within the public sector itself into the same category of problems. I am referring to the relationship between the government and the local government. I do not know, my opinion is that there is certainly no problem of corruption between the public and local administrations at a level such as the private sector and the public sector. And I miss this analysis in this paper, as far as concrete measures and targets are concerned. Otherwise, my findings are reinforced by the fact that in area D in this material in the economy we can read that the solutions are entirely left to the private sector. If we look at area B, state administration, we can track the text "the state administration is the one where the state wins or loses the war on corruption". Well, and if we look at area A, the policy, it notes that the principle of power-sharing needs to be introduced. However, in this division of power, there is a very clear division between the public administration and the local administration, and there is a vague interference with the division of the private and public sectors, as it provides for the transfer of public powers to the private sector, which I think should be monitored in particular. I therefore believe that this is a lack of this resolution and should be clarified further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much, colleague Weber. Comrade Rokavec, now you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable President of the Commission. I believe that we are managing this action by adopting a resolution on prevention and the fight against corruption in our country too late or in the wrong order. Of course, the political will clearly expressed in the light of the resolution adopted should first be clearly expressed and, of course, legislation prepared on the basis of the resolution adopted. The resolution probably came to be of greater interest at this time, given that nothing or very little has been done at the time of the adoption of the law and that, of course, elections are approaching, of course, to prepare a nice pamphlet by the government, where it will also express the government's interest in preventing and eliminating corruption in our country. That's too bad because it's the wrong approach. Of course, the wrong approaches in our country were a whole series. I can look into the case of SIB Bank, where, of course, the application came from the municipal or city board of SDS Ljubljana, but of course the prosecution has not done anything for a year. Of course, at the time, the Attorney General, of course the current Justice Minister, said that only the minutes had come when we were looking at the law, and that article 147 made it clear that the complaint was filed with the competent State prosecutor in writing or orally. Thus, if the minutes were to come, this would be a clear and clear suspicion of the irregularity which, of course, the State Prosecutor must begin to investigate under his authority. In fact, the third paragraph of this same 147 clearly states: "If an action is brought before a court, an internal affairs authority or an improper state prosecutor, it shall adopt it and immediately send it to the competent state prosecutor." So nothing has been done unwittingly or consciously in this case. We know what the whole framework of the whole story and the problem, which is then connected to Orion, was created in this case. We can also see in the Sigma affair, here went the awesome billions, the country is the majority owner - in this case, of course, through its institutions, nothing has been done. The president of the administration was, of course, rewarded with an even better job. Also in the case of, say, the IUV. It is known that certain members of the administration had so-called their own companies, using their position to operate through the Vrhnika leather industry. Nothing happened. I have put forward a proposal for a question. I have not received a satisfactory answer to the question of the Member State of departure by the competent minister. He just said he'd try to check these findings, never denied them, I'm sure he did. The majority in the National Assembly voted against this issue being discussed in the National Assembly. I could be giving you a whole bunch of problems, but - what's the key problem? The key problem is that in this country, the habit of members of the Supervisory Boards in public companies whose founder is a country or in which it is owned by a majority must be explicitly run and set up by political people. There is an explicit lack of objective and comprehensive control, where necessary, including the opposition. I believe that this is the place for the spread of corruption in our country and in the law we have adopted - but we do know that in the supervisory boards of public enterprises, who: sitting or secretary of state, vice-secretaries, senior civil servants, officials. These anti-corruption laws are not mentioned anywhere. At the time of the adoption of the law, I drew attention to this danger, to this trap, where the rule alone says that the second or third league in the ministries is the most operational, and, of course, in the execution of individual projects it can also be very operational or subject to the incidents of corruption, but this is not in our law, nor is it in this resolution. And if we do not go in this direction, that in the law itself we will pursue only officials, even those officials in some municipal councils, when the saints there receive a monthly award for work in the municipal world of five or ten thousand and that he will, of course, have to give a report to the commission, as it is written, then we went absolutely in the wrong direction. We should be heading in the direction of looking for big fish. The very definition of a successful fight against corruption speaks of the need to first catch the "big fish" if you want to be successful in a particular case, but in our case, the search for the "chicken thieves" is based also on the law, which is written as it is. And until this nonsense is eliminated in the law itself, I believe that this country will continue fighting corruption in this vicious circle, but there will be no success and a successful fight against corruption. One more thing. I was already at the last session, when the talk on corruption and political clientism was once again given its opinion on the issue in the judiciary. The lack of political will for Slovenia to compensate for what it has done too quickly, of course, with a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, that it has, of course, allowed a permanent mandate, but not introduced so-called experimental periods, is the so-called democratic deficit - a democratic deficit in the judiciary. In fact, when someone of 27 or 28 years of age, 30, is given a permanent term, it's easy, he gets all the stone hanging over him, not to be subjected to his so-called performance and verification for at least the first five years. Not on the political side, but on the part of the institutions in the judiciary. This is the practice of most European countries, but there is no political will for us to do so. Of course, at the beginning of this year, it showed that consensus would also take place in this direction, then the United List withdrew from this proposal, then, of course, the LDS, and normally there is no possibility of positive changes in this area as well. And what are the possible solutions? In my opinion, the resolution is as good as it is, but still needs to be supplemented. It needs to be complemented in this sense that in fact, in the fight against corruption, we will truly engage in the fight and the search for "big fish", which have, of course, exceeded their rules of the game. In this case, I believe that this country can be successful, so I am convinced that not only are the officials who can be "big fish", but they are "big fish", or in a practical sense can anyone else, besides the officials, so it is necessary to supplement the resolution and also to supplement the legislation. In this way, I am convinced that there will be a more successful fight against corruption: the public at work and effective control of the opposition as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. My friend's not here. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Director of the Bureau! The man is pleased that this resolution has come to us, after many years of course. It is also our anti-corruption strategy to somehow take place in different passages: first the law, now the resolution, third the action plan. You'd ask yourself, yeah, when do we get started? Okay, I'll ask you that. How did we come to be somehow focused on corruption after all these years of government so-called success stories? We know very well that today it has already been mentioned that various international organisations, both the EU and the United Nations, have adopted certain decisions or guidelines on corruption, and it seems like we have heard this for the first time. In fact, if this government wanted to do anything useful in this direction, it could use some experience and then put them into practice in our public. The other thing is that. Here we have a whole litany - a man would almost call them Lithuanians - Mr Ropa, who indicate a number of measures that will need to be taken. But who will do this, and what has been done so far? If a person looked at what was wrong and what needed to be fixed, I would say - yes, where have we been all these years? We can conclude that this horse has already escaped from our stables, and 10 years ago, he began to retreat. Our legal service has well established that the resolution has no legal obligation and has therefore somehow recommended that citizens be encouraged to go in this direction. It also says that non-compliance will be the political responsibility of ministers and so on. I would like to know on what basis this will be done. On the other hand, we can also say that we have never heard anyone here in this House, at least not me, unless I was deaf, a minister who would admit any error. They're all untouchable and they stay so. The other thing is that. One of the party's leaders' gentlemen advocated that Parliament has nothing to do with corruption research and so on. Well, if a person lives in Slovenia alone and knows the congregation system, it may be true, but large countries that have traditional democracy are doing just that, and they are doing it honestly, but we wouldn't do it. I don't know if it's in our conscience or our rules or anything that we can't do. But I agree with one thing. All the research commissions from the beginning of this Parliament until today, except for one, have not been able to issue a report. Why? Because there was a blockade on the coalition government's side. And that in itself says something about corruption in our country. There is further talk of less corruption, on the other hand we say it is extremely widespread, etc. However, I would be interested to know that in addition to those statistics that tell us how many cases there were to be, so we would be told if any such case had been resolved before a court of law and that someone had gone to prison. We don't know that! Let me say that this resolution is interesting, but it seems to me that it is somehow similar to the on-the-spot and that we could call it "exercise infantility" - in English. It is also true that those who drafted the resolution did not have good eyesight, nor did they have hearing. It is a whole range of corruption or the direction in which Slovenia is experiencing itself, but it does not mean that they do not think that these may be corrupt acts or conflicts of interest. You probably won't agree with me, but you will. I'll count them. I've talked about this before in this hall. I think the government hired when it made proposals to change the constitution, legal counsellors, "the whole paradise", and some of these legal advisers agreed without each other to be hired by the National Assembly. If this isn't a case of conflict of interest and corruption, then I don't know what. And to this day, none of these gentlemen have confirmed in writing that this was not a conflict of interest. Then ask yourself if this applies to legal professionals and what others do. Then, at the Ministry, the Secretary of State, who is responsible for the service of the fighting forces on the other hand, was killed in genocide after the war. Isn't this a matter of conflict of interest and corruption? Then, a disgraceful grave marriage. Isn't this a unique case of corruption? The lies are in there, the relatives are written off, etc. etc. [[The ad from the bench.]] Would you mind telling me out loud what the gentleman wants? Well, then there was, there was a false appointment of victims, a ten-year complete oppression of relatives, a commission for hidden graves was a farce, and it was just protecting the country somehow from coming to the country and to the government this "onus" came. And the government insists on falsified history, using state finances to celebrate some of these events and so on. Isn't that corruption? And then, finally, something else -- the government's unwillingness to set up a commission to try objectively, to the extent possible, to find out the facts of occupation, resistance, the communist revolution, civil war and post-war killings. All of this is purposefully hidden. Finally, something that is mentioned here in here - that the opposition cannot get any control place in state-owned companies. And there's a whole bunch of them, they're all intertwined, and there's a conflict of interest. Well, this resolution also speaks of civil society. I think it's just a simple joke. If you look at the state of civil society in our country, you will see that it is very few. Those who are are, of course, on the government's blacklist, but they're still in the government's pocket. One of the sentences here is how this civil society will have control over the functioning of the country. Yes, please! This government is not capable of allowing civil society to operate. I have learned two things since I came back to Slovenia: nothing happens in this country by accident; secondly, the government has not suffered any activity without control, large or small, and this is particularly true for civil society. If anyone can tell me another case, I will be very happy. And another thing that's not in here either - that the state should make sure that all these professional organisations, lawyers, notaries, auditors, etc. that have today absolutely, as I would say, self-regulation to expand this is a monopoly. And all over the world, there's civil society, the state, and so on, because the wolf will never eat another wolf. As a lawyer, I can say that. Well, then you're talking about anti-corruption content that's supposed to be ready for students. Well, here it is very interesting what these contents are and what are the values, although this word is difficult to find in this text. What does that mean, what values? I only know one list of values in a negative sense, and that's criminal law. That won't do much good. In any case, it's an interesting reading. I want a lot of success. The horse has escaped from the barn and now try to do something. It is very interesting, however, that we accept this before the elections, and it is also a source of wealth that the EU will start to see what we are doing in this area. It seems to me that this falsification, if I may say so, will not succeed in working against corruption. And I would also like to say that if the same coalition wins as it is now in the government, we will probably forget all three stages of the fight against corruption. But I want happiness because it would be bad if nothing were to be done against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. My friend Franz Lenko has a word if he wants to. [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Gez Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would agree that the issues surrounding the individual unpleasant stories that are taking place in this country are not going in the right direction and are not being resolved in the right time. However, the ways of dealing with such matters as we are experiencing here today seem wrong and do not solve the problem, nor do we talk much about matters on the agenda. It is mainly a matter of squeezing, discrediting and attempting to move problems into Parliament and allow Members to take over the functions of the authorities that have been called upon to do so, and this story seems terrifying to me. At the same time, it is clear that those who are "yours" are guilty and those who are "ours" are political structures against them. And it's a story that moves back in the old days, and I've experienced it, and most of you don't remember what it looked like. And in this Chamber, in some term, I experienced, when one of my colleagues said, we criticised the period 1945-1950, after the independence, and after the creation of the country we tried to do the same. And I think things are going this way. What do I mean? One is that "yours" are guilty even if they're not guilty and "ours" are not guilty, even if they're guilty. We come at a time when someone remembers, points to someone, you're guilty, you're a bastard, you're corrupt, and you have to defend yourself, prove you're not guilty, and the procedures run, the cameras buzz. Yesterday, we had a chance to see on TV a story that someone with an anonymity accused someone of buying a car at a troubled company and automatically became a culprit. And if this man is a government official, he'll have to prove that he's not guilty, and we all know what's coming next. We've had a few cases before that when some people are appointed, there's a matter on the scale where they're going to lean. And if he had more anonymities, he had less options. There was a similar story with Mr. Kos sitting here. There was a little bit of a weight shift on the other side and I wouldn't be sitting here today. And by taking on the role of the police, prosecutors and even so far as to discuss from day to day in extraordinary sessions and vote whether someone is guilty or not guilty. Where's that going? What country do we live in? Here we had the opportunity to decide whether a Member is guilty or not, that is to say, to discuss and decide. Parliament would take over all the roles of all the authorities in this country. I'm sorry to use the term, but I've been experiencing those times, 1945/1950, Stalin's times when they did that. And it's getting scary for me when my colleagues here are talking about how we're going to take over, how we're going to make decisions, how we're going to talk about it day after day, and we're going to show it, Juban, Anderlich, it's their fault, and some of the others in their society can't do it and they can't do it. It's no wonder that all of them are full of Parliament, our stories, and they're not going to the elections. Discretions go on forever and one is no longer able to defend itself and, of course, the way in which repressive authorities operate to receive every "goat" for each anonymity and fall heads at the expense of anonymouss. And, of course, the desire for Members to be able to get on and on forever. Where's that going? Because one of the MPs said that you were stealing, you were cheating, and of course they proved that it wasn't his fault, and an MP is going to court, and now it's a disaster in this country. Or are we Members all-powerful, but we can do everything, accuse everyone, discredit everyone, without having any evidence for this - then the country is going in the wrong direction to say again where the tangible evidence is, but of course let's go as fast as possible and get rid of it and get rid of those people where they belong. But this is not the way we picked him up in this country. What promise do we have if these methods really prevail in order to gain power and authority, what would happen? Would it be what they warned us about here, what I said at the beginning? We are criticising the period of the former Yugoslavia, but we are doing the same. Apparently that's why Demos fell apart, so they said here, and of course these debates are worrying me, not good, and it's not what we want here to save everyone. The problem is that the system starts to work on a variety of discredits, anonymities, and that each of us can have a story tomorrow, an affair, to be publicly condemned for what you're not guilty of, and defend yourself - I don't know how long. Lustration law was exactly what it was meant to be, to give the opportunity of marriage to point to someone, so long as you're politically dead until you prove you're not guilty, time and life are running in between, and, of course, you'll never wash yourself to the end. On the other hand, we have already prepared civil initiatives, octopuses, uba.net stories where we have tried to discredit individuals, how they are corrupt, corrupt and, of course, eliminate political opponents. This is supposed to be our democracy. And of course then I also hope to say out loud that this Parliament cannot and must not solve this matter in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. So, I understand that someone's worried, just probably from the wrong angle. I agree that it is probably not possible to make accusations on average, even on the basis of some anonymities that are probably not good. As for the anonymous one, I would like to remind you right away in the beginning, for example, of the example that you opened and that you opened "the spirit of the bottle". A specific example of Brigadier Krkovich. Your political option, because she wanted to get rid of it, because it was among the first singles to organize a war for Slovenia, so that we were prepared, you wanted to get rid of it and you discredited it by having it with some tiles anyway. All the trial mills have been grinding for years and years, but to this day you couldn't prove that he did anything wrong, but it was the other way around. And you wanted to discredit him, not now, tell us some stories about someone threatening you. You did this to others, you were talking about some kind of discredit in some town along the border with Italy. And that's how it happened then, so let's just leave it at the side, no one's been able to tell you anything. But there's something else I want to say. Political corruption was mentioned today. If what was mentioned today, among other things, occurred on Monday, the peak reached yesterday, and today apparently continues. This is a law on coherent regional development. We were here on Monday at about this hour of the day. There was a minister in charge of this law for regional development, and she did not mention that we should not take this law off the agenda. [[Back-up advertising.]] I'll connect, connect, don't worry, don't worry, I know what I'm saying. She didn't say a word about defending this marriage. In the opposition, we argued that this law was not well taken off the agenda. Yesterday, however, it was a strange coincidence that this government and this minister were protesting the most, but in relation to what he said by his colleague Jerovšek - that tenders other than invitations to tender in connection with the development of the tourism economy were already distributed in advance so that virtually no real invitations were needed. Then it is clear why we took it from the agenda - we had to take it from the agenda - this law, because then we should have a call, but not that the minister should have already determined in advance which companies will get something. This is an example, if that's true; I'm speaking hypothetically if that's true. But a lot of it is true, you can't deny it, because yesterday you also defended yourself in front of the cameras, why this thing went like that - then it's political corruption. Then it's political corruption. Part one, I know it's real, but part two, I said it's hypothetical, because I don't know if those funds are already split. However, given that there have been such terrible restrictions that only certain parts of Slovenia can run there and others cannot, then, if we connect together, this is the case. And in the opposition we also warned on Monday that this would probably not be good, but it is, of course, a bob against the wall. Now you're telling us we're threatening you. I don't remember you being threatened. But what everyone's signing up for is maybe we're just interdicting, and we're not gonna tell you that we're threatening you. Then deal with those reporters who opened it. And I think it's right that they've opened up, and probably they've already explored something, only the law enforcement agencies do nothing or leave it in the closet, forget to sign the judgment or change the law, that things are out of date. Gentlemen, let's ask ourselves! Let's put it all together! And there's usually a way for us to conclude: we can only deal with this because it doesn't fall directly into this, this is another segment. And we live our whole lives in segments and all the segments are wonderfully "streaking" us, we are the best in Europe, the first in Europe. But life isn't in segments, life is in total. Then let's find out that things don't really "sleep" us. And the government writes for itself that there are problems in the area of corruption - I will not use another term - there are problems, but you would like to say that this is not the case. And if we want to discuss anything, then it is said, but this does not belong to this segment, which belongs to those other segments, we will deal with that tomorrow, or the next month or the next term. But life is complete. Life is complete and must be treated as such. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague, Maja Zupan. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then Shirtz's colleague has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u54	I would like to take a look at some of the discussions, the words spoken today a few hours ago. Mr Drobnic said that only the opposition claims that corruption is a problem in Slovenia. It is not true, dear colleagues, all of us, all the debaters, both those who discussed the last five in the morning and those who are discussing today and who have discussed it earlier, or we have found that corruption is a problem, no one denies it. Nor is it true that opposition parties would push this issue and treat it as a positional issue. The difference between the approach of one and the other, the brief position and the opposition, is only that the position is looking for solutions, and in the end this resolution is a solution - one of the solutions. We have already adopted a number of them: from anti-corruption law, anti-corruption strategy, strategies to suppress economic crime, all of which are solutions that will slowly, of course, unspectacularly give results in the coming years or months when the anti-corruption commission, the police and the prosecution will bring them to life. In short, if on one side of the position is looking for solutions to reduce corruption, if it is not possible to completely eliminate it, which is something that we all agree with, from those who carry bottles to a doctor or coffee to those who have sisters, to those who face problems in one way or another, but perhaps in ways. On the other hand, the opposition is looking for ways to talk about corruption. For speaking is, and we all see it today, and for the last time, the only goal of the fight against power, but not the fight against corruption in this case. In short, the government is preparing a strategy, and you say that corruption will end when you win the elections, not when the strategy is implemented. What does Mr. Bayuk say? That the resolution will not harm anyone, nor will it benefit anyone, as if there is nothing on the table today, as if there are no measures both at the legislative, institutional and practical level and with very detailed rules written down. In short, Mr Sugar says that the resolution - already, but if it is not willing, it is a political will, no, it does not help. And what is the political will of Mr. Tsukati? Overwinding government species and replacing them with people coming from another political option. Moreover, the Member calls for the appointment of a specific name, i.e. political recruitment, at least as is the case, or I have understood the order that was made today from the benches, as if there were no other mechanisms precisely defined and precise decision-making processes. Is it not, however, that it is the discrimination of people who today have just one more certificate: whether they are left or right, they cannot be the other. What, then, is the salt of such a debate in the politicization of issues where real imaginary problems are mixed, where even victims of postwar beatings are victims of corruption? According to Sok, they're supposed to put people in responsible positions in public companies who are honest people, experts and who would be "theirs". In short, whether they're not honest people or experts - they can only be "theirs". Is it because now there should be only "ours", i.e. dishonests, unexperts, now I wonder: is Mr Ivo Svetina, who is the director of the theatre museum, and is not "ours" and not "yours", is he an honest man or is he not an honest man and is not an expert? Is Mr. Rokavina, for example, a thief then, an amateur? These are people in public functions who are obviously only "ours" and "yours". Of course, I know that these people thank God this kind of discussion doesn't matter, and they don't care about the heart either, but why don't every once in a while wonder what he'll see if he even wants to run for anything. Sok further believes that civil society cannot do its job because it is being paid by the government. Civil society is financed around the world by state budgets, of course with strong aid, often by majority, private capital. But private capital in Slovenia will no longer be willing to co-finance any society, nor an institution, nor a civilian, because it will be afraid that each of its sponsors or donors will be subject to insinuation of corruption. And civil society is a parallel mechanism for the establishment of democracy, which is why governments support it. In short, since everything that has been said has been repeated today and has already been answered, it is only for me to see and see the year that all that the opposition can do is readjust. But you don't have your own suggestions, you don't have solutions, you don't have the will; in short, you also say that this paper we have on the table is just an empty paper that's not going to be implemented anyway. All you have is the political will to call for discredit and restore the government. Of course, this cannot be a way to solve and solve problems, it can only be the establishment of political will and desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. Let's move on to the debate. A colleague of Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. From these performances is actually a fear, a fear of whether anyone would really look at the hearts of certain institutions and, of course, control as it would be necessary. Of course, I am deeply convinced that this resolution is completely irrelevant, which is being considered today, that it is actually more for corruption to continue. And, according to you, of course: let corruption live, because, from this we are fed and from this we live, some truly. I'll be very specific. The Coalition of Slovenia and, of course, some reasonable people have already demanded something concrete about two years ago, writing down six specific points that should be accepted as a common goal of fighting corruption, but you have been vehemently rejecting, rejecting and, of course, making it impossible. Even today, this is one of those who talks about transfers, but when you allow it, when you don't, you block the passage through your instruments and you don't allow transmissions to see and know what's really going on. Let's move on. Colleagues and colleagues, I agree that there has been a long problem of black construction in Slovenia and that this problem is not being solved. Remember just a little while ago, when we had an interpellation against Minister Janez Kopač, who also confessed, it was proven, it was said that he was a blacksmith, but that it had been repaired at the time, so that, of course, they completed documents, spatial acts and so on, that he legalized the matter - and I don't tell him anything, it did. But, colleagues and colleagues, because he is a minister, because he is a member of a leading political party or because he is only human because he is "someone". If that were the case, of course hundreds of cases in this country would have been resolved as necessary. There's probably nothing you can do, but there's a lot you can do. And I am deeply convinced that the only laboratory that international experts are going to give results through which innovations are carried out and recognised in the world - today is the largest black construction in this Slovenia! I don't know if it's possible to regulate this thing, to regulate it, and at the time that they're running, when court proceedings are open, you're back, of course, because it's not "right" because it's not the one who has to be allowed to -- those who have the authority -- shut down the entire airspace over this space and it's supposed to be "bomb" at night -- in the notebooks to bomb -- break it because they've already tried it. Let's move on. When we addressed the damage to social property, we found out and adopted a decision on the Commission. Is it not also part of political corruption that you have mostly prevented these conclusions and facts from being discussed in the National Assembly and should be defined in this regard? I don't know how we would define that Judge Šubic acted in accordance with the law. In this resolution, you wrote that, I will not talk about percentages, it is a concept. As a term, we understand every violation, every form of conduct, both services and abandonments. For his prize, he received a recommendation from the Trial Chamber that he did his work conscientiously and so on. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, they're waiting for us against, probably, two such recommendations from the D.A.'s office, where they're going to write for Mr. Fischer's prosecutor that he was great, even though we remember a little back that he had an employee of his girlfriend or I don't know what it's called, the woman wasn't, but someone who lives with him also a private life, without conditions. Tomorrow the same will probably get a recommendation from the D.A.'s Chamber for doing his job well, for him to be able to become a lawyer, for now as a lawyer he will probably defend those 146 economic criminal cases that, of course, have not been resolved or that have remained in his closet and, of course, are now falling out as dead. Look, someone's been talking about what Members want to be. No, ladies and gentlemen! What exactly does the opposition want? That he has white paper, that he doesn't have facts, etc. That's not true! See, the opposition wants a problem that is, with arguments, and then, of course, I would expect, and in a normal country, we would expect the authorities to do their job. And what's the story? Yeah, they don't do anything. Things are running so long that they get old. In the case of Elan, they have aged from one institution to another some 20 years, and they are obsolete. In the worst cases when the judgment was delivered, the policy changed the law, the criminal code and the law on criminal proceedings, that the case was obsolete within nine months and that the matter was over again. So, this is, colleagues and colleagues, political corruption. Among other things, it is when the Court of Auditors finds and writes a report. Remember only the reports of the Court of Auditors of the Ministry of Defence when Mr Jelko Kacin was Minister of Defence. And then what happened? Nothing. Remember the Court of Auditors' report on the sale of human rights when it said that the state had paid half a billion more. Has anyone filed a complaint against the gentleman, the then and current minister? Nobody's ever done anything. So, the problem is that institutions in this country have not been working for 10 years and that's why this corruption is living, so it has a strong basis and you know, the only guarantee, the only guarantee in the world, is that in democracy, power is changing, but it's not, of course, that a ten-year-old or 20-year-old would -- whoever would have been for so long, would probably have succumbed to these temptations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u57	My friend Brenčič is not here, Dr. Bajuk is not. Comrade Badness, you want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Among other things, our opposition has demanded that after the 12 years of LDS rule, the moment has finally come for the opposition. In the Netherlands, for 80 years, Christian Democrats were in power, but there was nothing wrong with them. Your friends went bankrupt in Italy, and they were 50 years old, and no one was disgusted. And after 12 years, you think we just have to cry and cry because of your beautiful eyes. When we talk about morality and these things, who is the biggest "jack", as far as this is concerned, in this Parliament and in Slovenia as a whole? Your great leader! Where are the tens of millions of marks and dollars ending? Where is Jerovšek, who is the president of the security and intelligence services? The National Assembly ordered him to investigate cash traffic in arms trafficking. By law, you should have delivered the paper. He didn't deliver it. The mandate is expired, but Jerovšek is cut like "foolish". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u59	My friend Marshich. Some groups are running out of time, so you got your word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, President. I must say that as a member of the delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly, NATO has also met with evaluations from individual candidate countries in the past three years, and colleague Andrej Vizjak knows very well what they have written about Slovenia, especially in the area of corruption. In particular, Italian counterpart Minitti wrote in his report that Slovenia is the least corrupt country among candidates. My colleague Andrej probably remembers that we were both dissatisfied with this dictatorship at the time, because Andrej himself also explained that perhaps the "minimum corruption" would have to be somehow erased; I think that was a common position. This therefore surprises me, this duality, in fact, when colleagues from the SDS on the one hand say that we are the most corrupt country, they show a scale and so on, and on the other hand they agree that perhaps the "minimum corrupt" should be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u61	Comrade Visjak, you don't have time for a replica. I'll give you ten seconds for the replica and then I won't give you a chance to do anything for ten seconds, just for a brief explanation, nothing else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u62	I think it was a typical abuse of my name in this House. I haven't even heard from myself, but my distinguished fellow Member has challenged me. It's true, we read this dictatorship, and it's true that we didn't agree with it. However, it would be extremely unwise for the international public to identify and protest a record favourable to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u63	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u64	Even so, we agree. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you, Comrade Visac. Let's move on. My friend Mamić now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We're talking about corruption, but I have a feeling that we're actually moving away from this topic, in a way, of course, and we're throwing pollen under each other's feet one way or another. I'm going to talk about one thing that specifically stabbed me because I don't have that much time. For example, there was also talk of amendments. And I want to handle this thing. How many amendments have the opposition tabled in these four years, I don't know. I can, I'll say, 1,000 or 500. I don't know how much, well. How many have been accepted? In the opinion of the lady who spoke about this, it turns out that the opposition is making amendments just to give amendments, not to benefit the State. That's right. But there have also been such cases, for example, I will say in concrete terms. When it came to the maritime code, I put an amendment on the infrastructure committee and the members said, "No, no, it's not even an option, it's not good and it's not good." Mr. Yuri said, "I like this amendment. And I support him." And right away, they were all for my amendment going through. Because someone in the government coalition said the amendment was good. Wait, these are the facts! If Yuri hadn't said it, the amendment would have failed like everyone else. That's not funny. That would be sad. Of course, it's funny for you. It's sad for us. That's it. And then you don't have to talk about the opposition being like some pendant, a skyscraper, just talking, just getting ready for the election. And so on. Look, if we're preparing ourselves in this way for elections, and you're "knocking" us - excuse the expression, it's said that you're preparing for the same elections in the same way, you're getting political points. Yeah, that's right. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Excuse me? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u67	Don't talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u68	Actions? Let's leave the action. I'm talking about what's going on in the National Assembly. And then you can't claim that the opposition is what you say. Now, if there's anything, and if anything, he says, jump into the air right now: yes, the opposition is that again. What is a SIB bank? What was the opposition's fault about what was happening there? Is the opposition also responsible for, say, the insurance company and so on? And we know that there are so many things out there that I don't know when it's going to clear up. And before that, you're responsible for this as the opposition! Excuse me. Thank you very much. Because there's no time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u69	Two more will get the word. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic and colleague Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. We've heard a lot of words and heard a lot today. Corruption is mostly in all countries. I don't know a country where there wouldn't be corruption. However, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u71	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u72	We only have to fight two words. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u73	I'll give you 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you. It's a matter of authority to fight corruption. And the thing about the opposition is, that's what he's pointing out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u75	My friend Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u76	That corruption is a serious problem with us, it is only a fact that we have given it so much time. Not just today, but everything so far. We had quite extraordinary sessions that lasted late in the night. We also touch on it almost every month with a question from the Member States, and we have not last adopted a law on the prevention of corruption in plenary session. There is now a resolution on the prevention of corruption, or it would be logical to adopt a resolution to give guidance on what to write down in the law first. And then a law on the prevention of corruption is adopted, which should contain binding standards. However, our government often turns the matter upside down, so I am not surprised that it has broken it this time. However, we have before us a document containing a number of measures that could help address these causes and the conditions for corruption. And we could only help if we put these measures properly into our legislation. Just the record of these measures, the resolutions, and not the relevant laws, will not be enough. I am pleased that, among these measures, I have also found one which I have also drawn attention to at the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, namely the creation of rules for the protection of corruption applicants in the public authorities. With such rules, I hope, in cases of reporting corrupt acts, the so-called "witch hunt" will end, which has often occurred when it is sought, who has reported a corrupt act and why it has done so, rather than being sought if the application is justified. In practice, a public servant, due to a warning error and also to reporting illegal conduct in connection with the performance of public tasks, is often under various pressure. More than that; in some cases, instead of verifying the reality of these reported irregularities and eliminating them, the competent authorities shall investigate who has reported them and shall use extreme measures against the applicant, such as relocations or even terminations of working relationships. At the proposal of the Council of Europe, the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted three instruments regulating the protection of corruption applicants and should be respected by the current government. The first such document is a code of conduct for public officials, which in Article 12 governs the duty of the State to protect against the harassment of those public officials who declare illegality and criminal offences; the other two are a criminal and civil-law convention on corruption, which provides for the same duty in Article 22 or 9. If the government had respected those international commitments and regulated the area properly, the public would not have shaken the many corruption affairs that we are witnessing today. The resolution that we are adopting today is going in the right direction, and I hope that it will find its approval in the laws in this area, but I am sad that we have not adopted it much sooner or at least not before the adoption of the anti-corruption law, because we should be building the law on the basis of the resolution adopted, but not on the contrary, as we are doing in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u77	He wants to speak with a government representative, Under-Secretary-General. Mr. Kos, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. It is not enough time to respond to all that has been said today, but some basic things, problems, are only worth mentioning. In particular, I would like to continue right here where Mr Štemberger has stopped. The government tried to do things differently. If you look at the material you received when you have considered the proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption, you will see that the text of the resolution, which had a slightly different address at the time, is attached to this law. The government wanted to solve as many things as possible at the time, but because of the opinion of the legislature of the National Assembly, which clearly stated that the law must first be law, then the resolution, because the law provided the legal basis for the resolution, was then forced to repeat the whole process and went through the entire debate. As I mentioned earlier this morning, the government began its activities in 2001. The coordination that has been carried out for both civil society and the private sector has shown that this is an extremely demanding area and has also touched on those problems that have been highlighted many times today. For example, the activity or inactivity of civil society, the financing of civil society, relations between the public and private sectors, particularly those border areas. And as far as we could, we reached a consensus, tried to sort things out. But what we can't do is we'll try to answer in the next debates in the future. The main objective of the resolution, as drafted by the government, is exactly what you have been alerting today. It was about corruption syndrome, although I should say it is certainly a bit excessive to talk about the fact that corruption syndrome in Slovenia is the same as in other transition countries. We, for example, cannot compare with some Georgia. But anti-corruption culture, mentality and the like. The aim of the resolution is to change the individual and collective mentality of the Slovenians and Slovenes in this way, so that the very thought of corruption becomes repugnant to them, nothing will change. All the measures taken by this resolution are in this direction. The government is aware that the resolution is a political guidance document, but politics can be very principled but can be very concrete. And the government has decided to write in this document very concrete proposals for solutions for some simple reasons. If we have proposals, measures written down in very concrete terms, then it is very easy to assess their implementation. It is also very easy to write down the legal standards of a binding nature that will implement these political orientations. On the other hand, identification of those who implement these measures or this resolution will be very simple and very simple. The document does not attempt to assess, interpret and address corruption problems in any other way than it does in a reasonable way, and in the coming years it will be a test stone that will show whether Slovenian state institutions, economic enterprises and civil society institutions are able to act in a coordinated manner in the fight against corruption and prevention. And one more thing, and more importantly - do they even want it? It was said today, 'the horse has escaped from the stable', perhaps indeed, but the Slovenian government is convinced that this horse can still be caught and tamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u79	This concludes the debate on the motion for a resolution and brings me to the debate on the amendments tabled. We've got one. A colleague of Pec's wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u80	Your Honors are here! In my opinion, of course, this cross-accusation is the worst when government parties claim to know what the opposition is up to and, on the other hand, when the opposition knows what government parties are up to. And when, in addition to this kind of debate that has taken place in the last hours, two, three, but only in this area still interferes with the concept of elections, then it becomes real, at least in my opinion, such a debate on corruption is irrelevant and, of course, the green thread of the resolution is lost at least by law or in the final stage of the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The fact is that Slovenia has a bad law on preventing corruption. The emphasis was on bad marriage. The fact is that the resolution that we refer to as bad in the National Party will be given Slovenia today. It is also true that government policy or anti-corruption policy is governed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Taking into account all of us, we are well aware of the fact that we tried to talk about this at extraordinary meetings some time ago, and the fact that the vast majority in the National Assembly objected to a speech, a discussion, particularly a substantive discussion on corruption. And when they didn't get to talk about it, they just limited it to government parties, which was completely incomprehensible to me - both time constraints and content - we can really look at it, we can see that the talk about corruption is not in our country's best interests. That someone is trying to turn a blind eye in this form, that it is immoral to talk about the existence of corruption while we are getting impulses, let it be from international institutions that point us to the problem of the phenomenon and the growth of corruption in our society. We also get this same impulse within our country by the economists. And this same impulse is also given to this national assembly by individual offices, which are more or less connected to government policy. In the presentation speech of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Bogdan Barovic expressed the shortcomings of the existing resolution. He expressed his fear that the purpose of such a resolution was only to adopt another one of those sets of various empty strategies, with which we will use it before, I will use it again, I will wash my hands with elections and say, because we have only adopted both documents: the resolution and the law. Of course, we do not wonder about the content, for we do not care at this time. All we care about is the title of the resolution, the title of the law. And in my opinion, of course, this is the damage that the National Assembly is doing as one of the branches of power in our country. According to our assessment, if we would like to do so, we would have to take a decision on the unlimited powers of the Office, of course, not with an argument or an argument, but with short human rights; but if we want to be at the threshold, now that we are also full-fledged members of the EU, which is not so important, it is more important that we reduce corruption within our country, this national assembly should, with all the legal force, determine the office, namely, unlimited powers in their work. As long as the National Assembly does not really want to step on the fingertips of customerism, money laundering and corruption, we will not accept such a decision for as long as it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u81	I think that more or less time has run out for the debate, except for those parliamentary groups, yours is not among them, Comrade Jerovšek, who have a few more minutes available. Look, we're already in red numbers, except for the SLS and DeSUS Group. I'll close the debate. Excuse me? Do you want time to be divided yet, but about the amendment, "note bene"? Comrade Jerovšek, colleague Kremjar, colleague Rokavec, two minutes each. Comrade Kremjar, two minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u82	The amendment is very general, so I can say quite generally. I do not agree with such a dictatorship and I cannot support it because it basically speaks - and it is behind what we have been listening to here all the time - that the position is not that corruption is being debated, that the National Assembly is a place to discuss corruption. These are the ones you don't hold, according to my judgment. At this point, the National Assembly is doing what it should be doing: adopting a resolution on corruption, against corruption. And this must be done by the National Assembly. And today we should have a debate on the content of this resolution, how to improve it, how to write certain things down, and we are discussing everything else, but not that. And this is the work of the National Assembly. And when the law on corruption is passed, it is the work of the National Assembly to adopt the best possible law and to discuss how certain articles in the law need to be amended in order to make them better, to make this more effective. And this is the place, Parliament, to do these things. Everything else we want to do and what we're doing today is an eight-time thing that belongs somewhere else. And that's what we're trying to say all the time - things are getting mixed up. Parliament is no place to accuse one another [[End warning sign]] Who did more or less do something corrupt. And I will always stand up to it. For this we have organs that have to do this, and we need to have legislation I have a little more time? [[...]] Aya, it was just a pardon! [[...]] And we have legislation that must give this framework. And when we adopt this legislation when we amend this legislation, then it is a place in Parliament to talk about it. And there's room for that today. Unfortunately, we have talked about everything else, but at least about what this resolution should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u83	Comrade Jerovšek, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you. It is a fact that we all find that honest corruption in Slovenia is increasing, that it has multiplied in particular in recent years and that there is not yet the right means to fight corruption. In this amendment, we have only summed up what the official representatives of this country have found, that is to say that there is no political will in this country to fight real corruption and that the main basis for such an increase in corruption is that one political option has been in power for so long. That is what Mr Boštjan Penko, then Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, said and said. This is his official statement, which was not demented at the time, so I think you agreed deeply. A successful fight against corruption requires careful analysis. And in this amendment, this is exactly what the exact analysis is; without accurate analysis, without facts, without looking the truth in the eyes, I think it's impossible to fight corruption. Those who are not willing to look into the truth have no genuine will to fight corruption, nor will they fight. Let us say this to our public, if you think that these are non-truths, as the president of your party has said, about the growth of customerism in his client or in his ruling option, and if you are not prepared to look into his eyes, then we cannot support such a resolution, because this is no basis for fighting corruption if you are consciously looking into her eyes and telling her something third, which is not the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u85	A fellow Rockhead. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to complement my colleague Jerovsk. I'm going to make an explicit point about the amendment. The lack of political will shows that we only have a resolution today, instead of having it before the adoption process. Another time. In the case of SIB, the lack of political will was marked, of course, that the authorities responsible would also act on time. The lack of political will is also in the area of the necessary changes to the Constitution in the field of justice. It is also here because of interests, precisely because of the interests of a certain part of the judiciary, the ruling part, the key part in this Chamber, of course, has changed his mind. At first you were in favour of changing the constitution in this area, a trial period for judges, and then you resigned. The last part of this amendment speaks of the need for coordinated and decisive action by national authorities, as well as the awareness of the people of the dangerous consequences of corruption. Let us remember the first extraordinary meeting on corruption and clienteleism issues, of course, at the top of our society. There was no direct transmission by national television, but, of course, only the next day when other marriage projects were in place. All these indicators and guidelines show that there is still insufficient political will and I believe that it is more than appropriate for this to determine its place in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u87	Mr. Kos. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. Without going into whether the content of the amendment is real or not, the following must be said. If, in particular, the first sentence of this amendment were to be included in the text of the resolution, this would completely change the context and meaning of this document. The apolitical nature of the document would have been lost and the document would have been condemned to failure. Resolutions shall not be adopted until the first subsequent elections, nor shall they be adopted for the next term of office. The government hopes that the solution is a more durable document and we can imagine what would happen if each time we changed the connotation of this document. We can imagine, we can write things down, but in such a document it does not belong, so the government opposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u89	I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting tonight in the framework of the 20-hour vote. This concludes this agenda item. I predict the transition to point 12 - second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. This point will start in the next 10 minutes at 2.25 p.m. until then, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u90	Dear colleagues and I are moving on to 12. At the end of the day, on the other hand, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Karl Erjavac, who gives him the floor to further explain the bill. Please. You can go to the counter as usual if you turn off this microphone, please. Mr. Erjavec, can you turn it off here?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u91	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good day to all present. In short, I would like to explain the objectives of this amendment to the Law on Courts, the main objective being to increase the efficiency of the courts, and this is what we want to achieve in the following ways. We are introducing judicial assistants to relieve the judges of those cases that do not constitute a trial in a narrow sense, that is to say that they are burdened by non-judicial acts. This novel also increases the powers of the Ministry of Justice, so the Minister of Justice will have the opportunity to give a preliminary opinion on the criteria for the smallest amount of work of judges and will also set criteria for the number of courts. Then we also institutionalise the centre of education in the judiciary by means of this law. The analysis that we have jointly prepared by the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice shows that more attention will need to be paid in Slovenia to the education of both judges, prosecutors and staff working in judicial bodies. Then we also deal with the issue of an effective remedy against infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable time frame, and we must do so because of the European Convention on Human Rights and because of the European Court of Human Rights, which is expected of the countries which have signed this Convention to have an effective remedy against such violations in domestic law. We also then regulate the procedure for submitting a proposal to obtain a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Communities when it comes to the interpretation of the acts of the institutions of the European Union. This means that when a case is brought before a court, it may by decision put an end to the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and require the Court of Justice of the European Communities to obtain a decision interpreting the act of the institution of the European Union. Then we define an ad board in this novel. You probably know this problem that broke out a few months ago, when the public, the media couldn't find out when a certain hearing was going on, who the judges are, where the courts are, where the judicial hearing is taking place, because under the law on the protection of personal data it must be regulated by law, because this was not regulated by law, and the public could not reach this data. That is why we now define this billboard, where the exact number of the case to be dealt with, the date, the hour, the room where the hearing takes place, the judge to judge, and the parties. Of course, if this is not by special law, it is stipulated that the public is excluded. For example, when it comes to protecting the interests of minors. At the same time, with regard to the advertising board, let me say that we are also giving a legal basis that this notice board can also be published online, that is to say on the Internet. Then, in this novel, we also give the legal basis for the protection of the courts. Let me say that some of the events have occurred recently, that the Ministry of Justice has commissioned an analysis because it is a rather difficult professional question of how to provide adequate protection, not only as a facility, but also as a judge and other staff working in justice. Then in the paper we also regulate the issue of court management, which is where we have foreseen for the secretaries of the courts who usually carry out these work managements for the President of the Court, that the conditions of education are those which should ensure that these secretaries have the necessary knowledge that the manager needs today. These are, in particular, courts, knowledge from public finances, the implementation of calls for proposals, management of human resources and so on. Thus we now determine that he must have a high education, plus a master’s degree or specialization, or a high education in the legal or economic direction. So far, it has been considered that the secretaries were usually assigned either to judges or to professional colleagues of the court, which has proved not to be the best arrangement. At the same time, the novelty also means aligning with some other rules that have changed at the same time. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for your introductory explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Mag. Majda Potter will present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body at its 51st regular meeting on 26 May, which held a second hearing under the ordinary procedure, after the College of the President of the National Assembly rejected the hearing following an urgent procedure. In the supplementary explanation, the Government's representative first explained the reasons for the urgency procedure and then expressed the expectation that the proposed solutions would receive support because they were intended to increase the efficiency of the courts and eliminate judicial backlogs, which is a long-term process. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service sent comments to individual articles of the law. These were almost fully taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee, with the exception of the comment to Article 20, which will be taken into account in the proposal for a judicial service law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service specifically pointed to paragraphs 6, 9 and 20 of the draft law. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council Commission on the political system, which sees a good basis in the draft law for improving the situation in the judiciary. The representatives of the judiciary expressed their opposition to the proposed solutions in both written and oral opinions, but the key comments were taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. The representative of the Slovenian Judicial Society, while supporting the reasons for the refusal of the urgency procedure, mentioned three areas which should be regulated more appropriately. Opinion on the criteria laid down in Article 6 of the Law on the Physical Safety of Judges in Article 25 and on the education of judges in Article 26. A negative opinion on the draft law was also expressed by a representative of the Judicial Council and a representative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia discussed. For more details, see the Committee’s written report. In the longer debate, MEPs and Members were open to questions of judicial assistants, new powers of the Ministry of Justice, the role and position of the Judicial Council, the delaying of judicial proceedings, otherwise support was expressed for the law to increase efficiency in the judiciary, the participation of all actors and the link between theory and practice. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee adopted the amendments to Article 17. If I mention them, these are paragraphs 2, 6, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 22, 25, 26, 27, 35, 36, 37, 40 and 41 and adopted the text of the amended proposal of the Law on Courts. We propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first will receive the word Vojko Celigoj for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We have before us a new law that regulates the functioning of our courts. Each of us is ever in court for a reason or another. The reliability and up-to-dateness of each institution, which is also applicable to the court, depends on the organisation and competence and competence and flexibility of the staff. For the past decade, we have witnessed considerable backlogs in the courts in Slovenia. The reasons for the backlog are also clearly different from those of judges and judges who do not include their primary activities in the trial, but deal with matters that could be carried out by other staff at a lower level. All of this burdens the work of judges and reduces their ingenuity. The backlog and consequently inefficiencies cause dissatisfaction In this place it is necessary to add that there are also cases where the posts of judges are systematised but are not fully filled. So we see that change in this area is urgent and urgent. The only possibility in this situation is a systemic change and reorganisation of cases that will enable and relieve judges. In this regard, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we welcome the proposal for a law which provides for the introduction of a new profession in the courts, specially trained staff members of the judiciary, who will perform less difficult tasks, the so-called non-judicial work carried out so far by the judges. Such solutions are also known elsewhere in Europe, such as in Germany. In this way, we will also change the concept of the role of judge in the entire trial. The proposed possibility of using a remedy to protect the right to a trial within a reasonable time comes from the same story. We are convinced that it is necessary to ensure that people have a timely right to judicial protection and to enforce a supervisory appeal institute to better supervise the work of the court, and also to fulfil the constitutional right to decide the court without undue delay. We also agree that the Ministry of Justice should lay down minimum safety standards under the law, of course, subject to a thorough analysis of the security situation which would be the basis for issuing such a regulation. With regard to the provision of opportunities for permanent and comprehensive education for judicial staff, it is necessary to establish a specific institution providing quality and effective judicial apparatus with appropriate staff. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support the position and amendments adopted by the Internal Policy Committee, and we assess that the effectiveness of the judiciary is an important social issue, so such solutions that will contribute to the faster and more effective functioning of the judiciary are welcome. That is why we will also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Private Cheligoy. The LDS has a position to be presented by Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, in these four years, we have worked very hard in various ways to find ways to deal with judicial backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure that the trial is within a reasonable time. We were far from concerned about the fact that the International Court of Strasbourg has already granted compensation in the case of 50 applications, precisely because of the unreasonable length of time in which our courts are able to bring the matter to an end. Finally, there is no confidence in the rule of law if there is no judgment within a reasonable period of time, if there is no justice within a reasonable period and if five, ten or even more years have passed from the action or the indictment to the judgment. The Ombudsman's report, which he had also pointed out in his reports all these years, was the reason for the few meetings of the Internal Policy Committee, where we dealt with these issues. And we have set ourselves the goal of taking steps, within our powers and through the assistance of the responsible representatives of the judiciary, to remove the backlogs and thus allow the judges to judge within a reasonable time. There have been many of these measures, and last but not least, the reallocation of the financial resources directly to the items for remedying judicial backlogs, amending the rules. Here we followed fully the recommendations made by the professional public, namely, the independent judiciary of the authorities, how to help them solve all of this. One of these rules is also the regulation before us today, and in fact the result of efforts by the judiciary itself to create solutions that will allow them to judge within a reasonable time frame, taking into account best practice in the world, with a view to their own problems. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we fully join the solutions offered to us today and have already been thoroughly explained by the representative of the Ministry of Justice - the introduction of judicial assistants, the legal remedy for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time period, and the protection of the courts is an obligation to protect themselves by not being afraid to do their work. In addition, the Centre for Justice Education, as an institution intended only for this purpose, in the form proposed, will contribute to this objective that we are pursuing. However, it would be necessary to explain to the applicants when we say that a remedy for the protection of the right to a trial within a reasonable time is necessary in some way due to the European Convention on Human Rights to a reasonable period of time and to an effective remedy. In fact, here we refer mainly to international regulations that are intended to force us - I think that the legal remedy for the protection of the right to a trial within a reasonable time is primarily due to us, and therefore that tool, which gives more direct control to the users of the judiciary when they are trying to resolve their dispute or to reach their right. For these reasons, we will also be happy to support these changes in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much for this position. Rudolf Petan has the floor for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! There is a good and healthy comparison between the work of each authority or branch of authority. Until recently, we used to compare ourselves. That's as far as justice is concerned. Therefore, it is not unusual, there was a real storm in this branch of government following the publication of the report of the pre-accession German judge, Mr Doukoff, who was in Slovenia for two years, from 2001 to 2003. This German expert, who comes from practice and knows the standards of work, behaviour, organisation and evaluation, and this was the first example of a comparative examination of the judicial system, assuming the right to judicial protection within a reasonable period, which should have the nature of fundamental human rights in the Republic of Slovenia and is a constitutional category. In view of the fact that judicial proceedings take years and years to go by, in doing so, that many proceedings are obsolete, that convictions are not signed that the files lie in oblivion, that the files are lost, that the legislation is changed, that matters become obsolete, that a million and one excuse, why the matter cannot be dealt with, could be said that this is why human rights are constantly violated in Slovenia. Since there are several 100,000 cases, the writings could be said to be a mass phenomenon of human rights violations in the widest sense. You could even say that, as it were, every Slovenian has ever been harmed, and that almost every Slovenian is therefore deprived of his rights as enshrined in the Constitution. In this light is the incomprehensible reaction of our judicial system to the findings of a foreign expert. In this optics, the pump is totally incomprehensible because of human rights violations that have been erased - these are supposed to be 20,000 - and there are 500,000 cases in court. It also takes five years to wait for entry into the land book. So almost every Slovenian is in this bike, and we have never heard such concerns about human rights. Even more, those who point out these problems are accused of interfering with the independent judiciary. It should be imagined that the increase in backlogs is not due to the increased burden of the courts with more cases, but to the reduction of the efficiency of the courts and the efficiency of the judges. That's not our conclusion. This is the conclusion of an external foreign judge, and today he hopes to admit it and even write down our government in writing under this law. Even worse is the finding, including the government, that the number of cases resolved in the courts is no longer increasing in the last period. This follows - and this is also written by our government - that more and more judges are solving fewer cases with us than they were in 1990. All this calls for new measures, where necessary, to increase the efficiency of judges and courts as the only possible measure to remedy backlogs. And that's also a quote from the government's material. If the law before us helps to reduce the number of those whose human rights have been wronged, then the law must be adopted. Of course, if the law is enough to regulate the situation. The purpose of this law - that is what the proponents also say - and they expect to increase the effectiveness of the courts because of the law in order to ensure that the trial is within a reasonable period of time, which is human rights. The backlog is a violation of human rights. And if so, and so it is written in the constitution, we should ring all the bells in Slovenia at the moment. The proposers also expect to ensure the staffing, organisational and security conditions for the planning and work of the courts. The introduction of judicial assistants is also meant for this purpose. The applicants also expect the education of judges, judicial trainees, and we would add that law studies are likely to have to adapt to the situation. The plan is ambitious, but so far experience has shown that even good law is insufficient if there is no political will. Obviously, so far we have had bad marriages and nothing or very little political will of the ruling majority. In the U.S., we will support these changes with the desire to find political will in the authorities' structures to improve the situation and that there will be no more human rights violations due to judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you. Miran Potrč has the floor for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, quite frequent changes and additions to the Law on Courts have appeared to me to be two. That we have not yet provided all systemic solutions to ensure that the courts operate effectively enough in order to ensure that the principle of trial is implemented within a reasonable time frame, in order to eliminate the backlogs and restore to the courts the public confidence necessary for the successful implementation of the roles and responsibilities of the third autonomous branch of government. However, these frequent changes and additions to the law also point to the fact that in the courts, in the competent ministry and in the government, we also assess the situation in the judiciary, especially through a reasonable period of time and the abolition of delays in the courts and to take into account international practice, solutions in comparable systems, we propose solutions that would achieve those objectives to the greatest extent possible. We do not care what is happening in the courts and in practice and our common desire is to settle systemic issues so that the courts have the right conditions and that concrete behaviour is in line with the desired practice. It is both necessary and right to stress and evaluate realistically, as there is also too quickly an unwarranted picture of general inefficiency on the part of the functioning of justice. Worse still, an image of the conscious, irresponsible attitude of the judiciary towards the exercise of its function of trial and the deliberate admission of such a situation by the authorities in order to enable perpetrators of crimes to evade responsibility and fair punishment. I am convinced that it is not both true that our joint effort to create the conditions for the effective functioning of justice is also a proposed law. Its purpose and objective are, in the first place, to increase efficiency and accountability in the performance of the judicial function. This is what the law wants to ensure, in particular, by introducing new official posts in the courts, in order to ensure that judges are able to relieve themselves of cases that can be carried out equally qualitatively by judicial assistants and professional colleagues, thereby increasing the efficiency of the trial and trial within a reasonable time period, as well as by increasing the comparability of our organisation of courts with foreign courts, which is so readily carried out but without comparable data. This law seeks to ensure the greater responsibility of the judiciary in deciding on the election of judges, on the appointment and promotion of judges, on the classification in the pay grade, on the proposals for discharge, for which the assessment of possible mutual solidarity in judicial types is now envisaged for the validity of the decision by a two-thirds majority and no longer by a common majority of all members of the judiciary. This has also given us a substantial suggestion and a comment that experts have given us on constitutional changes in the judicial system. It is not yet true, therefore, that there would be any desire to reduce efficiency in this area. The obligation of the Council of Justice to adopt the criteria for the minimum expected success of the work of judges to which the Minister of Justice must give the previous opinion is reached. Clearer criteria and responsibility for the establishment of judicial posts in an individual court shall be laid down in order to ensure a high-quality trial within a reasonable period of time. Greater accountability and competence of the Presidents of the higher-level courts and the Minister shall be ensured in ensuring that the trial is delivered within a reasonable period of time, as well as the organisation and establishment of a centre for judicial education, and in order to ensure the security of the courts, thereby creating a basis for the quality work of judges. For all of this, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions deserve support and will help to improve the work of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Saša Peče has the floor for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u103	Your Honors are here! Allow me to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. One of the speakers in front of me found that the laws on judicial service and court laws were adopted as a current lane and that this was probably due to the displacement of the situation in our country and to the movement of the situation in the global or European market. The second explanation we have in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is that this national assembly adopts bad laws. After adopting a bad marriage, the government quickly finds that some part of the law needs to be changed. This time, the Law on Courts, which we are meeting in the National Assembly, is intended to pursue certain objectives, according to assurances from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, appear to be very beautiful and fantastic in the form of a rapporteur, about as beautiful as the words of the representatives of the sent groups before me. The first greater emphasis should be to pursue the next objective, namely to increase the efficiency of the courts and to remove judicial backlogs. We all know that the number of judicial backlogs in our country is alarming, and we all know in this National Assembly that the National Assembly does not, I stress, want to do nothing to reduce the number of these judicial backlogs. At the request of the Slovenian National Party on 26 September 2001, the National Assembly received a proposal to amend the Constitution within the framework of 129. Articles where we have proposed a limitation of the judicial mandate. Of course, the proposal did not receive the necessary support, nor did the qualified majority, for classification as one of the constitutional changes, despite the fact that the judicial mandate is unlimited in our society and that the judge, by his mandate, is not subject to his or her effectiveness and it is entirely irrelevant whether the judge in his or her field of work works properly or works qualitatively. In short, he's untouchable in his field. Talking about reducing the judicial mandate while maintaining the value of inviolability also at the price of laziness is, of course, irrelevant to our assessment. Below, the bill's proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the bill summarizes many positions by the so-called "twining project", which many of you have talked about before me, namely comparing Slovenian courts with other courts, with comparable European regions. I will talk more about this at the next point, which is related to the present. However, I would like to point out that in the amendment to the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are increasing the number of officials in different courts. While this same "Twining project" refers to us, this project, which is referred to by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the preparation of this law, emphasises that the Slovenian judge solves much less disputes than their colleagues in a comparable German region. On the one hand, we have a finding coming from international circles that, for the first time, Slovenian judges have a sufficient number of support in administrative personnel, but that their resolution of disputes is much smaller than in a comparable European region. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia tells us in the draft law that they have adopted positions, these findings, but the law we are considering today writes a completely different solution in the form of saying that the number of officials within the institutions dealing with the court in our country will increase. Let the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether to follow recommendations coming on the effectiveness of the courts, to the fullest extent or only in the title of each study. The law's proposer, as one of the objectives of the law, also pursues the right to be tried within a reasonable time and then refers to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been in its entirety and in its contents for more than ten years now. For more than ten years, we have an existing constitution, which I personally think is right, because it is not just a matter of changing the constitution night and day. But if the Constitution has so far failed to allow this, and the fact is that the Constitution has not allowed this, because we did not have a court within a reasonable time period, but it should be stressed that the government has simultaneously proposed amendments to the Constitution, I think in the field of the judiciary under Article 129, Article 130, Article 131 and Article 132. And in none of these articles speaks of the right to a reasonable time limit of trial. Then how can the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, speak in explanation how it makes sense if we have just found that the three basic assumptions on which the proposer was building are not reflected in the content of this law. We will no longer support the National Party, even so far we have rarely supported empty laws, laws that seem to be popular, but we know that we will meet with their corrections within four, five months. Either we accept a good marriage or we don't have a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u104	Also the position of New Slovenia. Majda Zupan has the floor for the presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts was first sent by the Government to the National Assembly by emergency procedure because it was afraid that there might be difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, as stated. It has prevailed in judgment, so that the bill is only adopted on a regular basis, since it interferes with such an important area as the judiciary, with which we have long been dissatisfied. Fundamental human rights and thus constitutional value are the right to be tried within a reasonable period, which is also, in some ways, a criterion for the rule of law. We have all too many times as Members of Parliament in our offices, but we also have the opportunity to hear that citizens and citizens are waiting for their rights for years and years, even five or more years, and that final and legislative decisions are not being implemented as they should be. Most of the delays are indeed due to the time of judicial reform, but it is the Ministry of Justice that recognises that in recent years there has been an increase in judicial backlog as a result of a small number of cases resolved and a reduction in the efficiency of the judiciary and the efficiency of the judges. Therefore, Mr Dukoff's statement, which has already been mentioned several times, is not twisted from the vine, even though the judges reject it. The new law aims to increase the efficiency of courts, ensure comparability of staff, adopt security conditions, educate employees and align the provisions with those of other rules. The effectiveness of the courts is also expected to be increased by decommissioning judges from non-judicial cases. Therefore, judicial assistants are being introduced. The fact is that the average number of judges in Slovenia is among the highest in Europe, but we say that judges are also expected to perform those tasks that are performed by specially trained judicial staff in other countries. However, it is unlikely that the number of judges will increase precisely because of the placement of judicial assistants, because it is a fear that judges with a permanent mandate could become even bigger gentlemen who would work even less and would be even more interested in high wages and good positions. Therefore, the role of the Ministry of Justice with regard to the work of judges will be even more important. The area of judicial protection is also important, as we believe that we are witnessing too often the insufficient protection of persons and property in the judiciary. Judges are at risk and citizens are at risk as there are various forms of escape. However, it seems that certain measures, which do not necessarily require a lot of money, can now, in some cases, prevent such problems. Changes and additions in the protection of the rights of trial within a reasonable time frame, and the role of the judiciary, the human resources plans, education, can improve the situation in our judiciary. However, we are asked whether we must have it for years and years, since the law has already been passed in 1994 and has already undergone 8 amendments, amend and supplement it. Why do we individually follow other countries, but we have never managed to set up a system that would contain all the basics they have elsewhere. Members of Parliament are in all references and we have supported the proposed amendments and additions to the basic law every time and have followed the proposals of the profession. It seems that we have not yet reached that fence in the judiciary that could successfully carry all the pesos of such an extremely important part of the judicial branch of power. This also indicates that the government with it, the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Justice, the judiciary, as well as the faculty, do not operate hand in hand, which has proved too often and has also been felt at meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy. Dissatisfaction with the judiciary has been going on for too long, and we believe that this time the changes and additions only mean a more serious approach to correction, but they only count on actions. Thus, citizens and citizens will be those who will or will not feel all the changes the government is offering us this time. We're hoping for a better one last time. Otherwise, this time, efforts will be in vain. It is difficult to oppose, and it is even harder to accept solutions that show through practice that they do not always bring the best results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. You have received one amendment to Article 24, but the amendment is not tabled in accordance with Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, so I cannot follow it. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 17.6.2004. This concludes this agenda item. At 3:10 p.m., we continue with the next item, which is the 15th item of the agenda. Thank you all very much for your cooperation. I am correcting the statement, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, that we will vote on the law tomorrow, on Thursday 17.6., I have a different term, after the end of the last item of the agenda, i.e. tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u107	We are on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Judicial Service in the context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, to the Secretary of State, Mr Karl Erjavac, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thanks again for saying that. The applicable law on judicial service does not regulate the issue of the standstill of a judicial function when a judge is elected to a commission to prevent corruption. You know that a law on the prevention of corruption has been adopted which sets out the composition of the anti-corruption commission, and one of the members is also proposed by the Council of Justice. It is therefore necessary to extend the scope of the functions for which the judge has a judicial mandate, while at the same time proposing other cases, if the judge were elected or appointed to other judicial international organisations or other functions within the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy Committee, as the parent of the labour force, has considered the proposal for a law. A member of the committee, colleague Majda Zupan, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much. At its 51st meeting, the Internal Policy Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Judicial Service Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the political system and the opinion of the Council of Justice. The representative stressed that it was less difficult to harmonise the law with the second law, namely that the proposal for a law adapted to the actual possibilities of a judicial council to appoint a member of the anti-corruption commission. The amendment refers to the possibility of remedying judicial backlogs and also to the solutions to certain situations where the judicial function and all rights and duties of the judicial service are to be left to the judge. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made a comment in the opinion on Article 1 and considered that the more appropriate wording proposed by law was the explicit indication of all three functions in the Anti-Corruption Commission. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia gave a positive opinion on the bill. The Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the political system has also upheld the law. The amendments to Articles 1 and 2 were tabled by the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members and the proposal for an amendment to Article 1 submitted by the Ministry of Justice with a proposal to accept it as its own. On the basis of the debate and the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice to Article 1, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1. In doing so, the amendment tabled by the LDS House of Members, the United Nations Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members has become irrelevant. The Committee of the amendment of the LDS Club, the United Nations Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members have not accepted Article 2. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted all the articles of the draft law relating to non-vote amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much for this report. The following are the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to my colleague Lidija Majnik, the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u112	Dear colleague and colleague. However, the applicant stated in his explanation for the proposed deletion of a maximum of two times the allocation of a judge that, in practice, the Council of Justice considered this to be an unnecessary hindrance in the elimination of judicial arrears and in the exercise of judicial authority. But whether this is an explanation of the proposed deletion. The Law on Judicial Service, by the way, we passed the law in 2002 and dealt with these chapters the most, for we introduced three different categories. First of all, relocation, which is of a permanent nature. Secondly, the granting of advance written consent to a judge who may be in a position for six months to allow the regular exercise of judicial authority for a period of one year to eliminate judicial backlogs, and for a period of two years if the judge in his court is unable to reach the expected level of work due to a reduced duty. We have also introduced an allocation without agreement for a period of six months in order to allow for the regular exercise of judicial authority. At the same time, we have also introduced so-called inter-ministerial judges who may have been assigned in the first six years of judicial service to a special place where they will replace absent judges within the same higher court area, resolve exceptional cases and deal with cases in other justified cases for a period of two years with the possibility of redistribution. In addition to the Hercules project, we have also taken additional care to resolve the judicial backlog. We therefore initially advocated that these amendments to Article 2 of the Law, which removes the cap on allocation, should not be adopted. The main problem of judicial backlogs is that it is possible to resolve it with permanent and not only temporary measures. The Article 2 dictatorship, as we now accept it, poses a great danger that the Institute of Relocation and Allocation, even if it becomes a permanent award, will be evenled or even more: the assigned judges will be given priority over the transferred judges as a result of payment allowances. Since we accept the amendment without analysis and very soon after the adoption of the law in 2002, there are certain reservations to this solution. We will support the law because of the urgency of the adoption of Article 1 in the House of Members. It is recommended, however, that the National Assembly of the following reference to the first treatment of the problem of judicial backlogs should also give careful attention to the analysis of the effectiveness of the implementation of the allocation of judges institute. We followed the opinion of the section at the parliamentary club. It's a court of law. And once again take the decision that this recommended. We hope and wish that the decision is the right one, so we will support the law. However, we will support it in particular because of the need for the adoption of Article 1 in order to complete the composition of the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Saš Pečet for the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u114	Your Honors are here! I will split the presentation of the positions of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group into two parts. But I'm asking you both to take it as a whole. Due to the timing, the business provisions cannot be presented in one part. As far as the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial function is concerned, we are talking again about one of those laws that we adopt after the current tape, a little symbolically speaking, almost every month. This clearly points to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in spite of the big words, various projects called Hercules, despite various findings from the so-called twinning projects and extended legislation from the third branch of government, the judiciary, still does not have a comprehensive picture that will demonstrate a trend or desire to reduce judicial backlogs in the long term. According to our assessment, it is very sad that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial function, which follows only one of the objectives of the so-called settlement of the judicial function in cases where the judge is elected, and then we have the ten newly elected functions listed. According to our assessment, there is too much correlation between the judiciary and the authorities, which, at the moment they detect an individual problem, namely the problem of the judges themselves, the executive branch of the government, reacts. However, when the problem of the judiciary is detected by the other institutions and, above all, by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, these reactions by the Republic of Slovenia as one of those institutions or by the branches of authority which have exclusive competence in introducing or proposing legislation in this field, there is no such response. The correlation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the judicial branch of power is demonstrated through such weak laws as this. Instead of meeting today with the National Assembly a law that would regulate the substance of the judicial service in its entirety, including in the area of the limitation of the judicial mandate, even in those areas that we have drawn up in the so-called Hercules project, and in particular in those areas that are visible from the so-called twinning project, which, according to our assessment, should be alpha and omega both for the government in the preparation of the material and for the judges in the exercise of the judicial function. But, of course, projects that show a negative real picture of Slovenian courts are not, unfortunately, the motive or leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is how we meet today, according to our assessment, I will once again stress, with a completely individual law or law that follows solely the ratings of judges and no one else in this country. Instead of trying to push or create a climate through the law, which would be reflected in the quality of the trial and, above all, in reducing judicial backlogs, this National Assembly follows the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposes only one objective, that is, providing even greater ratings to judges. In this way, the ruling on the law governing the discharge of a judicial function is defined in the following cases: for the President of the Republic, the Member of the National Council of the Constitutional Court, the Judge of the International Court of Justice, the appointment of a second international judicial function, the Prime Minister, the Ombudsman, the Deputy Ombudsman, the Minister or Prime Minister, the Vice-President or a member of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Member of the European Parliament, the European Ombudsman and the appointment of a member of the European Commission or a member of an international civil mission. This shows what follows, but the emphasis is on "sad" which is unfortunately followed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: the resolution of individual issues of individual judges. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not wish to call on the Slovenian National Party in particular in order to adopt a law reflecting a wider picture. No, no, no. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that we do not recognise judicial backlogs, the trials are difficult, we understand judges, work under difficult conditions and similar things. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not understand the citizens and citizens who are - many of them are also existentially bound to the functioning of the courts. However, the courts have been working in their established practice for the past 10 years with abnormally large judicial backlogs. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is solely responsible for this judicial mandate, does not take into account the decision of this national assembly. On 31.5.2001, this State Assembly, with a large majority of the Members present, adopted a decision, which read as follows: [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] 8 years, the work of the judge shall be checked every two years. [[...]] So every two years, we would see whether judges meet criteria that are either low or not. And if they do, fine, if they don't, they just have to say good-bye because of their inability to do this work. This decision was adopted by the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall not adopt or incorporate the adopted decision of the National Assembly into the amendment of this Act. But it's only about increasing the judges' ratings in our country. And then we have to ask ourselves whether we are really doing our job well, whether we are doing the quality work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not follow the instructions of the National Assembly. If we link this to a common denominator, this is an ever-increasing number of judicial backlogs, then we must be so kind to ourselves, honest to ourselves that we say, "No, the Slovenian government does not want to settle relations in the judiciary." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u115	Position of the New Slovenia Group. He'll be presented by Maja Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. The 1994 Judicial Service Act and the last amendment of 2002 should be amended and supplemented by two articles. It is a matter of less difficult amendments to Article 40, which should be extended by referring to the election of a judge also to the President, a Vice-President or a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, when the judicial function and all rights and duties of the judicial service are to stand still for the judge. The deletion of the second paragraph of Article 67, which provides for a maximum of twice the allocation of a judge, provides for the possibility of remedying the judicial backlog and the pending resolution of cases, since it will be possible for the judge to be allocated more than twice in a row. In our parliamentary group in New Slovenia, we do not oppose the proposed changes and additions, because we believe that they bring positive steps, in particular in the direction of the possibility of remedying judicial backlogs. We have always been critical of this phenomenon, because we claim that the right is deferred, the right is lost. The trial within a reasonable time is one of the basic postulates of the rule of law, for which we have, unfortunately, been working too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you, too. In doing so, we have heard the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 15.6., in which we have only one amendment to Article 1, in order to delete the second paragraph of this Article. Anybody want a word? The Secretary of State has the floor. Please. Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u118	We believe that there is also a need to arrange for peace for the functions of the so-called European institutions. This means that a judge would be elected a Member of the European Parliament or a Ombudsman of the European Union and other institutions. That is why we insist on this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He's a friend of mine. On the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u120	Your Honors are here! I would like to continue with the debate, which also touches on Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the amendment itself and Article 1 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be based on the findings found both at home and abroad. If, in the previous item of the agenda, which was also related to the implementation of the judicial service or the judicial mandate, I said that the weakness of the Slovenian government is precisely because it orders different studies, and later does not adhere to these studies, and in conjunction with Article 1 of the said law, i.e. the transfer of the judicial mandate, it is necessary to take the quality decision into account, according to our assessment, in particular the following. The analysis of the comparability of Slovenian courts was based on the years when the so-called twining project was carried out with the European region, specifically in Germany, which was in size, i.e. squares, identical to the Republic of Slovenia. So this criterion is a sufficient basis for our decision. They also found a region with approximately the same number of judges as the Slovenian state, i.e. approx. 700 judges. The findings resulting from the so-called twining project point to one weakness, which I ask you to take into account when voting around Article 1 that this comparable European region has once more inhabitants than Slovenia. Specifically 3.8 million people. Subsequent to this study of the so-called [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u121	Dear fellow Peca! In the meantime, I have received the withdrawal of the amendment and therefore have to stop the debate because the amendment is no longer available.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u122	If you allow me, because I think there is a meaningful link between the decision making which refers to Article 1 of the bill. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u123	No, no, no. With this moment, I have to stop this debate because there is no more amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u124	So you don't want to hear the truth about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u125	Not that I don't want to hear. There is therefore no debate on the amendments on a formal basis under the Rules of Procedure because they are not available.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u126	Legally, you do not want to hear about measures to reduce backlogs in our country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u127	No, this is not the subject of debate in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u128	the position of the National Assembly. [[...]] Is this DeSUS' position?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u129	This is not the subject of debate. Look, you had a parliamentary position on the law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u130	So you really don't care how the work of the judiciary works in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u131	I have to interrupt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u132	You're breaking up?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u133	I suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u134	You're interrupting solutions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u135	It's not my place to interrupt a solution. I'm interrupting a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u136	The debate in which we offer solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u137	about the amendments, because they're gone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u138	Mr. Vice President, you were three years old, we're talking the same thing, and we're talking now at the end. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u139	I have to interrupt because I'm in charge of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u140	Mr President, we are not at the retreat table yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u141	At this point, I got it, and I'm sure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u142	We usually wait for at least the Members to get it on their bench. Don't you think that's a common practice? I know you don't like what I'm saying because I'm criticizing the government, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u143	He will come to the table, but I think it's enough to report that the amendment has been withdrawn and is therefore gone and there is no further discussion of the amendment. Understand that I owe you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u144	I know you can't let me tell you what you think.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u145	No one's gonna stop me from doing what I can and can't do. I'll finish the discussion first. There are no amendments to the amended law when this amendment is withdrawn and there is no longer a possibility to discuss articles and amendments. That is why I am concluding the debate, as well as the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on a proposal for a law on Thursday, i.e. tomorrow, 17.6.2004, following the end of the last item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. Now you have a chance, Comrade Jerovšek for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u146	Mr. Vice President! I was in the office, listening to the transmission of the debate, and I have to protest, so I came here to break the rules of procedure. You can't, by natural law, if you've given your word, if there was an amendment, if there was a fellow furnace time, you should have allowed it. Someone took the amendment too late. Obviously. He took it too late because that's how it can't be given. When it appears that the debate is developing in the wrong direction to find faults in the amendment, then someone withdraws it. And you accept that immediately and take the floor with your fellow Member. We are working shamefully from this National Assembly in such a way of leading, and I ask that you apologize to your colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u147	I've been following the rules of procedure. The amendment may also be withdrawn until the end of the debate. And that was done. I'm the one who informed you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But we can't discuss anything anymore. I interrupt the agenda item, interrupt the meeting until the next item in the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u148	Fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr Minister with a co-worker, a sincere apology will first happen to the presidents, too. So we move on to 14. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the primary school law, the reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. I invite the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Slavko Gabra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act, which has only three articles. The first and foremost point is that a student or student in the 7th, 8th, and 9th classes can choose only two instead of three choice subjects. Why we have decided on this proposal to upgrade the primary school law, I think it is more or less clear to everyone. After quite a broad and lively debate in Slovenia, we have decided to let those who believe that when they perform other activities, for example, they deal with music school, ballet school or sports activities outside of school, as well as those who simply believe that they have too many hours of schooling, make it possible to give up one subject every week. In this way, we felt that it was also wise to resolve the wishes and wishes of some other entities who believed that there was less time to stay in school than we are now. In doing so, let me just say that this is one of the upgrades of the nine-year primary school system, with which we want to maintain basic logic in primary school, which in the last triad in the case of compulsory subjects also introduces compulsory selection courses, and thus, for the first time in decades, of course, enables parents and students to decide that they will be able to choose between the wide range of offers, in fact, around 33 items from which they will then offer them somewhat less than they can in schools, depending on the staff, in particular to choose what is closest to them. In this way, we allow young people to further deepen their knowledge, such as one in the field of computer science, others to choose visual design, third in another foreign language, and thus spend some of their time on what is close to them, and they are less involved in those areas in question, which they are convinced that they already know enough about or are not particularly close to the truth. This approach, together with the training of the military, is trying to help everyone get as much knowledge as possible, knowledge, and in this way it is already within the primary school. As we thus upgrade the nine-year primary school system, it may indicate here that we have received the support of both the principals and principals of primary schools in the Republic of Slovenia as well as the support of the professional council for the education and education of this country. Of course, the Institute for Education helped us design the proposal, which monitors the introduction of a nine-year primary school and notes that the system needs to be upgraded more than radically to intervene too quickly. We have decided on the system of upgrades from the very beginning, and you can see it as such an attempt. The same as it seems to be similar to understanding the idea that in the last triad a flexible subject should be introduced which would allow any of the objects, especially those that are only one-hour, or which is two-hour, to be combined in one year and not all to be repeated in the whole of the last triad, because the fact that we belong to those countries that have a larger number of subjects in the nine-year elementary school. We are just like some Scandinavian countries and the Netherlands. It would be close to me personally, so I also proposed to the expert board to study that a flexible subject would allow the last triad to reduce the number of hours available today for each of the subjects. This would specifically exclude mathematics, the first foreign language and mother tongue. These items should take place each year as currently envisaged. By reducing the number of subjects, they would also reduce the number of assessments and in peace build up the primary school system. So much perhaps, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, introductory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The members of the committee are a proposal for a law allowing the purpose and number of selected items in the last triad of a nine-year-old to be retained while allowing pupils to resign in the third electorate, mostly supported. On the contrary, some felt that the proposed law did not solve the essential problem of a nine-year-old girl, which is that today's elementary school students are significantly overburdened and too exposed to stressful situations, so we proposed the following. Firstly, the number of selected subjects in the last nine-year-old triad should be further reduced; secondly, the number of out-of-school activities should be replaced by one or more subjects, so that the attendance of a music or ballet school should be taken into account as one or two selection courses; thirdly, in the seventh nine-year-olds for pupils coming from the fifth grade of an eight-year-old, one selection subject should be replaced by the household subject; and fourthly, in the education process, the subjects that will educate the pupils with moral values. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that it is not clear by explicit reference to the seventh, eighth and ninth classes in the new fourth paragraphs of Article 17 from a nomological point of view whether students are allowed to choose only two selection items in each particular class in which the selection course is conducted, or whether the number of selected items will be decided only once for all three years. The representative of the applicant replied to the proposals expressed in the debate as follows: students may make a special decision in each class of the last triad on the number of selected subjects. To preserve the number of selected subjects, that is three, they decided because they did not want students who wanted to do so to reduce their desire for additional knowledge. At the same time, students who feel overwhelmed by school and extracurricular activities were offered the option of selecting one less choice. He expressed the belief that most of the students of the last nine-year-old will still choose three choice subjects, as it is a free offer of additional education within the school. There is no consensus in our society on which extracurricular activities could replace one or more optional subjects, so they have not decided to replace school activities with extra-school activities. The household will be included in the fifth grade programme for students coming from eight to nine years of age. With regard to the educational problems in primary school, however, he stressed that the involvement of the family and the school is particularly important today in the socialisation of pupils. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law at the meeting of the home working body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the basic school law be considered and adopted in the text tabled in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly No 51/04 of 15 April 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Education has a profound and far-reaching impact on the development of pupils and on society. That is why discussions on school legislation changing are a sensitive area in which we are all paying attention. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are monitoring the debates and dilemmas arising from the amendment of the Basic School Act, whereby the student in each class of the last triad could choose only two instead of three elective subjects. Opinions on change and content are shared in both the profession and the political scene. We believe that it is appropriate to maintain the choice of two or three selection items, depending on the individual's interest. However, we are little concerned about the complaints made by some teachers that despite the increased choice of compulsory selection items, the overall view of children and adolescents is declining. This asks us the question, "Isn't it just a virtual choice?" Although we are not sure that we know what the cause is, we agree with the findings of some that dispersion or failure to attach an object to one another does not increase the knowledge of children, since the dispersion of knowledge is only too great. We certainly cannot claim that all children are overloaded. It is true, however, that the selection items have been introduced as an alternative to rings which should be discontinued by their introduction. As far as practical reality is concerned, we do not know. But the fact is, the circles were invaluable. We believe that the development of the child depends not only on the school and the hours spent in it but also on the desire of the parents. Selective subjects are a good opportunity for all from a financial point of view, as they are free because they take place within the framework of learning content. At times, however, parents ’ wishes are too large and children may not be exactly at their will to work with obligations that are sometimes unsettled. In the DeSUS Group, we see no reason not to consider certain extracurricular activities as an option in the future if criteria were laid down. Knowledge isn't all kids have to get at school. It is heartwarming that in schools recently there has been an increasing decline in the cultural atmosphere and not the upgrading of ethical virtues. This is facilitated by the introduction of a level playing field, which primarily promotes competition and less solidarity, as well as the creation of an illusion that there are only one or only others in society. Despite the fact that a level study is conducted only in three subjects, the psychological impact on students is certainly worth considering. Knowledge and knowledge in today’s society has become so valuable that more and more people are striving to achieve the highest possible level of education. However, we do not need to go beyond the question of what this means for the quality of the school system, and not least, or we will be able to offer appropriate work and pay for long-term education to all educated staff. In the Group of Members, we believe that these comments are conceptual in nature and contain time for reflection. Maintaining the option of choosing three and allowing the possibility of two selection items at this time seems appropriate to us and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected minister with an escort. Colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act, which the Government has sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, will be supported by Members and Members of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In the LDS, we are convinced that existing and existing legislation is good and enables schoolchildren to acquire sufficient and quality knowledge that is comparable to European standards. At the LDS, we are also aware that we need to be attentive, adequately sensitive and, above all, professional in the field of school legislation. We need to be aware that the school system is not a child's toy. It is a system that, in different periods of human life, must enable people of different social groups, different political or religious beliefs and different world views to reach an attainable level of knowledge. In particular, the school system is sensitive in the part that deals with compulsory primary education. The foundation for the introduction of nine-year primary school education was adopted in 1996 by the Basic School Act. The law has been amended twice since its adoption, in 1997 and 2001. We've been witnessing a lot of public pressure lately, as if the nine-year-olds were overloaded. According to research, in Slovenia, the number of hours students spend per year on teaching is lower than most other countries. Thus, the total time spent by students in teaching and learning is less than in other countries. Only Romania, Hungary, Latvia, Finland and Belgium are interested. The third amendment to the law before us interferes with paragraphs 17 and 64. With the amendment to Article 17, the student shall be allowed to choose only two subjects instead of three. This change is intended to help relieve students of their learning skills. The second amendment introduced by the law in Article 64 concerns the verification of knowledge by national testing of knowledge at the end of periods. Following a new proposal, a more substantively appropriate definition of student knowledge standards is proposed, which are tested through a national knowledge test at the end of periods. In the LDS, we are convinced that the proposed changes are professionally thought out, there are minor corrections following some professional and civil initiatives to enable an individual, a child, to choose a suitable burden, of course, even with the professional assistance of school advisory services. Allow me to conclude the position of the LDS Group with my thoughts. Whenever we direct the development of society to the future, only those objectives that are common are attainable. When we talk about school, it is what connects students, teachers, parents, the environment, that is what expresses the needs and interests of students, parents, teachers and the environment, that is what motivates and encourages the better work of all participants in education and education, and that is what represents a situation that is better than the present one. In the LDS Group, we will support legislative changes. We are aware that it is important to educate and educate a healthy, fair, working and confident youth who will meet the challenges of the modern world. The basis for this is the legislation we have. Above all, in the LDS Group, we will be pleased to regulate the proposed amendment properly and to settle this area of school legislation for some time. We need to be aware that every single, minor change in legislation in a particular school makes quite a storm. Teachers, professional workers, and students want and deserve this kind of peace. We must enable them to learn, work, and prepare for life in peace. Since we have completed compulsory primary education for eight school students and nine students today on behalf of the LDS Group, I wish them a pleasant holiday to relax, to be long and warm, and, of course, to the employees of the school, to gather energy for the next school year.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. All hail you, especially the minister and the coworkers! Lately, the comments of parents, as well as of educators, as well as other subjects in education concerning a nine-year-old, have become increasingly evident and organized. Certain shortcomings are identified, which is nothing out of the ordinary for a system that has been reintroduced in recent years. Finding a flaw is not a problem. A more problematic position is the Ministry, which does not respond to warnings and comments with appropriate flexibility. Parents complain largely about the burdens and schedules, and the profession has other comments. Let me just list some. Comments are emerging on the methodology or conceptual approach. Comments are made on the underdevelopment of the last nine-year-old triad, on the substantially increased number of hours of instruction compared to the same level of the eight-year-old, on the number of selective content, on the unequal standard in the first nine-year-old, on questions relating to private education, on the institutional organisation, on the linkage of committees dealing with the preparation and evaluation of a nine-year-old, as there is no guarantee of criticality and independence and on vertical and horizontal integration, and on the increasing level of discipline in primary schools, and on the increasing presence of security guards, on the eve of escape from home and even worse things. Then there are comments at the school for policy makers. The real story is in textbooks, and last but not least, the primary school is only declared free. There are a lot of comments, and the law defines us as one. And in this way we will need at least ten more amendments to the law in order to obtain an appropriate legal solution. Today we are only looking at a correction on the selection content. There are different opinions here too, which is nothing wrong. However, I am convinced that the supplement that we have proposed has been a better solution than the one that will be adopted today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed to introduce only one selection item within two hours of the week, which must be assessed. This subject may also be of interest to the student, since, for example, it is not logical that a certified, evaluated and co-financed country's music programme or other education cannot be applied as a selective subject. It would make sense to think about other interesting content, since it is probably not our goal to unnecessarily interfere with the student’s learning and leisure time. Of course, the student still has the opportunity to visit, if he wants, other content. It's his own opinion if he thinks they're lying to him and he can handle them. The funds saved or released in this way could also be used for other purposes, other purposes and other purposes, such as basic education equipment. We will support the new law, although we believe that it is necessary to cut down fundamentally in the process of education and education, because neither left nor right cannot be exactly proud that capable young people, children who, after some studies at the world summit, have successfully completed their education, agree among the functionally illiterate in Europe. The objective is not ideology, but mainly the result of education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Undersecretary, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Basic School Act. They apply only to two articles of the current law and therefore the treatment under shorter procedure is commercially justified. In particular, the projected change in the number of compulsory selection items was reflected in the public. However, we believe that it is also important to change the national student knowledge tests. Not only the minimum standards of knowledge will be checked after the new one, but also the possibility of checking more difficult standards of knowledge is also being opened. At least this makes sense in the third three-year differentiation, if not necessarily. The changes are, along with some other measures, such as unloading school bags, an example of the slow resolution of weaknesses revealed only by the implementation. Otherwise, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we consider that this amendment to the law is not an appropriate opportunity for a general debate on a nine-year-old. It seems to us that well-prepared expert evaluation analyses are being carried out to show what needs to be changed in order to achieve all the goals of the nine-year-old. The categorical response to individual or group opinions of the interested public may not bring about a sufficiently deliberate change. It seems, however, that the debates on the conceptual issues of a nine-year-old appear to be reviving, trying to bring some extra-school activities into the public school subject, where many children are really involved. Therefore, it is clear that substantial support for such efforts is understandable in individual environments. However, there are still concerns about the relevance of the inclusion of extra-school content in the programme. In doing so, the objective of selective content is lost. This is primarily to ensure accessibility in the modern times of emergency skills, such as foreign language, computer science, to a population that would not be accessible because of the social and material situation. Because not all children have enough wealth to pay for expensive courses. Selective content offers the possibility that at least part of the teaching will be governed by the student's interest, which is sometimes not identical to that of the student's parents or expected educators. So the decision to choose the subject will, however, be left to the learner, the advisory services and the parents, while the possibility will be offered that those who want to do three things will also do so and that those who feel that they are overloaded by extra-school activities will choose only two subjects. In particular, I stress that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we do not support the inclusion of extra-school activities in a certificate as a compensation for one of the mandatory selection items. As we say in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Amendments and additions to the basic school law are more attractive, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group's assessment. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in its initiatives and proposals relating to the number of hours of schooling in nine years and the burden of students in school and with school, introduced a law amending and supplementing the Law on Primary School after a reduced procedure. The proposal reduces the mandatory number of optional subjects from three to two, and also changes the knowledge verification at the end of the periods with national knowledge experiments, which is to check not only the minimum standards of student knowledge but also the standards of knowledge set out in the curriculum, which means the range from the lowest to the highest. In its assessment of the situation, the proposal was also supported by the General Education Expert Council, but there was no support for these verifications or support for us. In view of the serious warnings from many of the parents' worlds that their children are in the last nine-year-old triad, the Slovenian People's Party supports the fact that the Ministry of Education has begun to take this issue seriously, but the solutions addressed are more or less beautiful in nature. At the time of the curiculative renovation of the nine-year primary school subject, we have repeatedly warned our client that the design of the subjects should enable the unloading of children, teachers and parents. In view of the fact that our party, as a then coalition partner, has reached an agreement amending the primary school law, since we have, inter alia, achieved that the number of subjects in the final external examination of knowledge from five subjects has decreased to three and, at the end of the first two triads, the verification is optional. We have been critical of the subject of the nine-year school in terms of the anticipated unloading since its adoption, which has proved justified. However, we believe that merely interfering with the proposed change in the selection items does not lead to a significant burden. The burdens are related to other factors carried out in the nine-year primary school, compulsory external checks, knowledge competitions whose results are included in the entry restriction points. The schedule will not significantly change if some students choose a third class. Similarly, changes to the law in external knowledge verification do not go in the direction of unloading. And what do we suggest? Especially in the direction of additional loads. It is necessary to allow for actual and not only apparent selectivity in selection items, as one of the selected subjects, under defined conditions also the recognition of activities not carried out by pupils at the home school, greater programme flexibility and the possibility and promotion of the development of private primary education, namely marriage solutions that will also achieve this. The school is in a democratic society in the service of society and community, called a family, a local community. The State shall allow for the flow, verification of the programme and verification of their public benefit. The Community must be able not only to establish and maintain a school but also to co-form an educational programme. Many European countries know programme flexibility. Part of the school program is selected together with the local community and parents. Most European schools define as a compulsory part of the program the choice between religious education and the teaching of ethics or religions. Individual communities should be able to choose educational programmes for their children. The content and implementation of different programmes are typical of private schools as they are most easily offered and implemented. We therefore support the development of private education with 100% funding to make it accessible to all who want it. The current school legislation in practice does not allow for the emergence of private primary schools. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendments to the Basic School Act have more or less similar characteristics than yesterday's constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we have demonstrated several times that in a spirit of constructiveness we are also able to support those legislative proposals, which to the very least mean improving the situation of Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why, in agreement with the competent ministry in the SNS Group, we have withdrawn from the procedure our proposal for a new law on primary school. The government law ahead of us is a new regulation or a new implementation of the programme in the new nine years, mainly on the basis of the results of the implementation of the programme. On the basis of the latter, the competent Ministry of Initiatives and Proposals relating to the number of hours of instruction in the nine-year period and the burden on pupils at school, in agreement with the Slovenian Institute of Education and the Association of Directors of the Basic Schools of Slovenia, prepared proposals to the Professional Council for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia, which it also adopted after consideration. According to the applicant's assurances, the proposed amendments are intended to burden the students and enable them to deepen their knowledge and substance. In the amendments, the proposer shall offer each individual the opportunity to choose only two items between the third educational period between the three electives, if this contributes in any way to the unloading or in-depth knowledge of the other two subjects. We will not oppose this in the parliamentary group. In addition, the applicant shall transmit knowledge verification at the end of the period to the national level by means of national knowledge tests. It should primarily examine knowledge standards. Although in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, on the basis of all the comments relating to primary education, we believe that matters have not yet been adequately regulated in this area, we will not object to the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister and a co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the primary school law. In Novi Slovenija, we are not satisfied with the changes made to the primary school law because these are more cosmetic adjustments, since this law only allows the student to choose only two instead of three optional subjects. This will not significantly change the burden of our primary schoolchildren, as primary schoolchildren are much more burdened with some unnecessary content. In the view of New Slovenia, the primary school should be much more focused on the acquisition of functional skills than on factual skills; more emphasis should also be placed on the educational and educational process. Our adolescents often do not know what a bonton is and do not know what a healthy relationship is. I don't want to be dramatic, but it's just a matter of security at more and more schools. There is also a lack of education to strengthen national consciousness, domestic education, health education, and more. When a nine-year-old girl began to be introduced five years ago, a fresh wind was announced in the reform of the elementary school, but unfortunately all of the above reform left her more on the sidelines. In Novi Slovenija, we find every good idea in the process of reshaping the education. The well-intentioned comments come from the professional circles, as from the civil initiative and, last but not least, have come from the Ministry of Defence, for example, regarding physical and domestic education. Round tables, such as these and others, were organized in good faith to contribute to the improvement of education and to make things move faster in this area. I do not say that nothing good has been done in this direction, but in New Slovenia we miss more fundamental changes in this direction. We are convinced that it is necessary to take into account the findings and opinions of experts involved in education and education, but it is certainly necessary to take into account the observation of teachers and parents, and not least of children. Only through dialogue and taking into account the strong comments that the school system will improve will we achieve the goal of reshaping the school. The school must be such that each child will be able to make the most of the intellectual potential that is given to him and develop into a self-sustaining and innovative citizen and be able to co-form our society. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the proposed changes, which only bring about a positive change, but once again point out that this is not a significant change for New Slovenia, which would bring about major improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Also, please choose the position of the Young Slovenia Party, which will be presented by Mr Marko Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Mr. Secretary. In particular, at the beginning of the reform on primary education, the so-called nine-year primary school, there are debates in the public as well as in the professional circles on the appropriateness of all the solutions that the reform has brought. No one can say that a reform of the primary school system was necessary or even necessary. It was imperative to preserve what was in the old system of good and to replace what was survived: to introduce more modern teaching methods into primary education, more innovative approaches and, above all, to offer quality education to students. The greatest criticism is certainly the introduction of the Nitrogen teaching. Many warnings from parents and teachers who see such classification of children in three levels not as helping weaker children, but mainly as systemic differences between children, but not as inappropriate. While it is true, the minister points out that children will decide, with the help of their parents, which of the levels will be visited. However, because of fear of negative self - image, children will be enrolled in higher levels than would be wise according to their abilities. Will the distinction between students according to their study abilities really not affect class relationships in other subjects? One of the main comments of parents and children in the new implementation of basic schooling is the overburden of schoolchildren in the last three years, when schoolchildren must choose three more besides compulsory subjects, and two optional subjects, as proposed by the new law before them. In some of the studies carried out, students choose sport, computer science, astronomy, dance, visual design, which should not increase their burden, but we must also think of those students who choose another foreign language or subject that requires more attention from the student. It is true that we demand more and more from children from year to year and place more difficult and difficult conditions. External checks on students, collecting points to continue schooling at the desired secondary school, and pressure on parents who, in their desire for the best possible education, lead the child to extremes. All of this is reflected in increasing mental pressures and stress on children who are expected to achieve only the best. Many extracurricular activities, foreign language courses, sports activities attended by children add to the burden of students. That's how they're running out of time for the most basic child labor, that's the game. The student schedule of the last three years, which reaches up to 30 hours a week, can be compared with the schedule of us adults, employees, where we have the legal provision of a 40-hour worker. We ask students to spend 30 hours of weekly concentrated schooling and then at least ten hours of domestic work if we do not take into account any extracurricular activities, which equates children with the working schedule of an adult. We regret that our amendment, which proposed that extracurricular activities, such as music school, could be considered one of the choices, was not supported on the committee. Members of the Youth Party will support the proposal for a law in terms of system-building, while realizing that there is still a long way to go to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the 20th hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his cooperation. At 5:15 p.m., we will come to the attention of the 19th item on the agenda - on the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u169	Your Honor! We're moving on to Treatment 19. Agenda items - on the draft resolution on the National Programme for Adult Education in the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite a representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Slavko Gabru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u170	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have a few more words to say about a document that we have been preparing for some time and has experienced a large number of professional discussions, and I also think it is quite thorough preparation. What he's talking about is the simplest thing. He is trying to tell us what the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of adult education are. And when he talks about it, he admits, on the other hand, that we have a lot of problems in Slovenia with a low education structure of the population. And it speaks very clearly and also on the basis of data that for several years, more or less a significant part of a decade, we have lived in an illusion that we have a highly educated structure and that we belong to a better educated nation in Europe. The figures say that we fell asleep at some point and that development did not go as fast as it did in some other countries with which we are members of the European Union today. Any such backlog in increasing the number of those with a certain level of education is found to be difficult to replace. This is also true with regard to the education structure in our country. It may not be enough to remind all of us once again that in 1991 we recorded a total of less than 135 thousand people who had more than secondary education in this country. And that all meant, I think about 8.9% of the population of Slovenia. In the next decade, somewhere in the 1990s, we have only managed to increase the proportion of those who receive education at both secondary and later secondary levels and when we reach 13,14,000 diplomas a year today, while we were witnessing somewhere between 5,500 and 6,500 diplomas a year, the situation began to improve. The 2002 census thus showed that from about 650,000 people with secondary education we have moved close to 900,000 and we can probably already talk, although we do not have this data in our own way, about 950,000 citizens and citizens with at least secondary education. At the same time, there has also been a shift in higher education and higher education. In Slovenia today there are about 100,000 more citizens and citizens who have more than secondary education than in 1991. This is an important shift if we look back on how Slovenia has been rising since the time of the Mariana Teresa Paradise at the level of the educational structure. It is particularly important that we now receive a large number of those who are educated each year, including among adults. There has been a significant shift in interest in achieving a higher level of education, and this also establishes a solid foundation for the decade ahead. However, it appears that we are touching the limits of the pool of those who could continue schooling after high school at the point of secondary education. We do not have enough of those who would have at least four years of secondary school, who would have said otherwise, at least 12 years of successfully completed schools in this country. International research has shown this, and ours have confirmed that this number of years of schooling, consumed by the number of years of schooling successfully completed, has for the first time been a serious opportunity for population mobility. These people with this level of education find their way either to further education or to find a way into other forms of work, jobs, so they are mobile and can take care of themselves. One of the basic objectives of this strategy, which is ahead of us, is to increase the educational level of the population, especially the elderly. The generation around my age is particularly sensitive, because it is simply not old enough to believe, so it is not yet 70 years old or older, that it does not have to make a special effort to raise the educational level, and it still has a lot of work to do. This population should strive to raise the educational level. We want to achieve 85% of adults with completed at least secondary education at a time when the European Union is seeking to reach 80% of the population with this education. I am sure that this objective is not easy to achieve, but it is worth working towards by 2010. At present, we are around 78% about this population. We still have the biggest problems at this point when it comes to achieving a four-year education. This will also increase the employment opportunities of people in this country. This is another very important goal that we have set ourselves in this strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. We also want to increase opportunities for learning and inclusion in employee education. Our aim is to achieve at least 15% of adult participation in lifelong learning there by 2010. In comparison, I should point out that the European Union's target is 12.5% inclusive. We therefore aim, ladies and gentlemen, something higher than the European Union's objectives, and we are not doing this by accident. We believe that Slovenia is capable of this and that we are obliged to create these opportunities for citizens and citizens of this country. To this end, we will try to establish an infrastructure for this, to use both school spaces and other adult education facilities, to use both computer equipment that is available, as well as that which is still coming under the project "3 times 6000". We will use the European funds. The Structural Fund will be used to a large extent in this regard and the resources that are allocated to adult education in various ministries and in part in municipalities. By 2010, 72 billion dollars, of which I think about 3 billion from municipal funds, and of course from the combination of the Republic of Slovenia and European finances, were to be allocated there by 2010. I myself expect that we will make a successful breakthrough in this area and that Slovenia will enter society definitively not only in the nations that are educated, but also in the nations that are truly well-educated. Our goal here is not like many other places. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Half, our goal here is to move slowly to the top third. [[...]] I therefore propose that we adopt this resolution and thus give the policy framework for adult education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth Science and Sport as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Vojko Celigo, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellows! The motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for parliamentary consideration. The Committee of the National Assembly on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport considered the proposal at its regular session on 26 May 2004 in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 56 of its Rules of Procedure. The opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission for the Social Activities of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were also available to the members of the Committee. The proposed resolution on the National Adult Education Programme was presented by Dr. Slavko Gaber, Minister for Education, Science and Sport to members of the Committee. And in the introduction, he said that many distinguished experts had participated in the drafting and coordination of the text of the resolution, that the proposed textual time had been considerablely neglected for adult education in the past, resulting in large backlogs compared to European countries. That the impression that we are a well - educated nation has turned out to be more than just a difficult and challenging task. This fundamental orientation of this resolution seeks to enable as many adults as possible to achieve a higher level of education and creates an atmosphere in which lifelong education will become a way of life in the Republic of Slovenia for all citizens. The government estimates that the implementation of this project from 2004 to 2010 will need to be provided by the 72 billion-dollar circus from both the budget, local funds and European funds, as a percentage of the adult population in education. The discussion assessed the proposed resolution as an appropriate basis for the development and promotion of adult education. However, some of the guidelines have also been given to some other areas of education that society should not overlook. The Committee adopted several amendments, which we have presented in writing in the report of the Committee, in Rapporteur No 72 of 3 June, including a change to the title of the resolution. Let me finish. The Committee therefore notes that the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the previous item on the agenda we discussed the amendment of the Law on Primary School. We continue on the same subject, with the difference that we will talk about the state and objectives of adult education. In doing so, we should not forget that in Slovenia in 2002 only one third of the older than 15 years of age had primary education or even less than that. This is why adult education, which increases general visibility and raises higher cultural level and functional literacy, also encourages, as already mentioned, creative thinking, essential to increasing the overall competitiveness of our people. It should be noted that it is essential to encourage greater enrolment in natural and technical studies, including those adults who have not completed the study on a regular basis. Indeed, in the past decade, social science has seen a marked increase in enrolment, which in practice paralyses the industry, as technical personnel have not been sufficient. We are absolutely in favour of the lifelong learning project in our Group of Members, because we are convinced that man is learning all his life and therefore it is essential that he does not stop this process. With experience from the past, a person with new, modern knowledge can always be useful and useful, especially competitive in the labour market, allowing him and his/her stable standard, and not least in the interests of the State. The problems at the practical level are, for example, the lack of will in those unemployed people who, due to their negative experience in the school process, due to their unfinished schooling or similar lack of willingness to complete studies or other schools, remain uncompetitive for potential employers. It is particularly important for older people to be able to participate in these projects, because, for the first time, they come in contact with others, and for the second time, they feel that despite their age they are still able to use society and, last but not least, to acquire knowledge that enables them to engage in everyday life and thus to follow the pace of time. But they are potential workers, which in Western countries has already been a stable and long-standing bang. The solutions outlined in the motion for a resolution are, in our view, realistic and achievable, but we need to ensure that they are implemented and implemented in particular. Given that Slovenia provides 5.9% of the gross social product for education, which is classified somewhere in Europe between Portugal and Finland, we estimate that we are also on track in the case of a lifelong learning project, but would mention that institutions dealing with adult and elderly education need to be strengthened in other regions where we do not have major centres such as Ljubljana and Maribor, which we can understand from the data available to us. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the motion for a resolution, which is, by its nature, a development and long-term document, is appropriate, and that is why we will also undermine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u176	Madam President, Minister, co-workers! Dear colleagues! The National Adult Education Programme, which we have under consideration today, is a fundamental development document that will define an educational policy in this area for the next medium-term period. At the same time, it provides a basis for its annual planning at the state level and means a rounding up of the adult public education service system. Slovenia has written down its development vision in the State Development Programme by 2006 which it wants to build in a knowledge-based society with the international competitiveness of economic, regionally balanced and sustainable development with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. With such a strategy, Slovenia will also be able to contribute its share to the very difficult objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, by which European space is expected to become the most competitive, knowledge-based economy. The implementation of such a strategy, on the one hand, and the requirements of the developed market on the other, require the individual to continuously adapt to rapid changes and to respond to these rapid changes in the need for continuous education throughout life. These guidelines must also be followed very quickly by changes in the education system, both in the field of youth education and in the area of continuing adult education and training for their personal development and in order to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness in the labour market. Based on the analysis of adult education in Slovenia, we can make a very positive assessment of achievements in a wide range of areas, but at the same time we find that we are still lagging behind the more developed countries of the world and Europe. Despite the very positive developments in the last decade and the significantly better education structure of the adult population, the proportion of adults aged 25 to 64 with completed higher education than four years of secondary education is still too low. In doing so, it should be noted that there is an even less favourable education structure for unemployed persons whose raising the educational structure must be one of the priorities and the necessary condition to achieve the greatest possible inclusion among employees. By addressing the shortcomings in this for adult education of developmental importance areas - if I mention some: programme development and thus ensuring their increased flexibility and ensuring transition, ensuring a more equitable distribution of educational programmes in the Slovenian space and thus ensuring greater accessibility, complementarity and training of professional workers and international cooperation - adult participation in learning and education will need to be further enhanced. In order to be able to address the development deficits in adult education and learning even more quickly and to ensure the conditions for lifelong learning, it will be necessary to devote significantly more public funding to adult education than we have allocated over the past few years. In view of the practice so far, where most measures and incentives have come to develop adult education at national level, the role of municipalities, regions and social partners will need to be strengthened due to changing education needs. Local communities and regions will have to play a more important role in the development, financing and promotion of education in their environment and the integration of implementing institutions. These, together with local communities, will have to listen more to the educational needs of people and businesses in their environment. In doing so, special attention will be paid to the role of employers, who, together with workers and trade unions, are expected to participate more actively in the construction of a lifelong learning and education system to achieve faster economic development and competitiveness and the highest possible employment rates. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that the resolution submitted on the national adult education programme is a good document, with which we will be able to eliminate the biggest developmental setbacks in adult education in Slovenia. These are mainly the rise in adult literacy, the increase in the proportion of adults with at least secondary education to 85% and the increase in the participation of the active population in lifelong education to at least 15%, which represents higher targets than the European Union has set. These objectives are also followed by the text of a resolution setting out the objectives in the priority areas. And if I mention only some: general education and adult learning, education to raise educational levels and education and training for the needs of the labour market, with a description of the activities needed to carry out education. As a reality, we are assessing the scope of the necessary public resources for the implementation and division of the national education programme in priority areas, which will be particularly important after 2006. In order to achieve the desired objectives and expected impacts of implementation, it will also be of paramount importance to implement the envisaged incentives and measures at different levels and institutions, both for the individual, local communities, the social partners and the country. In a number of incentives, we consider incentives to provide greater investment in education and training for individuals and employers, particularly for the subsidisation of education and with appropriate tax incentives and the role and importance of local communities. As I have already mentioned, we will support the resolution tabled at the LDS. Of course, we want the implementation of the national adult education programme to be carried out successfully through annual programmes, good cooperation between education seekers, performers, local communities, social partners and the country, and that reports, once transmitted to the National Assembly every two years, will demonstrate the success of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting again! The Ministry of Education has presented us with a document supported by our Group of Members. In principle, content, proposals and objectives can only be agreed upon. Therefore, adult education is only a logical continuation, complementing and upgrading of the educational process, a condition for the transition to a learning and innovative society, a society of lifelong learning. Updated, refined or additional knowledge is a condition for progress and also a condition for internal and external competitiveness in all areas of social and economic creation. Basically, it all stands because we know it's that simple. Knowledge is one of the greatest values and goods, the best capital and travel of every individual and every society. However, in doing so, I would merely point out a problem that is far more profound than those of us politicians, and you know it much more. This is because, according to some comparisons and studies, our seven-year-old children are students at the beginning of the learning process among the best. However, after the end of the educational process, when we examine and look at the data on functional literacy, and we are becoming more difficult, we are among the somewhat wooden peoples of the developed world, as the proposaler put it correctly and specifically in this resolution, a real government is. We can ask ourselves what is happening in the years of education, or what is not happening in our schools, that in just a few years, out of happy, enlightened, curious children, there are insurmountable students, both in statistics and in comparisons with other countries. Taking into account that we are investing around 10% of gross social product in the education system as developed European countries, then there are reasons for concern, for serious analysis and in particular for measures more than enough. After this comparison, we have Poland, Portugal and Chile. The fact is that children come from schools to load a variety of data, or quality lexicographic knowledge, we can say with static and statistical knowledge. However, since both are changing relatively rapidly, it has no special value. Instead of coming out of school with elastic educated people who are able to adapt quickly, who are able to meet the challenges of modern times in a qualitative way, we get lexicons. And that means making the best goods in the educational process anemic, uninventive intellectuals, and we may finally find that we have a completely comparable and competitive education system. This problem, as far as functional literacy is concerned, is not only the problem of opposition or civil society, but it is also a problem of coalitions, departments and governments, as the weaknesses of the system in the global system are relatively distributed. The consequences of society are a burden, a position, an opposition, a non-political part of civil society and, from a national point of view, a bad journey to life. We think we should ask ourselves why this is happening and where the reasons are. This problem may not be blamed on the self - taught, their parents, or teachers who are implementing the prescribed program. Probably a large part of the blame lies on the system and on the education of the supervisor who prepares, compares, evaluates, corrects and so on, procedures and content, and this is in some way distributed among the ministry, among the education institution, including the office. And all of this is happening in a number of commissions. It follows that the level of education resources is not the main criterion or the criterion for the relationship and quality of education. Although on average we devote 10% more of the gross social product for education than European countries, we have poorer practical results because, at most of the completed levels of education, our citizens are less comparable than peers from other countries. I believe that spending of resources is crucial. We may spend too much money on administration, on various administrations, institutions and on various commissions, including on what kinds of awkwardness or unnecessary investments, too much on expensive and numbered textbooks, and this money is poorly invested from this point of view. And given the functional illiteracy that is a problem of systemic nature, it appears that the responsibility must be sought elsewhere, i.e. in the programmes, in the methodology, in the requirements and also in that we may place more emphasis on this static factual approach at the expense of the research and development approach. Probably for our lives are not the most important anniversary of various battles, such as Kosovo battles, probably more important than any other, more practical, more dynamic, more developmental things. I believe that a more complex analysis of poor practical skills, education or functional literacy would be necessary and that the educational process might also need to be finalized in this respect. In the past, policies and professions have also prepared some school reforms which, according to an important part of the profession, have not produced good results, on the contrary. These were, for example, targeted education, and in recent times favourite high schools at the expense of technical secondary schools, resulting in favouritism of social colleges at the expense of natural science. Therefore, technical knowledge is blocked and neglected and there is also a relatively more limited transition between levels and programmes. A new deformation or an additional problem is caused by the introduction of a graduation instead of an admission exam. In many cases, the school order has been disrupted by extremely liberal rules, excessive student freedom, and this flexibility has increasingly shifted to lability and also to taking on the unilateral right to form a school order. I also believe that it would be useful to identify or assess how much of adult education wastes on education due to the conduct of standard or regular education, which was not normally completed due to different causes, for example because of social problems, or because of the stiffness and limitations of the point system of evaluation of knowledge, obstacles to the transition between programmes and other causes that result in premature completion or exclusion of students and students, or prevent them from entering their skills and wishes, and thus, the closed door to relevant schools and programmes. It may be quite common that the greatest talents in particular areas become victims of this system. This part of the additional education generated by these causes is unnecessary in my view and could be largely corrected by a change in the existing education system and resources would be diverted to improving the conditions of regular programmes. There is no need at all, we force contractual education and unnecessary tuition. On the one hand, we have a very heavy, hard and also mentally burdensome system of the primary education branch, and on the other hand, through a system of emergency and additional education, we are allowing us to acquire exactly the same stages. And I think it would make sense for both branches of education to be just a little more balanced. I also believe that some of the resources could be redeployed to the basic branch or education, to improve conditions, to remove obstacles, as many are hampered by the excessive cost of textbooks, transports, food, equipment and consequently poor and poor practical work or cabin work. I believe that it is necessary to check the entire education system, update it and adapt it to modern trends, rationalise it, and redirect these savings to objectives and content. And the sooner we do that, the better. Perhaps just a few more sentences regarding the additional resources provided for by the resolution for local communities in the field of education. I believe that in such cases, even in the case of primary education excluded from regular education, these resources should be foreseen and also replaced by local communities in their budgets in the context of appropriate spending or in any other way. We will support the national programme in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thanks, buddy Tanko. To the word of the representative of the People's Party - will this be Franci Rokavec? - for the position of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2010. In fact, the development of adult education and learning is a key factor in raising the level of knowledge and competence for different roles in life, improving the quality of life of each individual, equating opportunities and increasing social inclusion, all of which is a prerequisite for successful economic development and the enforcement of democracy. The rapidly changing situation also, of course, requires the appropriate response of the education system, both at the level of education of young people as well as of the continuous education and training of adults for the development of persons and, of course, the needs of the labour market. Education for adults in Slovenia is ahead of new challenges when it joins the European Union. Our country will also have to contribute to achieving the Lisbon objective that Europe should become the most competitive and dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and, of course, better social cohesion. The European Union has thus highlighted the correlation between the level of education of the population, economic growth and employment or the creation of new jobs. Therefore, the education of an individual is not intended for himself, but is in the function of active inclusion in social life, and the latter is being measured in particular today by the ability to actively participate in the labour market. The 2001-2006 Slovenian National Development Programme also highlights the interrelationship of knowledge and competitiveness for the development vision, of course, that Slovenia is a knowledge-based company with an internationally competitive economy and sustainable regionally balanced development. According to the Slovenian People's Party Group, the resolution should, of course, draw attention to the catastrophic level of functional literacy, i.e. in the OECD study in this document, there are only two other countries for Slovenia. Therefore, increasing the level of literacy must become a priority. This particular information should be a serious warning and probably also a question of whether our school system is suitable for an individual's integrated education and education. It should be stressed that, of course, private initiative must be encouraged. The resolution itself states that we will raise the level of investment in human resources and develop co-financing models with particular emphasis on public-private partnerships and, of course, integrated regional strategies. At the same time, the proposal for a law on higher education is severely limited, virtually even making it impossible for private schools to educate adults. In fact, the proposed Article 30 provides for the registration to be made on the basis of a call for tender for both public and private schools. Public schools must obtain the Minister's consent to the number of places proposed, and for private schools the number of places allowed is determined by a decision to register. This disqualifies private schools because they cannot register more candidates than those established, regardless of the adult, self-payers and would like to be educated in a particular institution. Here we also see the inconsistentity between the resolution that we are considering today and will adopt it and the legislative proposal that follows it. We expect, of course, that the legislative proposal will follow today's adoption of the resolution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed resolution is a good basis for establishing comprehensive conditions for the education of adults set goals, so we will also support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Bogdan Barovic is given the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Mr. Minister and representatives of the government! Of course, adult education in the Republic of Slovenia is content that, whether appropriate or not, is not at all appropriate to talk about. The objectives of the resolution on the national adult education programme are, we must admit, clearly defined, also all three priority areas. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, allow me to draw attention to some of the facts that have been presented on the working body and to the thoughts of the Slovenian National Party. Mr Gaber said at the meeting of his mother's working body that in the early 1990s Slovenia had embarked on an independent course with a significant education gap. Well, we are not in the Slovenian National Party of this opinion, and we will not and will not recognise it. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the general view of people over a mature period of life is even today inadequately higher than the level of knowledge at the level of today's youth. I would also be happy if the honourable Minister would also answer me on what level of education and at what level he said it would be like to feel lagging behind. The following statement made by the Minister on his mother's working body was that we had the impression for many years that the Slovenian nation was well educated, which was not true. Well, it is again an assessment by the Slovenian National Party that this claim is not true. However, if the government considers that this claim is true, I will ask what the government has done in these ten years to prevent this from happening, even though in the Slovenian National Party we still claim that the level of knowledge and education in Slovenia is at an enviable high level. Of course, it all depends on who we compare this data with. Well, it has been said that in the area of adult education, there is a great backlog for the developed world. Therefore, it will be very difficult and costly to make up for the backlog. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would say that we also miss the teaching of those who decide on education policies in those parts of the world where, in fact, there is a high level of education for adults, such as Japan or Korea. Let me say an example - and I hope that it will sometimes be possible to take into account in the drafting of legislation or subsequent resolutions or national programmes - that the Japanese have found that there are certain works that they need, I don't know, the work of a man two, three or four hours a day, that these are the works for which foreign labour must be imported. Then, of course, they wisely realized that by educating adults, they had included all those adults who had already retired and had replaced foreign labour for those two or three hours with retraining or retraining, saving huge money while giving people the opportunity to feel responsible, important and especially valuable during this so-called third life period. It is certainly important to mention also the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which assesses that in the second section of the legislative and legal basis, it is not entirely appropriate to state that the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia restricts non-university education when it comes to obtaining public education. I think that there is still a need to say a word about this opinion, or to take into account, sometimes, especially in resolutions and national programmes, the opinions that they are examining after their role and, by their role, our respected colleagues are also lawyers in the legislative and legal service. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that adult education is necessary, not only for statistical comparisons with some other countries. I must say that there is a lot of statistical, well-prepared statistics in the resolution itself, especially in the report on the motion for a resolution and that it certainly depends on how a person reads them, some are very encouraging and show Slovenia at a much higher level than we can appreciate in this area. It is also interesting to say that among the 17 countries that are located in Europe, I think not all members of the European Union are included in Norway and Romania, that Slovenia is 10th among the 17th countries after the share of the gross social product that it invests in education, or between the 27th in 10th place, which means that Slovenia has invested and that it invests a lot of money, since before it is mainly a Scandinavian, rich Scandinavian country, and so on. However, as we have already heard from previous interlocutors, this amount of money or money should be used even more rationally in different forms of education. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which we are talking about, means that we will not oppose it, but we want to stress once again that in the Slovenian National Party we are proud of the level of knowledge and that, even in our discussions with some professors in universities or rectors, we have found that the level of knowledge provided by Slovenian educational institutions, compared to many European countries or countries of the European Union, is at an ardent high level. And it is also right to boast about it and to stress such content more than once.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Resolution on the National Education Programme. First of all, what has actually happened in the last ten years with adult education is that we have lost comparative advantages in relation to other countries. Whether these comparative advantages can be assessed through formal contingents, i.e. with regard to the educational level achieved or the number of years of schooling and, on the other hand, with regard to the content, the utility, the functionality of this knowledge and how our people can behave in life and arrange their own things on the basis of their own knowledge, that is, the utility of everyday life. These two aspects should be compared, and when we compare them with other countries, we can find that there are also some very interesting things in other countries, such as the Czech Republic that it has, in fact, as regards the achievement of the number of years of schooling or the contingent of secondary school graduates, a higher degree, and in the use of this knowledge in everyday life, which somehow means communicating with the environment and finding ourselves in life, even in a worse place. I hope, I don't think I was wrong, but it's mostly about comparing in general what's going on with this utility of knowledge. And what about the Slovenian use of knowledge? In the number of patents, added value, education and use of new technologies, interest in foreign investment in terms of whether we have this workforce in Slovenia so that investors can decide to enter Slovenia. Investors can choose to enter Slovenia because we have a low labour price or because we have a good labour price. And it happens to us that we do not have a low labour price, but we should ask ourselves about quality that we have not taken those steps forward, such as our competition. Sleeping on some laurels from 10 years ago makes no sense. So what is the educational structure of adults, the educational deficit in the proportion of adults with secondary vocational education. This deficit is not so large, of course, we are somewhere in the middle, but this 80% of the population that is supposed to finish high school, we don't have it yet, is at 76%, as the results show. We can mention, by the way, that this analysis is quite appropriate for the resolution to be discussed and that there are also some things to be discussed. From the comparison of the population with at least secondary education, we are in Europe for Switzerland, for the Czech Republic, for Slovakia, but in front of a number of other countries. As I mentioned earlier, it is also necessary to take into account another aspect of what we, as adults with secondary education, can achieve in everyday life, in active life, in what is called this literacy, in written skills. Education of unemployed people - this area is probably the most critical because due to the restructuring procedures, many people who have fallen out of the system have remained in the employment institution or at home and are considered to be medically disabled, some have also been personally hampered for various reasons and have an elemental and evident employment potential, i.e. competence. This contingent also includes, of course, rashes with their own experience, which is a poor experience with the educational system. And these people are hard to train and return to the education system, but they can. This has also been demonstrated by countries, but in a slightly different way, because there are fewer theories where there is less theoretical teaching, less schooling, more cathedral teaching and more practical knowledge. In this context, before, say, five, six years ago, a project of apprenticeships and apprenticeships was prepared at the Ministry of Labour, where I myself participated. These are projects that are suitable for smallpox because they offer another approach to education. That the combination of employment or learning practices is in the irregular manufacturing process or companies, it is then in regular and exchanged with theoretical training. These experiences in some countries are called different, but we then called it that, many more of them could be involved in education and would not then be among offenders, between drug users and all those who could be employed for eternally lost. This, of course, is also an economic issue. It's not a social issue, it's not a medical question, it's an economic issue. What do we do with the potential we have? On the other hand, we have about 15 or 20,000 disabled people waiting for employment or retirement. That's not the right solution. A special record, hidden, which is probably the only true intention of reducing, formally reduces the proportion of the unemployed due to a statistically better picture. But that also means figuring it out. Determining from education, training programmes. Among these are the majority of disabled workers who receive cash compensation for waiting time for work. This waiting time for work can take five years, ten years - see how long it takes, the average waiting time is measured in years! And when you add that up, 15,000 people a year or so, there'll be 15 billion a year for passive forms of aid. With these 15 billion we could make education for these people at a high level. It's lost potential again. Slovenia has a demographic deficit and should therefore include this category of persons, including with more flexible forms of working relationship; in the case of the Labour Relations Act, the National Assembly has over-complicated. We have pointed out this: job protection from dismissal is not the right measure to ensure jobs, flexibility is more important and, on the other hand, appropriate incentives for re-entering employment. That's much better. That's what the world has proven. Among these unemployed there are also 47% without a vocational education. This number has settled down - 47%, so half of the unemployed are practically uneducated. That means 40,000 people. And these people should be included, not with the 5,000 programme, which means that it would take eight years for no one to apply to the new employment agency. As it would have been for the employment of 15,000 disabled people after this dynamic, or almost 20,000 if I were to take the other categories into account, it would have taken 15 to 20 years. And now how can the government then explain to these people that those who are now employed can be included within 15 to 20 years. That's insane. Achievements of adults in literacy. That's the point of view. We're really pretty on the tail here. Now I don't know how credible this research is. [[This is in the Rapporteur on page 38.]] , but really shows a bad situation, the bad position of Slovenia at So, from this we can understand that almost three quarters of the adult population in Slovenia does not have sufficient knowledge and skills to deal with information containing different types of texts, forms with picture-related data, accounting operations in everyday circumstances. [[...]] It's a functional knowledge of everyday life. And then, for example, they come to the office of a Member, a certain form needs to be filled out, a request, a role- people are really unfavourable. Probably because of the forms, because they're too complicated, they're not even clear to the ones they were making. But we don't find ourselves too many people. There's not enough of this knowledge transfer to everyday function. And that's what the school's gonna have to ask itself. And this is a critical comment on the resolution on adult education and programmes. Next up, education infrastructure. We should distribute educational capacities across Slovenia. It is also due to equitable development and also to the reduction of transport and accommodation costs, and also to allow us to feel or gain the opportunity to employ professional staff in our own place. This, around such a centre, is where other people gather, and this means reducing regional differences. If this is happening in education, and then in the economy, when we saw the Ministry of the Economy issuing calls yesterday and prefering four developed primary areas, then the opposite is happening to us that the differences between geographical provinces are shrinking. In the form of education, traditional learning, lack of flexibility, lack of transition, lack of flexibility, no modules, insufficient learning and self-initiative. Theoretical education predominates before practical experience, the lack of use of modern technology and, last but not least, the involvement of local communities and businesses in the educational process is too small. We must respond not only with a resolution, but also with programmes and with a school-specific strategy, but how interesting it is to have people involved in education. These may be financial incentives, but they may be others. So that adults, especially those in public service, will not be educated now, but how to ensure this. In order to ensure a reduction in the margin between written and practice, the implementation deficit is also being implemented. In fact, this is the real challenge for Slovenia to become a competitive country within the European Union. What can we offer as Slovenia? Probably not the ore fortunes. Not even some terrible tourist facilities. It's an option, of course. The capital is not accumulated. Even one who somehow went into transition has settled for the border and is waiting for speculative connections or something else. In doing so, we will have to use this educational capital as a state with dynamics, with an economic initiative, a relaxed, relaxed initiative, but not so that, as data now show in the last seven years, we have lost about 20,000 self-employed people. This is the basic mitcelain to ensure small and medium-sized companies. Twenty thousand, my dear. That's bad. This leads to small and small business or small economy or, if you want, small and medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises. And education is certainly one that can help us turn the wagon around. As far as universities are concerned, education centres and so much more could be said. So the strategy is necessary. More than a strategy, however, action is needed in education programmes at schools and in ministries. If this stays like a dead letter on paper, we're wasting our time today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, presented by Master Marko Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you, Mr. Secretary. The starting point of the Youth Slovenia Party is that Slovenia must be a knowledge-based society. This knowledge must be qualitative, substantively comparable in an international scale. Above all, it must be accessible to all who wish to acquire it at any time. In Slovenia we are still not aware of the importance of lifelong learning. Indeed, this was confirmed by an international study on adult literacy, which was done a year ago, or two. The study was difficult, and it mainly examined the knowledge and literacy of young people and adults in the workplace and in society. Unfortunately, the results showed a situation that we did not expect when Slovenia was included in the tail table, together with Hungary, Chile and Portugal. The main reason is that around 70% of adult Slovenians are no longer included in education after completion of schooling, a large school dropout during the secondary school process and a small amount of reading, a socio-economic situation. The educational makeup of the population has improved slightly in recent years. By now, 54% of the population over the age of 15 has graduated from high school. However, there is still concern about an alarming number of students who do not complete secondary education. These young people who are on average between 20 and 25 years of age, compared with those of other countries, do not later achieve sufficient levels of knowledge in life to enable them to work properly and thus compete. In explanation of the motion for a resolution prepared by the Government, one of the biggest difficulties can be found in the educational composition of the unemployed as one of the highest inflows of the unskilled active population from the school system. In particular, this is due to the fallout from the vocational and technical education system. It was urgently necessary to prevent this large rash by thoroughly reviewing the secondary school system, allowing it, by increasing the participation of schools with parents and with individual forms of work with pupils. The government has recently adopted a regulation prohibiting pupils who have failed in the regular education system from working through student and youth services for any reason. Thus came another road that helped these adults to learn and learn. Thus, the educational picture of unemployed people over the years will be even worse. Long-term unemployment resulting from inadequate education or education, despite all efforts and well-written wishes in this resolution, will not be reduced. Knowledge and an appropriate educational structure of the population can only be the product of long-term work and planning. Consider, for example, Sweden, where the popularisation of knowledge and modern forms of quality learning has been working for at least 60 years. Such a strategy has a great impact on young people not leaving school. Even though it is obvious in Slovenia, their parents do not have the appropriate education. All segments of the Swedish population have an equal opportunity for education. Young people need to be motivated to study and continue schooling, which is certainly not the case for the introduction of tuition at any level of schooling. The Lisbon Declaration, which sets Europe's goal, is to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge, knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. All these objectives will, however, be difficult to achieve without major investment in educational processes. However, the problem is not only the lack of motivation and the desire of young people, even when they get jobs and are once employed, but on the part of employers, with the exception of rare exceptions, there is little interest in investing in employee education. Businesses that are not aware of the importance of knowledge and education for their workers do not promote it, and employees in such an environment do not find the right challenge and motivation for education at all levels. That's how a vicious circle is concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Maydo Shirca, may I have a word with you? [[Ten Members who have been notified of the word are not in the Hall]] . Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u188	If until recently we have been able to claim to live in an industrial society or at least in a post-industrial society, today we can say that we live in an information society. In fact, the arrival of new technologies and the transition to a period when technologies are becoming more dominant means a shift that may be compared to the former transition from agrarian to industrial society. And today we can say that the transition from industrial to information society took place very quickly. This rapid transition also means the need for additional education. Of course, the development of technological and economic change is only one of the reasons for the necessity of additional adult education, as we are dealing with other factors here, including all the social changes that are taking place with the development of society. The development of industrial technologies is undoubtedly a major factor in the need for additional education. There is no doubt that additional education is also trying to address the issue of poverty in our area, as well as the issue of unemployment. When we look at the data, we know that it is those with poorer or worse education who dominate the unemployed. The active employment policy programme we adopted in 2002 already includes an increase in the active population layer, if I recall correctly, by almost three quarters per cent per year. By 2006, the unemployment rate was also expected to be only 5% by means of the reduction or nobility of education. It is understandable that the rate of the population of the Republic of Slovenia is higher without education or with incomplete education in those who have more than 50 years. Thus, the percentage of those who are uneducated ranges from 0.7 to 0.9, between 8% and 12% for those who have incomplete or uneducated education. It is gratifying to see a very high level of education among young people, especially those at a high level of 5.4% for those who are older, and this is between 25 and 29 years of age 14 and half percent for those who have lower education. At the same time, it is worrying that, say, postgraduate studies reach the majority of the population, at least as a percentage, a very high rate of those over 30 years, not under 30 years. Undoubtedly, the reform of higher education in terms of the Bologna approach will also help to ensure that those who are in the period of the most active performance capacity are said to have some 30 and over years of higher education. What is to be commended and, of course, also self-evident in such a resolution, is the fact that it is not only a programme implemented by one ministry but that it is a matter of confronting the programmes of various ministries, of course, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour. Moreover, the funds projected in the tables representing and demonstrating achievements and targets for adult education by 2010 are also noble for those expected from European resources or local communities and local environments. Of course, as with other resolutions, the resolution of the National Programme for Culture may also raise these questions with regard to sources arising from European funds. After all, these programs are listed here, which can be that they will dry up and that they will be replaced with others, but they are only a projection. I suppose they will, however, have alternative resources when there are modifications. I can only stress if I conclude that there is no doubt, of course, that this programme would be questionable, that perhaps someone would doubt it. I personally see its advantages in those areas, in that share, which, first of all, will reduce unemployment and poverty in the Slovenian space. And this is his advantage, because in our social environment, however, these are the worst cancers. By eliminating these symptoms or these problems, we can only face rising, not only social and social activities, but also the wide range of views in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you very much. All those who were notified and who were in the hall spoke. I invite the Minister to the floor. Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Allow me to point out and in this way try to respond to some of the claims related to this resolution that we have before us. I was just talking to my colleague Barovic about this. When I draw my attention to the educational structure that we are achieving in this country and when I talk about how it was around self-sustainment, I am trying to draw attention to the fact that we need a higher education structure, that we need a greater share of those who have at least a secondary school to begin with. Let me point out once again, 43% of those were in 1991, in 2002 fortunately already 54.1%, which is an important increase. It's also a shift from the 652,000 to the almost 900,000 I've talked about before. Secondly, for us not particularly friendly, the fact that, however, it is very important that we have only 8.9% of those with more than secondary education, which is essential. We probably have them today around 13.5 or something. I'm talking about 15 years or more. We have about 17 in our working population, but we would need them to compete equally with the world we want to compete with. But we are not interested in countries that are not particularly successful. We are interested in successful countries, so we would need more than 20% in the working population, and in this over 15 years it would be appropriate to have between 17% and 20%. So many more steps will have to be taken to achieve this. I think it is also in the Slovenian interest, the interest of citizens and citizens in this area to pour pure wine. And what we have today is an attempt to look at the situation and propose measures that need to be taken in the future in order to be better. However, an important step has also been taken with the great support of the National Assembly in its various occupations over the past ten, twelve, thirteen years so that these steps are possible. Even when we are talking about functional literacy, which, of course, is not illiteracy at the level of the ability to compose letters into words and the inability to compose words into sentences, it is inability to deal with the content that confronts you in life situations. However, situations are becoming more complex, they are lagging behind, I don't know, into the communication society, they are falling into other different situations. This is also in significant correlation with the proportion of those who had more than a certain level of education. If we had 16.7% of people with an imperfect elementary school in 1991 and gradually moved there to 6%, then this is an obvious sign that we are going in, and at the same time, if we include those who have only a primary school that was 30%, it turns out that it probably does not show that they are expected to be functionally very skilled as regards functional literacy. Throughout the generations, it takes quite some time to significantly raise the educational level and also the functional literacy of the generation that follows this first generation. That's what I'm warning you, and that's very important. It's social, and I'm going to be symbolic capital, something that's not going to work. And if it wasn't in the previous generation, we can only gradually pick it up in the next generation. Such functional literacy should not be "fun fun" but run away from having to be lifted would be, at least to my mind, pointless. When we speak to those whose generation is more literate, it is a pity that we have to admit that the younger are fortunate, in fact I say it with joy, better. Even after this international study, there is a clear difference between the generation that is mine and the generation of the majority here, and between this young generation. And who would say "thank God" for that? I will say, thanks to the wise conduct of citizens and citizens and also to the investment of public finances, it is different today. But you'd be even better too if the previous generation were even better and their start was higher. When we compensate for differences, we really need more resources to compensate for this educational deficit for the elderly. Of course, the permafrost we have in the country is, in a way, what appears to be shrinking. Our goal here is to move around 10% of the population from the sphere to about 5% of the rash. But we should be aware that we had a rash years ago that was somewhere more than 15% real in terms of being very large in a population that is weaker than knowledge. This means that the population stops in vocational schools. In high school programs today, about 5% of this target is. Some failures are always found everywhere where you find success. For these two go together, but they must be as few as possible. And the funds we use to compensate in relation to acquiring knowledge or refreshing knowledge, expanding general education and what else are 1:7.5 in favour of another. Thus they did not hold the claim that some here were flattened, and they talked about killing the desire to know in new generations and what was said to be similar. It seems to be very careful when we sow such claims in space for a very simple reason, because some of them could be caught and they would have to meet people who want to learn, especially the young generation themselves feels significantly less burdened than we do with our own thesis. Today you will find a record of this subject also in the journal. And let me finish with the information on the funds we're earmarking for education. I claim that we are acting as a rule, of course, because no one is intruding, even our ministry and general educational and educational institutions are not, I do not argue that we spend every tolar to the end rationally. But we treat these resources relatively decently. We have these resources, compared to the countries with which we go to the game, which is this Scandinavian arch, and this is, for example, also neighbouring Austria and someone else, less; not only do we have absolutely less, we usually have relatively fewer. We also have less than a percentage of gross social product than some countries. And it doesn't come to the top of a third unless you come to the top of a third of what you're spending. We will continue to invest in education and education, and we are proposing what we should invest in adult education today. So much, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps to clarify.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Since the time envisaged for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, who might still wish to discuss, in accordance with the business arrangement? Please raise your hands. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bogdan Barovic to the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I am pleased that we have this opportunity and that today we are talking about a thing that we can say is good and is good for all of us in knowing about knowledge, vision and behaviour. Education of Slovenes and Slovenes is and is taking place well, thanks, as the minister himself said, both to the national assembly and to the efforts of individuals. However, if you allow me - given that I have asked a question on which Mr Minister also partly answered me in his own way - he once again said. Look, I would be very happy if Minister Gaber said that in the field of education we haven't achieved as much as we wanted - because the foundation is good, but the person who would rather say, I don't know that we have significant backlogs. Okay, this is a different view - I can tell someone he's bad or he's less good. And we recognize knowledge. If you don't mind, I'll give you a comparison. When we reached out to the Slovenian National Party right around the Bologna Declaration. I want you to understand us because we are proud that we are Slovenians and that we have such a level of knowledge - I speak the level of knowledge, let us leave the quantity - that we do not want to now, according to some statistics that are clear: the rate of people without education as a percentage of the decline, the rate of people with higher and higher education is increasing, but we do not want this rate to increase as quickly as possible, the real knowledge we have of the Slovenians, and I say that we have it, but probably the Slovenian National Party believes that it will fall a little qualitatively. For I, as much as I have been able to teach or try to teach, have a degree of difficulty, knowledge in exams in different universities, in different European or out-of-European countries, a different approach. Some want a strict specialization and is a unique expert from only one area, but the rest, for example, one American does not know where Slovenia is, but can be a doctor of science. In Slovenia, however, people are generally well educated. That's all I'd like to say. In this adult education, I have the opportunity to meet different people. Those who are, say, on the social side, forced to go to some supplementary education feel this opportunity that the state gives them, like some kind of resistance, if I have to. But I was extremely surprised at how people who, on the first, second, third day when they go to retirement, deserved - we tell them to go to the third period of life - how they are voting for knowledge, they are looking for it. They are included in drama circles, visual, language. We need to look at this in education. In other words, we are already talking about the resolution on the national adult education programme, we need to take into account all spheres, not just those people who are 50 years of age who do not have enough education and must be educated to reach their retirement age. There are other people living here. And if we knew that if we could equalize stimulation to stimulate these people, we should all vote for knowledge because of knowledge, not because of coercion, need, desire, desire. I am convinced that this country is a country of good people, capable people, that it wants to achieve this and that every proposal we make, with which we want to say that changing some statistics is nice, good, and if we achieve this result in a long time and we also achieve it with quality, it is right. But if we reach it just to reach it, it seems to me that this is not the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Respectable, Your Honor. I conclude the debate on the motion for a resolution. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the vote on the resolution will take place today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, at 8 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting, which we resume at 8 p.m. I thank the Minister, my co-workers and my co-workers very much for their cooperation. So we'll pick it up at 8:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u194	Dear Members, honourable Members! Good evening! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I very much ask for some attention so that there will be no disagreement as to what we are voting on. Please check the voting devices as well. First of all, we continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. We will first move on to the decision on the amendment tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to Chapter I - Introduction. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u195	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u196	On behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The adoption of this amendment is a key issue for a successful fight against corruption. The exact diagnosis of the disease is in both medicine and sociology, if I say so, a prerequisite for you to start the correct treatment of the disease. And corruption is an extremely social evil that has spread over the past ten years in our country, as stated by the Director of the Government Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penko. It is said that he is still in position, that is to say, your director, who mentioned or noted in his expert opinion that the long reign of one political option is the best basis for the development and growth of corruption. If we keep our eyes closed, respected colleagues and colleagues, then your intentions to fight corruption are not serious. Then such a strategy is just a pre-election maneuver and a "bluff" to the Slovenian public, about which you probably have no serious intentions. What it says in this amendment is an accurate analysis of the situation, which has not been created in our kind, in our parliamentary group, but are experts who have been appointed to the appropriate positions by you. We know that they have suffered sanctions because of these findings, but there is now a place where we must show this political will. There is no political will in this country to fight corruption, and without this political will, it is impossible to fight corruption. Look, there are always new and new corruption affairs in this country. It is currently circling, it has not yet been proven, but it is very likely that there has been a major abuse, a major corruption in a health insurance company, that the misrepresentation of the health data of a million nine hundred thousand people, which is the worst thing that can happen in this country, of course, if it turns out to be the truth, then it is possible to make crazy money on this account. Given the prevalence of corruption in this country, it is highly likely that this has happened - that the strong political men who have been politically appointed have also allowed themselves to do so and that the game has gone on. For this reason, once again, the vote on this amendment will be a strong indicator of how to vote on the resolution, how seriously you mean by the resolution, how serious you are going to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Cukjat, please. You wanted to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Mr. Petan. Excuse me! Oh, okay. We have heard explanations of vote, so we can move on to a decision on the amendment to the chapter "Introduction". We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 22 votes against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Explanation of vote, Mr Barovic, then Mr Kremjar. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the opening speech and also in the adoption of the anti-corruption law, the Slovenian National Party set out and stressed a clear position. We still insist that last autumn the law is only the rules of procedure of the Commission, and we also insist on the contention of the legislative and legal service that this resolution is only an act which is not legally binding in nature and is beauteous without action. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we predict that we will oppose the motion for a resolution because of its non-life content.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will adopt and confirm the resolution and vote in favour, because I am convinced that we must lay down the framework for how corruption will be dealt with, and that is what we must do in Parliament - adopt a resolution, adopt legislation and others, all those who have to implement this legislation afterwards. That is why I think this is extremely important and right to discuss that we accept and that we have documents that are the basis of every legal state. However, I would like to point out, irrespective of the fact that I fully support the content and the acceptance itself, that there has been one depravity and that the resolution remains, which is likely to need to be corrected in the future, namely, what might also be the basis for corruption, the link between the compatibility of the functions of the Member and the mayor. Of course, in the course of working on the committee and here could this matter be corrected and it would be good to correct it, because surely this link between the mayor and the MPs could be the basis for any corruption. Therefore, it will be necessary to consider changing this matter, which, of course, is possible in the future and thus this resolution is no worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic, explain your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The very fabric of this resolution has shown that the citizens' assessment of the prevalence of corruption is 68.1% of respondents in 2002 and 55.3% in 2003, when the first surveys were made. If the polls were done earlier, this percentage would probably be even higher. However, it is true that the whole privatisation process has been based on or is a common denominator of about 100,000 or over this number of unemployed persons since 1991. Today, it is reported that there are nearly 100,000 unemployed and that the number of undeclared unemployed is unknown. Today we have some individuals in Slovenian society, a few hundred who have a fortune in millions of euros. How they came to this wealth, of course, they did not need to be anywhere and never to show and prove. Mostly they got rich overnight. And of course on the other hand hundreds of thousands who have become poor overnight at the expense of those who have become rich with so-called parallel by pass companies and of course [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by adopting certain legislation in Parliament. [[...]] We have done nothing but adopt a resolution or adopt a resolution, apart from the frameworks, in which corruption may continue. But to stop her from doing so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u204	Mr. Puksich, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u205	Of course, it will not be possible, so unfortunately you will not get my vote for such a corrupt resolution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u207	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to say that we will not oppose this resolution, but the point is that we do not support such as it is written. We understand it more or less than some pre-election gesture. In view of the laws, the resolutions prescribed by the procedure must also be followed in practice. If there are no such acts, it is, of course, difficult to say that a law written on paper will actually work. We are convinced, as an opposition party, that the only and best means to prevent corruption is actually to change power after a certain period of time. This is the best way to break all the ties that we have discussed at the recent meeting, where we have dealt with corruption and customerism. Until this happens in Slovenia, such and similar resolutions will not work until the supervisory committees and all those exercising control are composed by the candidates of the ruling coalition, until then we will have a difficult time talking about preventing or at least incriminating corruption. As long as we are just talking about independent media, as I said in the debate today, the Friday case will remain unexplored after more than two years, of course it is difficult to expect the media to be objective and independent. If not for the other reason, because actually the press is afraid to write the truth a lot. As long as the courts in our country are so slow to decide or not to decide, and until no one is actually convicted of corruption, and what they have obtained in an unfair manner has also been taken away, all attempts to adopt resolutions of this kind have no real meaning, and until then you will find it difficult for the Slovenian public to believe that this ruling coalition and this government actually wants to take a step forward in the area of corruption. And to conclude. If a government is unable to prevent corruption - this is what I wanted today to replicate to the Vice-President, but I did not get a chance to replicate - until a government does so, of course, it is the only means to change such a government sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek. Please, there's a lot of talking in the hall if you can do it quietly so you don't disturb the speakers. Please! Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you very much. In recent years, anyone in this country has been severely fighting corruption or exposing any corruption has been sanctioned. Miro Petek, by attempted murder, Mr Penko, by preventing him from running for director of the Anti-Corruption Office and the previous vote on the amendment, which is practically a summary of Mr Penk's research, is a law on the seriousness of the intentions of the ruling coalition in the fight against corruption. Because of the fact that these intentions have not proved to be serious, and because of the fact that you have been speaking this afternoon, even such impossibility, that the parliamentary fight against corruption is an extremely socially harmful phenomenon, it is clear to me that it is a pre-election bluff and pre-election propaganda at this time, three months before the elections. Your intentions are neither clear nor fair, not serious. That is why I will not be trapped in order to reject a resolution that has some positive things. However, I cannot vote for such pre-election propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? Yes, you can. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 54 Members and Members voted against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed resolution has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I inform you that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Affairs on Thursday, 17.6., following the end of the last item. However, we continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is to deal with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that I have not been informed by the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 of us in attendance. 56 Members and Members voted against 5. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law, the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. There were no notices of non-compliance. We're voting. There are 65 of us in attendance. 64 Members and Members voted in favour, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič. Here you go. Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u211	Madam President, this is actually one explanation that I would like to get from you. You've already said that we're going to deal with the law at the end of the agenda. It's happened five times already. Thus, we have been told five times that we will deal with a law according to the last item of the agenda. What is the last item of the agenda now? In this case, when we have one, we need to decide which marriage will be the first after the last point, because only then will we get the next law that can go after this last point. And I'd like to ask for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you very much. It's very complicated, Mr. Jelinčič noble. I'll explain after the session if you take that much time. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia. As no amendments have been tabled to the resolution's supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 62 Members and Members voted against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Health Action Act, Summary Procedure. With regard to this proposal, the Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Act did not adopt an article in the context of the second reading by means of an implementing decision. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Pukšič, because you can come to conduct the session because I don't hear my voice anymore, so you're loud. Therefore, in accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly of 11.6.2004, I propose that the following decision be adopted by the National Assembly: "The Committee for Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons should review the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act, the reduced procedure and prepare it for consideration at the meeting of the Assembly." We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 63 Members and Members voted against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And now, dear Mr Jelinčič the Noble, we are going to the last, that is 24. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE PROCESSAL INJURY CHILD - RAISER AND DEVELOPING INSTRUCTION OF THE REGION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There are no government representatives among us. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Branko Janc. Really please, I understand you, if you are not in the National Assembly all day, that you are now playing, but we owe it to the speakers to ensure peace in the Chamber, please, it is my duty to do so on my own to ensure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that everyone can speak in peace. I'm asking for peace! Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At its 24th emergency meeting, the Infrastructure Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of Rudnik Trbovlje - Hrastnik and the development restructuring of the region, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, following an urgent procedure. Following an introductory explanation of the law by the representative of the proposer, in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a second debate on all the articles together. In their debate, the members of the Committee almost fully supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. It was noted that there were some shortcomings regarding the organisational model for managing the closure of mines in Slovenia. The view was also expressed that this non-systematic approach, of course, also constitutes certain shortcomings in the exercise of control in the closure and implementation of the closure programme itself and, in particular, in the implementation of the social programme in these closure procedures. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik and the developmental restructuring of the region be considered and adopted in the text as sent to the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He's got a magic word first. Zoran Gračner, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u215	Dear colleagues! Let me present the position of the LDS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. The existing law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, which you adopted in 2000, provides for the production of coal in our coal mine for the needs of the thermal power plant until 2007 when the final closure by 2012. However, the reduction in domestic coal consumption has had serious regional and social consequences in Europe, and coal mining in the European Union has a special status in the treatment of state aid. Under the Treaty of the European Coal and Steel Community, which regulated the status of the 1993 coal industry, these permits were only until 2007. However, on 23 July 2002, the Council prepared a new regulation allowing the extension of State aid until 2010. Thus, our Slovenian Commission for the Control and Allocation of State Aid at the April session, at the proposal of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik and with the consent of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, approved the new medium-term RTH closure programme for the period 2005-2009. So two more years after the initial anticipated closure. The new programme is, of course, more favourable and acceptable both for employees and for the country, but provides for two major changes. First, the extension of coal production from 2007 to 2009, secondly, the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine until 2015. The extension of the production of brown coal in Trbovje will have several advantages both for the local community and for the country. There are more arguments that support the extension of coal production in Trbovje and Hrastnik by 2009 and the final closure by 2015. And then I'm going to count the top five. The first is that the total costs of the second phase of closure will be reduced by two years from the estimated 38 billion to 24 billion to 24 billion dollars, mainly due to a decrease in the intensity of the closures and a more favourable human and social programme, thus reflecting the social aspect of the closure of the mine. Secondly, the unemployment rate in the region, particularly in the municipality of Treblje, is above the average of over 19%. With the prolonged excavation and closure of caves, RTH estimates will slow the increase in unemployment, with the subsequent pensions of workers of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine, the annual burdens of state budgets are expected to be reduced. Third time. In the region, especially in Trbovje, a poor entrepreneurial climate is present due to the sudden end of the traditional 200 years of the mining era. As a result, we record a lower interest in the arrival of new investors, which also creates a smaller share of new possibilities for re-employment of workers from the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine. Although I must also point out that they have been able to employ 240 so far. The fourth reason is that at the moment 18 million Euros are being invested in the smoke gas treatment plant at the thermal power plant II. The thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje II is also the only coal consumer from the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine and the location of the Thermoelectrica II is also important in the future and will also be able to serve to burn some other coal in the future, saying less quality, whose problem is also sulphur. And last but not least, the main argument is that, in addition to the above mentioned increase in coal production, it provides greater domestic energy supply. During these two years, we will additionally dig up 950,000 tonnes of coal, bearing in mind that the estimated purchase stocks at the location of Trbovlje and Hrastnik at 31.12.2002 exceeded 20 million tonnes. Thus, in the face of anticipated supply disruptions, the real world energy supply of this stock would be a shame to leave it underground so as not to take advantage of it while it still can. Let me stress that in the LDS Group we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! First of all, I would like to protest because this item of the agenda is being discussed today, especially because of the interesting activities of some individuals who, without qualifications, have somehow taken the right to play, I think, a lot of tennis. We have before us one of the laws that the government believes will have difficult corrective consequences if we do not adopt it. I must inform this assembly that there have been difficult remedial effects already, because Article 7 of this Law, which we are correcting, expired on 31.12.2003, which means that there was no basis for placing this item in the 2005 budget at the end of last year. Nevertheless, this figure of 3 billion 952 million was in the budget and the National Assembly confirmed this. And worse still, it is very likely that these funds are already being used successfully this year, as no complaints have been detected that the RTH project would be compromised. About an hour ago, we spoke about the government's and the coalition's responsibility to prevent corrupt and illegal acts. This case reminds us of what constitutes a violation of a series of laws and regulations, such as the Public Finance Act, ZIPRO, and some other. And how is it possible for this to happen to a government that has everything under control and that so conscientiously cares for order? In this case, Minister Kopač or his employees in the Ministry missed an item representing approximately 10% of the annual budget of MOPE. And only with the novel that we are going to adopt, is there a basis for the inclusion of the item in the budget and for the drawing of funds. But half of it's already spent anyway, and it's hard because we're doing it back. I must point out that the amendments or even the laws drafted by the opposition have often been rejected if they have not been properly tabled or if certain business standards have not been complied with. In this case, no one can say that this law would not be possible to adopt in a package of legislation that is usually adopted at a budget session where laws have direct budgetary implications. A big exception was made here. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government is engaged in the same processes, it is said, in very different ways, non-systematicly, they are carried out by different resources, which is also a blur of transparency. According to the Court of Auditors, these procedures lose considerable resources, as management distributes them considerably in its own way, irrespective of the objectives of closure, the legal provisions and the rules on financial transactions. In most cases things are very domestic and virtually all audits also have negative opinions. In any event, when this law is being considered, we would expect an analysis of the achievement of the restructuring parameters as well as a more extensive closure report. Sanitation has been going on for many years, but unemployment has barely fallen by 0.9%. It would be interesting to know how much retirement and increased day migration have contributed to this tiny fall. Retirement in 2008-2009 is also expected to contribute the most to the moderate unemployment rate in this region, so that the labour supply market is not overburdened. This weak reduction means that structural renewal does not achieve the objectives of stagnation and that this leads us to believe that there are poor programmes or that there is an unintended use of funds. In any event, the Government should prepare a more serious analysis of the use of funds and the effects of recovery in the closing and structural areas to deal with such laws. In short, a brief introductory explanation is not sufficient. I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, the financial implications of the law do not correspond to the assessment of the financial implications of the text. I think it would make sense on this side, too, that certain things are being corrected. We will not oppose the adoption of law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted a national energy programme strategy in the National Assembly, of course it was also announced and also accepted that we will also use, as the basic energy we produce in Zasavje, in the area of further energy generation. We wrote in the resolution that we will deal with this in an appropriate manner with the law, which is also submitted, and also define the time taken by this energy to produce electricity. I must say that before the second amendment or amendment of the law on the amendments to the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region, we have adopted amendments to the fact that the obligation we adopted in the then law in the area of the development restructuring region has been amended by amending the amount of 4 billion 900, which was provided for in the law to be used for the restructuring of the region for 5 years, and this period has been extended to 7 years. This is said not to have been provided 980 million a year, but only 700 million will be provided in view of the extension of the period. The second thing I would like to mention, of course, is that production, I think, is justified to extend until the end of 2009, as is defined in the assessment of the situation and also in the reasons for the adoption of this law. Finally, the production in the Hrastnik – Trbovlje mine ends in Hrastnik. The main level of production is produced in a cave in Trbów, and this will also significantly increase the economy itself in the acquisition of this energy. Thus, we can also claim with full responsibility that there was no need to invest almost any financial resources in this mining area, which amounted to two or three billion annually, since the prepared excavation fields had been financially prepared in previous years. If you allow me, of course, I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, but I cannot go beyond some of the findings that have already been made by some opposition parties at the very meetings of the infrastructure committee, which are incorrect. I must say that the control carried out over the use of funds in the closing mine is Trbovlje - Hrastnik is controlled every year through the Court of Auditors, through internal inspections, in the Ministry of the Environment and with full responsibility I claim that there have been no derogations and no irregularities in the use of these funds. That is why, of course, I remind some again that we are talking today about the closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik Mine. We are not talking about some other laws which have been mixed together and, of course, I am arguing once again that the funds are being used in accordance with the financial plans, in accordance with the positive rules. The amendment proposed is also that no re-analysis of the use of funds over the next five years should be undertaken every three years, as investment so far proves that, in view of the conditions of work occurring in the acquiring zone itself, these annual programmes should be adopted by way of. This demonstrated greater strength, greater transparency over financial resources and continued to make sure that what will be done and done in the financial plan or in the budgets will also be adopted. Dear gentlemen, when the referendum on the closure of the mine was adopted at that time, it was known that there would be as much as a new thermal power plant, a thermoelectric power plant of 3 - 200 megawatts to be used for closing. These numbers are right in front of you. And if, of course, the referendum was adopted, including by law, then I think that these obligations should also be respected, as was the decision of that time. However, we in Zasavje are prepared to accept this change and to ensure, in due time, that appropriate restructuring is also provided within the framework of the law and in the employment of redundant workers and, within the framework of the staff social work, by extending for two years, that workers go and the disabled go with a proud right to receive a decent pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say, do not read the amendment and supplementation bill as a law, and read it as a book from real life. If a mistake has been made by the government, the former, the present, do not punish the people who live there. True, with decisions made in the past, the then government was too fast. It's easy to say, but something to close up is hard to say, we're going to give that kind of money and we're going to do something. Reality is different. We, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of political colours, colleagues from Zagorje, colleagues from Trbovlje, colleagues from Hrastnik, experience this reality. It's time for analysis. It's time for reminders and reproofs. All right. And once again, please, let's be consistent, let's not punish people! It's not going as fast as we hoped and wanted. And there's something else that matters. What we have already heard: in doing so, we will calm down the ball - in football terms, because we are in the European Championship football game - people will be in peace for a well-deserved retirement. People will live more peacefully for the sake of social security. Production is running, people are physically working, they are working, they have results, they will be paid, and the results of their work will serve their purpose. This country does not have a complete energy policy, as we have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian National Party, and thank God, it will have an energy facility that will for some time maintain a reserve and some possibility that this country will only get some energy at critical times. In short, it's five benefits, five benefits. In addition, let us not forget that we have made a social decision, and if we do, let us insist on building a cleaning plant worth €18 million, which will serve everyone. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in this Parliament, all that is proposed is good, the benefits of people, the benefits of production, the benefits of the country, the benefits of the budget, which will of course reduce costs, because it will divide one quota into a longer period and even smaller costs will be precisely because people will normally experience their retirement and there will not be a lot of costs for re-employment and restructuring at the same time. At the same time, we will have time to smartly restructure the economy in Zasavje. That's a lot to take in. It is true, and I welcome, Mr Janc, the decision of the Infrastructure Committee. Greetings, you are right to approach the closure of mines and similar giants systematically. And it is right that you have concluded that the government must closely monitor the implementation of the programmes in the future. And not only in the future, even if analysis is required, it is right to do so. That's right. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the unity of this national assembly and on behalf of the benefit to this country, to the region of Zasavje and to all, let us support a single bill that prolongs people's life, better life, social security and save the country quite a bit of money and save time to reshape society and harmonise new developments in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. The government had a few memories of adopting a mine closure program. The extension of the programme over a longer period of time undoubtedly has certain effects, including financial ones. In any case, this encourages activity. Absolutely. Then the reference to prolonging the possibility of hiring people is, of course, not serious. When the mine closes or similar things, a restructuring programme must be prepared. In time, in the initial phase also prepare pre-employment training programmes and everything that belongs. I think that in large cases, too, it was too late. In some cases, there was a lack of interest in re-employment, as the arrangements on the other hand were not well prepared. Some, yes, indeed, in some cases workers have not made up their mind, but because all procedures have not been properly carried out. It would certainly be necessary to report on the activities carried out in order to adapt the law. That wasn't there. There's also no report of money use. I also think it would be necessary to check how many incentives have been made in private pockets. So this investment or this grant or form of aid that has not produced any effect. There are no reasoned restructuring and new investment programmes. This should certainly be prepared in addition to this programme. There are no defined programmes for these amounts, these requirements have been made without basic calculations, programmes and projects, in short, eye-to-eye. None of these institutions will retrain the workforce. Where are the restructuring programmes, the sectors where investment promotion programmes, municipalities, the state, EU funds, the preparation and training of labour? Possible entry with vertical and horizontal State aid. I have only mentioned a few things that are an integral part of any restructuring programme that can be the basis for the adoption of the law. That wasn't ready. This looks like a pre-election goulash, which, of course, will have to be paid. And if we paid it by knowing what it would be and by giving birth to effects, then there would certainly be no dilemma in this national assembly and we would confirm everything quickly. However, this was not prepared because it was done ad hoc raises a series of questions also due to the experience we have had in the past. When the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, among other things, confirmed, for example, TAM 12 billion tax money. In the case of TAM with good intent 12 billion taxpayers' money. Where's that money? We know. This is an insurmountable approach to the closure of the mine or a change in the process or restructuring. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is necessary to provide all the activities and resources necessary for this process to be carried out in a painful way, in most cases, for workers to get work, not to focus on the employment agency or retirement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr. Jerič, an explanation of the voice. I'm sorry. Did you raise your hand to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] I'm sorry. I can't see if it's about sneezing or sneezing. Voice explanation, Mr. Jerič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u225	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. I will support the amendments and additions to the law on the gradual closure and developmental restructuring of the Sava region for three reasons in particular. Since the dynamics of using the resources needed to implement this law provide for a longer period of time and thus ensure a lower burden on the annual state budgets. Secondly, since the extension of both the mine mine and the implementation of the closures will facilitate the implementation of the staff-social programme in the Sava region, and thus the pressure on unemployment. And as a third reason, because of the extension of coal mining, at least part of those stocks of brown coal that are available without large investment investments will also be unearthed in the coming years. When the mine is finally closed, at least part of the stock will be used. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I have to say, as I am already on the Infrastructure Committee, today we are deciding on 44 billion Slovenian tolls in impossible working conditions. This is where, in the end, some of the other activities of fellow Members make us go to such a difficult law. So it's just to press the button here and vote something out. What really bothers me, what I am missing and what I have asked the committee to take a decision on is that the government will report to us on the current effects of mine closure. And so today, somehow, we have to believe in the Members coming from this area, when they say, the effects are positive, so we solved the social problems, we solved employment, we solved red data showing that as far as unemployment is concerned, this rate is essentially as high as it was at the beginning when the mine began to close. I also object to the fact that we are adopting such an important law following an urgent procedure, as my colleague Tanko has previously discussed. And I see it in this form of political corruption, if we have talked about this all morning. Otherwise, I agree that the exploitation and coal mine will be extended, but I do not know how this government will achieve what it has committed and what it has accepted, namely that we will reduce greenhouse gases by 8% compared to 1997. The Kyoto Protocol, respected colleagues, we have signed it, we have ratified it, and those who, of course, have it, will also have to comply with it at a time when the Kyoto Protocol is in force. And even more difficult, Kyoto 1 will be followed by Kyoto 2 and these greenhouse gas reduction procedures will have to continue. So that we should, I am sure, discuss this much more thoroughly than this national assembly will adopt this law for 44 billion Slovenian tolars in half an hour. I don't think that's serious. Otherwise, I will not object, nor will I vote in favour; I will simply vote in this law by quorum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a vote on the bill. We're voting. 61, 56 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour, against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all and good night!
