ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Good-bye! When we make our decision, we'll probably have more of us, because there's not enough excuses. These are colleagues of Battelli, Čebulj, after 2 p.m. of colleagues Diaci, Mamić, Peterle and Tanko and colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, all others will be in the hall or in the office of the National Assembly and will be present at the vote. These, representatives of the government and everyone who will participate in today's work, I welcome them very much. We'll be there by 4:00. POINT OF THE DAY, ON THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE RELATIONSHIPS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH SLOVENIA LIVING EXTERNAL LIMITS. Two and a half hours are foreseen for this debate. He will open the debate with a presentation of the bill by his colleague Pukšič, I give him my word. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a group of ten Members requested a general hearing and we will now do so. Now I give you my word, Comrade Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, Madam Director of the Office! This law was created by the Committee on Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, after the Commission was set up in March 2001. Our agreement was to rule out the so-called daily and client policy on this committee. That's how we did our job, and we've mostly taken over 99% of the decisions unanimously. The creation of this law was also in line with this agreement, as he was given a green light by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, who also authorised the State Secretary and, of course, the co-workers to participate in the law. The law also involved the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Structural Policy. And of course, without which it does not go, so those who also know this issue very well are representatives of civil society. Thus Slovenian expatriate queens, the World Slovenian Congress and Slovenia in the world. This law also received additional political support last year in June in the dialogue with the Prime Minister of Magi. We have, of course, taken into account the comments made by the then Prime Minister in continuing to coordinate and prepare the law. The conclusion of this political cooperation and action was two days ago at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the representatives of the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister himself, where it was said that some of the things in the law, in their view, were not what they were supposed to be. We agreed, which is also based on conclusions, on the opinions of individual ministries that the law is suitable for further consideration. And we agreed, too, as first-signed, I promised the Minister that I would vote in favour of those amendments that the government would support. This means all support for the amendments that will defile some of the rights under this law, but, knowing that there is a need to work with consensus on this point, as we have agreed, even in advance. So, of course, I was surprised, surprised and disappointed that the government had sent such an opinion as it was. However, this does not mean anything, Members and Members, it is you who will decide whether the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. You too are the ones who will later vote in the second reading of the amendments and, of course, most Members and Members will decide on amendments, such as most will adopt. Therefore, at the beginning of this presentation, I ask you to take a thorough look at things and reflect on your conscience, giving Slovenians and Slovenians around the world the opportunity to get this roofing law that we need. The reasons for the adoption of the law are as follows. Firstly, our constitution in Article 5 provides that we will deal with this with a special law for Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. The second reason is the 1996 resolution for Slovenians in substitution. The third reason is the 2002 resolution, the resolution on Slovenians living around the world. The fourth reason for the adoption of this law is also that the legislator wishes to provide a clear and solid legal basis for cooperation with Slovenians in place and around the world and for financing their structures and activities by adopting a bill on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. Last year, on 19 December, the Slovenians Office, in place and around the world, issued a regulation on the allocation of funds, and the Legislative Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejected this regulation for one reason: there is no law in this area. The Minister and the Director themselves have expressed the desire that such a law be adopted, especially from their perspective, from this point of view, so that they can also act legally in this area. The Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians, in place and abroad, is a statutory law which regulates in a comprehensive manner the majority of the areas concerned by Slovenians in place and around the world and does not regulate them, or complements those areas which are only partially regulated by existing sectoral legislation. The law thus interferes with the field of culture, science, contains provisions relating to the preservation of Slovenian language and education, economic and regional cooperation and the regulation of the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship and repatriation. Status of Slovenian without Slovenian citizenship. In its basic law, our country has committed itself in the Constitution to the provision of special rights and benefits to Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship by law. It's been 12 years since the adoption of the Constitution. A legal act regulating relations between the Slovenian State and Slovenians in place and around the world and regulating the rights and benefits of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship and the Republic of Slovenia still does not. This is, of course, bad and unacceptable and such a situation must be overcome. The introduction of the special status of Slovenia without Slovenian citizenship is proposed in order to conclude that for many Slovenes outside the Republic of Slovenia the acceptance and ownership of Slovenian citizenship is not the most appropriate form of their connection to the Republic of Slovenia. It is necessary to take into account that the vast majority of Slovenians, without Slovenian citizenship, want to live anywhere, of course to remain loyal to the country in which they are. However, having two citizens could bring them into a variety of embarrassments, moral hardships or other problems. Nationality is an extremely important, binding and complex form of interaction between an individual and a country. Therefore, bi-prudentity or polyprudentity, having two or more statuses of citizenship, of course, may also result in a variety of formal complications. The Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians, so in a moral sense no Slovenian should be treated as a foreigner. In a formal way, of course, the matter is slightly different. If someone is only an ethnic Slovenian and does not have a legal relationship with the Slovenian State, it cannot be treated differently from a foreigner according to the internal and international legal order. This is precisely what we are bridging between the moral, political and legal criteria by introducing the so-called special status. This is, as I have already mentioned, the most controversial point in Article 38, and, of course, we are prepared for this to change as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to do so with the amendment. Repatriation or return. The resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, which was unanimously adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2000, shows that the Republic of Slovenia is interested in returning Slovenian emigrants, natives and also in the immigration of their descendants. The fight for the return of Slovenians and their descendants is given added meaning and meaning in the light of the demographic crisis that is promised to the Republic of Slovenia and indicated by the trend, fully reflected in the results of the last census. Instead of, of course, the population of the Slovenian State being restored mainly by the immigration of the non-Slovenian population, it is reasonable and fitting to attract as many Slovenian natives as possible, expatriates and their descendants. For the Republic of Slovenia in particular, it would be welcome to move young Slovenian families. These are, of course, educated young Slovenian families. We have foreseen in the law that this return is possible or that this repatriation can only be used for one year, three times less than the possible use for refugees. I'm sorry I'm running out of time. For such a system law, it is clearly under 10 minutes. I've asked for 45 minutes as a proposal for a presentation. If I had 20 of them, it would have been easier for me to do my job more correctly. But now I ask you, Members and Members, to also read certain things, not only in terms of articles, but also in explanation, and once again I stress that we are prepared to take into account all the government proposals that would supplement the law. However, I think that the law is a suitable basis, as the Council of State considers, the Commission, which has adopted such a decision that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. I also believe that the national pride of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians who live outside the borders, is a follow-up to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Pukšič, the proposed law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside the borders. I now give the floor to a representative of the government. Ms Jadranka Šturm Kocjan, Director of the Slovenian Office for Slovenians in place and around the world wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, good afternoon! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is of the opinion that it is necessary to regulate the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders and that the intention of the proposer was good. So far, Slovenian legislation has regulated the problems of Slovenians around the world in several sectoral laws, so it is not possible to talk about a legal void, except in the area of financing, which has not been agreed upon so far. However, according to Slovenia's membership in the European Union, it is appropriate to adopt a law which will cover most of the problems in one place. The proposals were partly successful in drafting the law. In particular, they did not foresee the financial consequences of the law, did not take into account the new situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and did not take into account all the dimensions that the special status of Slovenians without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia would bring about in relation to human rights standards. With regard to certain solutions that do not comply with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and European Union legislation, because they violate the Convention on Human Rights, we believe that they cannot be supported to the extent and in the manner proposed. In particular, the law cannot be supported for the following reasons. The law proposes that a Slovenian without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia obtain the status of a Slovenian without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a statement on the Slovenian nationality and locality of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia is not a foreigner. The determination that a Slovenian without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is not considered a foreigner would mean, according to the proposed dictatorship, that such a person is not obliged to submit to the commands applicable to entry and residence in the Republic of Slovenia as well as to all other foreigners. It is worth noting, however, that the Aliens Act specifically provides for persons of Slovenian origin with special benefits which apply to the prescribed length of residence for obtaining a permanent residence permit. Even when proving Slovenian nationality, the law does not lay down the criteria for how to do so, nor does it define how the loyalty of an individual with such status is checked. Otherwise, it has established "loyal to the Republic of Slovenia" unacceptable, as it is unconstitutional and violates several constitutional provisions. Since it is indeterminate, it allows arbitrariness of decision-making, as well as the very word of loyalty, according to our assessment, is extremely controversial, since it includes more expression of dictatorial regimes after the first and second world wars, not the expression of a democratic rule of law that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. The draft law in Article 45 provides for specific rights arising from this status. In particular, the right to enter the Republic of Slovenia without an entry visa is unacceptable from the point of view of consular and visa operations, even if the country of which the beneficiary is a beneficiary has not signed an agreement on visa waiver with our country. The right to enter the country is linked to the European Union's Community Law, which Slovenia has taken over and implemented in the negotiation process. As a special right, Slovenians are granted the right to acquire ownership of land and property by this status. Our Constitution provides in Article 68 that foreigners may acquire property rights on immovable property under the conditions laid down by law, or if so provided by an international contract. If only for some foreigners from individual countries, this law would allow property rights to be acquired on immovable property, they would cause discrimination between nationals of one country. This could also cause this conflict to open up the question that our real estate market should open up to all citizens of the same foreign country. The law also offers priority in employment. It also proposes to acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a rapid procedure, which is contrary to the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the law on the general administrative procedure. The law proposes that older repatriated persons who have contributed significantly to the preservation and development of Slovenia and Slovenian culture abroad be granted recognition in the form of an exceptional minimum pension. We warn that the law in force does not know the pension. In addition to the rights they have under their status, persons with the status of repatriated persons are entitled to health and social protection and some financial social assistance. In addition, the law provides for the reorganisation of the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, the extension of powers, human rights changes as well as certain other institutional changes and, as is said, is not financially granted. It is not in line with domestic law and goes beyond constitutional rights. Of all the above, the government cannot support the bill and is ready to draft its law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u5	We will now hear representatives of the Group. Today, too, he is the first to present the views of the DeSUS Group. Mr Kebrich will report to the parliamentary groups as soon as possible. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We Slovenians have often been in a situation where, for historical or political reasons, we lost part of the national body. This was the first time since the merger of Italy, when we lost Venice of Slovenia in 1866 and continued to evict before and after World War I, in the meantime we experienced a painful loss of Koroška and Primorska with the population and the outflow of the population for economic or political reasons, and they were economic or political immigrants. All of these events took place today where, according to some figures, almost 500,000 Slovenians, some 150,000 of whom live in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia, were living outside the borders of Slovenia. After Slovenia's integration into the EU, the physical barriers at the borders are so virtually eliminated and the movement of people will be smooth, but the basic problems remain more or less the same, both for indigenous minorities and for allohton minorities, these are those created by mass migration for economic or other reasons. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, DeSUS, we believe that it is necessary to adopt a law that will fully regulate the area and the problem that Slovenians face in place and elsewhere in the world. After all, this also requires Article 5 of the Constitution. The bill before us today is an attempt to satisfy the aforementioned Article 5 of the Constitution. On the basis of the text that we have carefully examined, we assess that it is necessary to finalize the law from both a nominal and a substantive point of view. The proposal itself does not specify whether Slovenians who reside in Vienna or in Zagreb, for example, are indigenous Slovenian people or not. The discussion of loyalty, used in the proposal itself, seems to us to be unusual and legally controversial, as it allows arbitrariness of decision-making, and the very word itself belongs to the expression of authoritarian as well as dictatorial regimes, as we have seen between II. World War II. In addition, there are proposals here to define, as in Article 35, a status between a foreigner and a Slovenian citizen. These are things that can cause international problems for Slovenia, as this affects the competence of other countries. It is also problematic and difficult to agree with the provisions of Article 45, which refer to the rights of persons with Slovenian status without Slovenian citizenship, as this would violate Slovenia's own law on foreigners as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. With regard to the possibility for deserving elderly returnees to be granted recognition in the form of a minimum cultural pension, it is necessary to make it clear that the applicable legislation does not know the pension. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we always stand up and speak, and we want this to be respected, that the pension is the only paid right and it is impossible to grant it in the same way. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that such an important law that fulfils the obligations laid down in Article 5 of the Constitution and systematically regulates the area of Slovenians who do not live in the Republic of Slovenia by adopting the widest possible political consensus that will help our fellow citizens and ensure that the mother does not forget them. The proposed text is not, however, and we believe in the Group of Members that it would not even be possible to correct it with amendments in such a way that they could accept it. The comments we have already received from the government and from various ministries are so difficult that we believe that the government should prepare a new system law as soon as possible, and this proposal is a good basis for such work. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. My colleague, Dr. Bernik, will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by his colleague Podobnik. Dr. Bernick's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Director, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today it will turn out that if this National Assembly deserves the old rule of "vox populi vox dei", the voice of the people is the voice of God. However, I do not believe that this will happen if we never relax, we try to act in a little bit in our humanity. So the New Slovenia party welcomes the arrival of this law on relations with Slovenians around the world living outside the borders, and we are pleased that this proposal is on our benches. The Slovenians say we're patient people. The second article of our Constitution guarantees Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship that and now I quote, "that they can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia, the type and extent of these rights and benefits are defined by law." However, it seems that our government people are also relatively slow, as it has taken them more than a dozen years to come up with a bill promised by the Constitution. How was that possible? With our independence, Slovenians around the world have almost completely unitedly supported Slovenian freedom and their country. At least those of us living outside the borders at that time were politically relatively naive, and some were also at home. We thought that we were all Slovenians, ideological differences were supposed to disappear now and that we would connect together into a good state of our own, but we made a terrible mistake. But something's moved. We Slovenians in the world had a minister in the first government. We were promised a law on Slovenian citizenship, then from the Ministry without a portfolio went to the foreign ministry, three civil society received modest funding on the basis of notified projects, but every year there was less money for the cultural, linguistic needs of these Slovenes. And this funding is falling from year to year. On the other hand, it was set up in the previous mandate by the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world and after considerable hesitation also in the current mandate. That's certainly interesting. Just in case, this commission must be sufficient to meet the political needs of government parties, not too much, but so much so that it lives without special progress, substantial progress. However, a declaration on Slovenians in place and in this mandate on Slovenians around the world was adopted in the previous term. Despite our expectations, this latter came across an unexpected opposition to the vote in the National Assembly. The bill before you required a lot of work. And I must say that this is primarily the credit of Commission President Franz Puksic, his professional colleagues, some members of the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, also those members of the Commission who have not seen in the preparation of a proposal for a secret conspiracy against the existing authority. Ever since the previous term, there has been a first proposal of a similar law, which has been drafted by one of the civil societies that operates with Slovenian expatriates, but has not seen the light in the National Assembly all this time. We can ask ourselves why, and with regard to yesterday's discussion, we can figure out what happened. Nevertheless, various government officials have repeatedly promised that they will - in half - prepare an amendment to this first law and submit it to Parliament. Of course, there was absolutely nothing out of that promise. We wonder why the care of Slovenians around the world is necessary. Well, I will not list various reasons, but the answer is simple: they are part of our nation, part of Slovenian roots, Slovenian culture, human beings and more. They proved this by loyalty to the Slovenes, although the vast majority in the highest category had been wiped out, they had been erased for 40 years and more, and we cannot compare them with people who became famous after they began to appear as wiped out. However, despite being erased, they were not acceptable to the Bolshevik Authority in Slovenia. They were under the control of the Judgment. The Slovenian expatriate queen was the institution of the Udba, because they both had the same computer on emigrants around the world. That's what I got at the top of the evict queen of the day. However, in spite of differing views of the world, it was expected that we would find a common language and unite in an effort to improve Slovenia. That's still our wish. However, before this proposal came to the National Assembly, the text went through various filters in ministries. Their comments were forwarded to us by the Secretary-General of the Government, and you have him on the bench. The comments revolve around eight articles of the proposal, various ministries in the bureaucratic language pointing out the various inconsistencies of the law with the articles of our Constitution, with the provisions of other laws, pointing out any violation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Community Treaties and so on. Possible infringements of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union have also been mentioned, in language, as if they could cause serious financial consequences, etc. And that they would also have possible conflicts with other countries. These warnings sound as if they could have the consequences of a terrible nuisance with other countries. The warnings sound, of course, like the former prepared letters from the Secretary-General of the Government, who sent to the National Assembly for consideration laws which did not have any qualifications under the rules of procedure for emergency or any other exceptional procedure. Of course, if such a law is not adopted before 1 May etc., it will always have possible serious consequences for the State. It was a beautiful and cheap thing, political blackmail. Of course, any criticism of such a complex proposal is welcome if it also contains useful guidance. Of course, these are not in the comments. Since the Slovenian stay gave me some insight into our bureaucracy, I should say this. Firstly, nothing happens in Slovenia by chance. If any government official does not like it, he interprets it in his own way, and it is also true that our laws, at least so I think, are written more for state officials, so that they can hide behind what we have done by law, and of course she is a former secretary-general. With this defense, if everything is in the best order we have done according to the law, of course our people are known sometimes, but the media rarely talk about it because they are satisfied with the answers. Well, then the other thing I've learned is to be careful if the government offers you something. We have seen this in countless cases, and I do not believe that this proposal that the government will immediately change the law and then put it into the procedure. Moreover, when the government lists all irregularities about this or conflicts, it never once says, "Oh, we can change that, because this is our law." And yet, we speak as if it were the Holy Scriptures. Nobody thinks we can make a difference to our people. Well, if that's the case, then we know where we are. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to put this proposal through the procedure until further consideration and to process it with experts from various ministries, because this can happen. I think that most of the problems mentioned in this memorandum can be corrected and good lawyers who don't just say what you can't do, but say what you can do most of the time can do it. All that I want to happen to change this law, and that's our citizenship, our humanity requires this from us and our debt to many of our kinsmen. And you'll say we don't have any debt. Let me remind you that the Slovenians would be home and around the world much more if there weren't so many thousands of them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These victims were killed again by the inhumane cheat law on war graves. We can't give them back their lives, but we can give them back their dignity, and we can make amends to those Slovenians in the world who are still alive.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u9	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u10	Let me just say this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u11	Time's up, buddy. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u12	Thank you, but there's something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u13	I can't give you any extra time. You can finish your thought. I'll let anyone do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u14	Okay, I'm gonna finish this, and if you're going to banish me, I'm going to demand civil disobedience.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u15	No, there's no need for civil disobedience. That'll do. [[...]] Time is the same for all of us, including you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u16	It's a shame that people around the world had to talk about Slovenians for a few minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u17	Dr. Bernick's colleague, two and a half hours of debate. Now it's just an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u18	Yeah, yeah, it's fine, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u20	Okay, I'll bring this up. Look at Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, or they haven't had this number in the library since 4 May, says Slovenia one mass grave, and you'll know what people think. I would like, despite these sharp words which I have addressed to you, that this law is suitable for further consideration and I ask you to put some humanity into this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u22	But I'll read it for the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u23	You need to finish because you're two minutes away, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u24	I'll read it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u25	You've been in two minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u26	Sonnet of Škofja Loka [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u27	A colleague of Dr. Bernick's, a colleague of Dr. Bernick's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u28	O Loka thank you for those years, for all the joy, the sun lush, flowers, the treasure of the deep, lasting experience [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u29	Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u30	On a secret fifth song, unscathed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u32	This is Dr. Omar in Argentina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u33	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. Look, don't embarrass the presidents. Time limits apply to all the same. Unlovingness is in all of us who are taking the meeting, interfering with the word, but time is limited, so we have concluded, even for you. Let's move on to the debate. My friend Christmas has the floor. It will present the position of the SLS Group of Members. They are intended for a debate of two and a half hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders, EPA 1249 /III, is the first to be considered, is one of the rare laws in recent months which are not dealt with due to obligations towards the European Union. The area of minority policy is an area consistent with European regulation within the competence of individual members. About half a million Slovenians live outside the country, so it is important that we cooperate with organisations whose aim is to preserve Slovenian language, culture, roots and also the economy. We assess that minority issues need to be regulated by law and thus fulfil the constitutional obligation. In 2002, we adopted a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, which is certainly a positive contribution to the further strengthening of the country's relations with relatives around the world. The resolution and the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries from 1996 are on their way to the adoption of a special law. The implementation of the tasks set out in the resolution relating to cooperation with Slovenians in place and around the world is currently hampered by the lack of an adequate legal basis. The adoption of a statutory law would allow the competent authorities to carry out their tasks and objectives in a consistent manner. It should also be noted that the entry into European integration opens up new opportunities for cooperation between the Slovenian national community in place and the country of the home nation. Particular attention should be paid to the participation of the Slovenians in political life, the greater integration of Slovenian minorities and the greater economic link between the Slovenians and Slovenia. For all of us, now that Slovenia has become a full member of the European Union, it is extremely important that we are aware that common knowledge and the market will be the greatest marriage to our common life in the European Union. In our view, another aspect should be mentioned which indicates the purpose of the adoption of the law, which would deal in one place with the subject of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia. The importance of Slovenia's participation with other countries in the field of culture, education, economies is mentioned on various occasions. In doing so, we must not forget the Slovenians who live outside the borders of our country and who can be an important factor in our success through their knowledge of other systems. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the purpose of adopting a roof law should not hinder any issue. The proposed law itself has certain shortcomings. We believe that the preparation did not take sufficient account of Slovenia's membership in the European Union and of the consequences. I have also been asked to present today the opinion of the Commission on International Relations and European Affairs of the Council of State on the proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders. At their 13th session, on 5 May 2004, the proposal was discussed and written as follows: "In the debate, members were of the opinion that this law is necessary, as it is the basis for greater and stronger integration of Slovenians in substitution and in the world with Slovenia." They also considered that our country should work to strengthen the number of representatives of Slovenian nationality and should facilitate the experts of Slovenian origin to come or return to Slovenia, since it has now done more for Slovenians outside its borders than for the return of Slovenian people to Slovenia. The members of the Commission also drew attention to some of the shortcomings of the current draft law. The law must not give or give priority to returning Slovenians to Slovenia and allow them better living conditions than the Slovenian citizens who live here. The Commission also draws attention to the inadequacy of the financing of certain rights offered by law to returning Slovenians, such as health and pension insurance, and calls on the legislator to ensure that the area is properly regulated. At the same time, the Commission points out that this issue is very important to us and that there is much work to be done on it, particularly within the framework of the Commission on International Relations and European Affairs, and it would therefore be appropriate to include the assistance of the Council of State and the Council of State in this law. Finally, they adopted a decision, "the Commission considers that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration". The proposal for a law regulating the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders is, in our opinion, necessary to adopt. Unfortunately, our Slovenian government has not even been able to prepare in so many years, and this proposal will need to be worked out and some adjustments or other solutions will need to be prepared before the new adoption. Finally, I would like to add one of my thoughts, which is - that we will not have to speak later, in this Chamber, and also in various sessions - whether all of us who are participating today and will decide on this law are aware that some parts inhabited by Slovenians have no more schools in the Slovenian language since 1914, nor do politicians visit them. And when we vote about it, think about it, it's better to have a little worse marriage than we've had for more than ten years and not accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u35	Thank you very much, buddy Christmas. Mr Ašić will present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy, followed by his colleague Bevk from the United List, then there are two group representatives and a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u36	Good-bye! We participated in the preparation of this law, or we wanted to participate in the final design of the LDS, as far as we were given, in the parliamentary group or in the LDS. And also for reasons, because the truth is that it lives outside the Republic of Slovenia, according to various estimates, about 500 000 Slovenes and has about 60 000 citizenship and permanent residence outside Slovenia. It is also true that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 5 for the care of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and for Slovenian residents and expatriates. While the provision of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries is more precisely defined by the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 1996 and the resolution on relations with Slovenians worldwide adopted in this mandate. The permanent importance of life and the interest of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the preservation of the national identity and identity of the Slovenian people. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible to take into account the common interests of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenians around the world and to upgrade them with this. The adoption of a suitable law would certainly be a step in this direction. In the LDS Group, we discussed the first draft, the draft law as well as the second draft law and made a number of comments and also suggestions on how it should be better regulated. These comments are interestingly similar to some of the comments made by the ministries, in particular the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself. However, for reasons unknown to us, these comments have not been taken into account. In fact, when we requested a meeting of the Commission before the introduction of the law into the parliamentary procedure, there were also certain positions and observations raised, but nevertheless the law was put into the procedure, but unfortunately without the signature of two members of the commission from the type of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Our comments referred to those we have already heard today. They referred to the financial consequences of the law, that they were practically absent or neglected. We estimate that they are important and that they must be defined as such. We have also, of course, pointed out that, of course, it is essential to ensure that Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must adopt a law for Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship, but of course the remaining areas regulated by the relevant other laws and regulations and resolutions must be harmonised so that this does not lead to internal conflict in the legal system and order in the Republic of Slovenia. That's what happened. In our view, of course, it is particularly problematic that the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians around the world should be renamed a committee - this is not disputed yet - but this committee should be established under this law. This is totally contrary to the rules of procedure on the work of the National Assembly, where permanent and occasional working bodies are appointed by the National Assembly. This would be the only committee that would have a completely different status than the other national councils. It would be established by law, but we know that the Rules of Procedure are also adopted by a two-thirds majority, and there is already a certain discrepancy here. The same goes for the government office, where it would have happened in the same way as it was supposed to have happened to the committee. This would be the only government office established by law. All other offices formed in the Republic of Slovenia are formed on the basis of a government regulation, in accordance with the law. While the bill does not bring significant news to Slovenians living outside the borders, it is now regulated in many regulations, in the constitution, in the Rules of the National Assembly, in the Law on Foreign Affairs, in the Law on State Administration, in the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, in the Law on Registration of Elections, in the Law on Foreign Affairs, in the Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners, in the Law on Foreigners, in the Law on Foreign Affairs, in the Law on Foreign Affairs, in the Law on the Organization and Financing of Education and Education, in the Law on the Realisation of Cultural Interests in the Resolution on Relations of Slovenes around the World and in the Resolution on the Situation of Indigenous Slovenian Minorities. So it is not true that we do not have almost all the solutions in our legislation. I warn you, however, we do not have a solution for Slovenians without citizenship, which requires the Constitution itself and also our internal legal order. In the LDS Group, we note that our comments that we have made during the drafting of the law or since the working draft of this law was made available and taken into account, are also quite similar to that of the government, which rejects the law. The government opinion also refers to a number of other areas which are in conflict with the existing legal order. In particular, it should be supported by a separate opinion or an opinion drawn up by the Government for European Affairs on the basis of the government's adopted opinion, which notes that the principle of the prohibition of discrimination is not taken into account in this law or that positive discrimination, which is otherwise permitted, is written in such a way as to lead to its contradiction and inequality. I think that this is an extremely important conclusion that affects the fact that we will decide in our parliamentary group and we will not support the law. We regret that the motioners also did not listen to yesterday's call to reconsider whether it is politically wise to insist on today's consideration of this law, as Minister Rupel and his team have also tried to convince the President of the Commission to use in some way the only business option not to deal with the law today is to withdraw the signatures; there is no other option. The finding that a law such as this cannot be upgraded in the second reading with amendments - because it is necessary to write a completely new law - is the one that makes us not support the law. However, to insist, of course, that the government fulfils the promise set out in its opinion and report that it will prepare a new law as soon as possible in the event that this law does not go through the procedure today. It's written in the government's position, and I hope that's true. This was also confirmed today by a government representative, the secretary of state, who is present. However, we reject any politics around this law. We reject the views expressed in the positions of the President of the Slovenian Relations Commission around the world, who, through the STA, announces that the government fears the Slovenians around the world. I think that we have so far both the LDS Group and the government, which led the country's majority participation in the Liberal Democracy, to prepare and create many important conditions for maintaining the cultural position and values of Slovenians around the world. I take this opportunity before I conclude to welcome the establishment of the Slovenian Minority Coordination Club, which was established on 22 April, on behalf of the LDS. It was established by the Association of Slovenians in Hungary, the Association of Slovenian Associations in Croatia, the Association of 7th Article from Austria, the National Council of Korean Slovenes from Koroška, the Association of Slovenian Organisations from Koroška, the Council of Slovenian Organisations and the Slovenian Cultural Economic Union from Italy, without our voluntary assistance, on their own initiative, proving that there are no differences between them and that they have clear and clear views on how we must organise ourselves in a future common Europe. Once again, unfortunately, we won't be able to support the marriage. However, we expect to receive a new proposal on the table in a very short time, in line with comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u37	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. Mr Bevk will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Taking care of Slovenians living outside its borders is a constitutional category. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia explicitly states that the State is concerned about indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates and locals and promotes their contacts with the country. In the second paragraph, it is stated that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia, the type and scope of which are determined by law. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this kind of legislation is necessary, and in our view a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders is necessary in terms of state and policy. The law by voting to accept or reject it would not be good and would not benefit anyone, at least it would benefit the Slovenians both in place and in the world. This sensitive area would also become just a hub for another political debate that brought Slovenian people and citizens of our Republic together, rather than bringing us closer together in the national assembly. I also have doubts because this point is at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which, according to most agenda items, is highly politically and pre-eminently motivated. For you all know that in the pre-election atmosphere in which we have already fallen very deeply, it is very difficult, especially in the National Assembly, where all the political party rainbows are gathered, to discuss objectively. Whether or not each of us wants to admit it or not, he enters into his performance some demagogism, populism and even client accounts. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have also had concerns about the technology and creation of this law. As you know, all members of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, should submit the law to the parliamentary procedure. This is also what the commission president, colleague Pukšič proposed to us. However, since this is an extremely demanding legal project affecting a number of areas, I have not contributed to my signature. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law should be dealt with differently, more thoughtfully and more professionally. Such a text, as signed by Mr Pukšič, Mr Bernik, Mr Podobnik and some other fellow Members, is more like a resolution than a real and accurately written law. Therefore, my well-intentioned proposal was to have the law dealt with by the Commission and to improve the text so that it could also be signed by the members of the Commission from the United List of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Unfortunately, despite the Commission's consideration, there was not enough political readiness on the right side of our Parliament to allow the law to be signed by representatives of all parliamentary parties. Not only that, but also the representative of the Slovenian National Party withdrew his signature. The law interferes with the Constitution, interferes with a number of laws, interferes with existing government regulations, establishes new bodies and institutions, has considerable financial obligations that are not defined in the law and could also be listed. For this reason, we have proposed that before the start of the parliamentary procedure we obtain the opinion of the government or individual government departments responsible for foreign affairs, culture, education, internal affairs and others. It would also be useful to have a preliminary opinion from the National Legislative and Legislative Service. Thus today, we are faced with a number of comments about almost every article of the law. Let me remind you that just before the laborers we had in the parliamentary procedure also a 1998 law, this is a law on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. The law that we are considering today is essentially spreading and bearing another name. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks exclusively of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship and says so [[Quote]] : "Slovakia without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. The type and extent of these rights and benefits shall be laid down by law." [[End of quote.]] I also think that this issue needs to be clarified. In the course of this debate, mention should be made of the working material prepared by the Centre of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, entitled Review of legislation in the Republic of Slovenia relating to Slovenians in place and around the world, i.e. to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent or temporary residence abroad and to Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. In addition to the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure, this issue is addressed by 28 other sectoral laws, and I will not mention them, since some of them have already been mentioned earlier by my colleague, and in addition to the two resolutions adopted by us in the National Assembly in 1996 and 2002. Both resolutions were also fully supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. There are also a number of international agreements and treaties. In view of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which we received at the table, despite the fact that the applicant's intentions were good, it would be best to withdraw the bill from the procedure before the initiation of the hearing itself. In the Group of Members of the United Nations List of Social Democrats, we want the law to be adopted by consensus so that no vote can take place. This is the way we have worked for almost 8 years in our commission, which I was a member of when we addressed the issue of Slovenians in place and around the world and respected the state principle. However, this can only be done in the light of the government's view, in which it commits itself to drawing up a new proposal for a law as soon as possible. The government also considers that the law in its current form is not suitable for consideration in the National Assembly and that the United Social Democrats Group is also joining this. The law did not foresee financial consequences. It did not take into account the new situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the dimensions that the status of the Slovenians of statelessness would bring in relation to human rights standards. At the same time, the Government notes that a number of solutions are inconsistent with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and European Union legislation and violate the Convention on Human Rights. Nevertheless, the government commits itself to preparing a new law. For this reason, we will vote in the House of Members of the United List of Social Democrats in favour of the conclusion that the text of the law is not a suitable basis for a further basis, but we will do our utmost to ensure that the government law comes into government procedure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My colleague Peče obviously has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He will be followed by his colleague, Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u40	Respectable present. In the beginning, I was asked by a representative of a young colleague's Party, Diaca, to inform you that they do not have the time declared to withdraw their signature from the law. However, by presenting the views of the Slovenian National Party Group, I would like to begin in person. I personally assess that we do not need committees of foreign nationals around the world. I also assess that in this case, the Commission is exclusively concerned with some kind of political or parliamentary tourism. As regards the position of the national party, we share a position with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased that, at least in these areas, we can agree with the government in the following points. First time. We can say that this is an inappropriate content of the bill. Another time. In order to make sense of Slovenian relations with Slovenians beyond our borders, it is necessary to arrange them in a different way, especially with a different content of the law. As far as the law is concerned, we have quite a few concerns within the national party's parliamentary group First time. We estimate that the law itself is generally viewed in contravention of article 14 of the Constitution, that the law is largely flawed in terms of financial consequences. Although it is an attempt to approximate the financial implications, it is nothing more than a poor attempt. According to our assessment, the contents of the bill are also intended to interfere with the legislation of other countries. However, as far as individual articles are concerned, I must stop at Article 35 of the bill, which, according to our assessment, constitutes an infringement of jurisdiction or of the law of foreign countries. Furthermore, Article 36, which is also controversial after our assessment of triggering the issue of individual judgment, is also, according to our assessment, contrary to the category of generality of the legal act. In paragraph 42 below, we estimate that its content is already defined in the very Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the content of Article 45 of the said Act, which is defined or contrary to the law on foreigners. We also cannot substantively agree with Articles 47, 50, 54, i.e. the content of these Articles. However, as regards the whole of the law or the general view of the bill, we must find the following in the national party's parliamentary group. Firstly, the law discriminates against Slovenian citizens, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also assesses it. In the second general comment of the national party, therefore, according to our assessment, it is an intervention in the sovereignty of foreign countries, which Slovenia cannot afford if we want to be at least a little credible. We also estimate that the law is totally unacceptable in Articles 52 to 72, i.e. in the articles of the so-called return. The introductory provision of this Chapter, Article 52, begins or requires the Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens of our country to organise and finance the return of people. But we all know, as a rule, or I sincerely hope that we know what kind of people they are, hiding under the tactics of people living outside our borders. In 2000, when the law came before the National Assembly, he was also signed by a colleague Bogdan Barovic of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He withdrew his signature. It should be stressed, however, that the law was not signed for consent or acceptance of its contents, but, above all, for consenting to speak about motherhood. I personally assess that this is progress in our parliamentary democracy, that a specific parliamentary group, and I would be happy if this would prevail for the entire national assembly, allowing or even helping to discuss things that are not after the year. This is precisely because of what happened last week, when you know that you tried to limit the debate when we talked about corruption. And let me just say that if I start by looking at the matter personally, I have to end it. It has been said that the care of the Slovenians is very important. That's right. In a way, we could label this concern as a kind of important concern. However, I believe that this concern or concern should be far, far, far behind for the care of Slovenian citizens. As we in the National Party estimate that in this Parliament we are poor in caring for Slovenian citizens or Slovenians within borders, i.e. in the Republic of Slovenia, we also give priority to the laws that touch the materials of people living here, who have been loyal to our country in the past, both in all wars and who we believe are proud to be citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason and for the reasons given in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will not give our support to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u41	We will hear the last position, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. He will be presented by his colleague, Janez Janša, and will also conclude a presentation of the views of the groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this law. We note that it has been 12 years since the 5th Article of the Slovenian Constitution states that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship living around the world have a specific right under the law. These 12 years have been in power for more or less the same political option. Many secretaries of state, directors or directors of Slovenian offices, in place and around the world, have been paid greasy wages at this time. No one made the law. Therefore, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is extremely cynical that those who have been paid to prepare the law now, to someone who has finally drafted this law, have seen negligence, labour shortages and so on. Dear Mrs. Sturmova, you have been paid to prepare such a law, and you are not. That is why I expect more seriousness from the government, we expect that state officials will finally earn their wages and work, not malign the Members who work for them. The law proposed may not be ideal. We are surprised that some who have withdrawn their signatures from the law have not learned this before to sign things they do not know what they are, obviously according to what we have heard, but so far in this National Assembly we have adopted many of the laws proposed by the Government and to which, in the second reading, the government itself has made over 100 amendments. Here, however, we have come to the view that this law cannot be rectified in the follow-up procedure. Although only a few changes have been proposed. When it came to system laws with 100 members, and the government proposed a procedure for hundreds of amendments, we received material with 400 pages of amendments on the table, there was room for repair, but there was no way to fix it. That's certainly not true. You gave us a few minutes to discuss this law, and in this regard, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is protesting again. Members of the government coalition convened three extraordinary meetings for deleted persons, dedicated hours and hours of discussions on so-called deleted persons, and 10 minutes for Slovenes around the world, after 12 years of this right being enshrined in the Constitution. Here at this point, what we have actually heard from members of the government coalition when it comes to the Slovenians is a "blueninboden" debate and so on. But when it comes to being erased, there are human rights. On these foundations, the Slovenian state will never make any progress. Practice in other countries teaches us that practically native nations in their countries do the best they can to remain connected to fellow citizens living around the world. If Slovenia had not had hundreds of thousands of people around the world who had felt its roots and helped it with international recognition at a time when it had gained independence from the world, it would not have gone as smoothly as it had been. Hundreds of thousands of activities were carried out by our cousins at a time when the country needed this most. Rare among them ever got a confession. The former President of the State granted freedom to Mr De Michellis, who opposed Slovenian independence and international recognition, but did not grant any recognition to many who actively worked for international recognition and even achieved in many countries that Slovenia was quickly recognised. The fearsome cynicism of representatives of the Slovenian state in the past! This stepmotherly attitude towards the Slovenians who live around the world is, of course, not only to those who do not have Slovenian citizenship, but also to those who have citizenship. We have recently received a number of notifications on how the State Election Commission informs citizens living around the world of their ability to vote by post. Many citizens in the United States never get this mail because it is sent to the wrong addresses or the address is written in Slovenian and American mail, which does not yet have ultra technology from Slovenian Ultra, of course it reads it computerically; and if it says "USA" instead of "USA", what you write or write, then these addressees don't get this mail. This is where they say it's sent and people don't answer, and people don't get it. We've had a lot of cases like this. It is, therefore, a deliberate discrimination, not only against Slovenians in the world without citizenship, but also against those who have citizenship. And there is a policy that has shared people for 50 years, even during Slovenia's independent period. Over 60,000 Slovenians around the world have Slovenian citizenship, they can participate in elections perhaps several thousand because others are hardly informed. With regard to the proposed law, which finally came to the bench, we also expected constructiveness from those who should have been paid for it to prepare this law but did not. Instead, we are almost listening to insults against those who have worked in their place. We expected to receive specific comments. This marriage is probably not as ideal as anyone else, so anyone can be fixed. But no, instead, we also got one letter that says everything. The deputy of the government party, who is the vice-president of the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world, sent a letter where he wanted to or reluctantly said the point: it is not so much about the content of the law, but it is about proposing. In this letter, Mr Auschwitz calls on the proposers to resign from their proposal. It bothers you. The fact that someone made a final law after 12 years, and that there was no government option under the law, because in the 12 years you failed to prepare it yourself, or you didn't want to prepare it, even though many were paid for it. A lot of tax money was spent on that salary. It has been prepared by the Members, who are not the right ones, and now you ask them to give up their proposal and then everything will be fine. Such a low understanding of parliamentary democracy in this country, from what it exists, has probably not been, and this at a point where we should actually go beyond divisions where people who live outside or without Slovenian citizenship and feel Slovenians already have significantly more access to these divisions than a government coalition is able to do. We expect that there will be a sober reflection once again that the law will support the follow-up procedure, that those who have specific comments will cooperate with them in this procedure, and that we will finally get a text which, after 12 years, will finally determine which rights Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship living around the world have under the Slovenian Constitution are also guaranteed in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u43	With your performance, Comrade Janš, we have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Some will give up this option, some will not. I'll go straight without calling, and whoever's in the hall will get the chance. My friend Kovtičnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am a member of the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, and I have been actively involved throughout the Commission, where we have various decisions and also various sub-legislative acts, resolutions, etc. adopted by consensus and without a vote until recently. That's what I have to say. I am not against the legal regulation of the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians who live outside its borders. However, I am against the non-compliance of the proposal with the Slovenian legal regime. And that's what this proposal is. My colleague, Auschwitz, has very clearly pointed out the shortcomings, as well as his colleague Bevk, has added to them, which are enshrined in the law, so I will not repeat it myself. I am convinced that, at this moment, the rights of the Slovenians living outside our borders are sufficiently being taken care of. I believe that if we do not adopt the law at this moment in an extraordinary session - I repeat, in an extraordinary session - we will not compromise the position of Slovenians outside Slovenia, and even less the preservation of Slovenian culture, traditions and Slovenian language, which is essentially what we are talking about. There is quite a bit of legislation in the various areas governing this matter. These have already been mentioned in the previous submissions, so I will not specifically list them. I would like to recall, however, that this content is covered by two resolutions adopted in the National Assembly: a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, a resolution on the situation of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries and related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia. The only area currently insufficiently regulated is the area of funding for these activities. I am convinced that this problem could be solved by complementing the sectoral legislation and by understanding more about the problem in the adoption of annual budgets. I believe that there is no reason to rush into amending such an important law, especially if it is not adopted by consensus because it deserves time and precise preparation. However, I would like to draw attention to another problem that has recently been present on the Commission and has not yet appeared. As a result, however, it probably also affects the fact that the law is quite unprepared to come to Parliament, even at an extraordinary meeting. In the last three and a half years we have not been used to the new wind, unfortunately, in the work of the Commission. The Commission is expected to address the whole problem of organising Slovenians, their political definition and even who is associated with whom, when and where. This is unacceptable to me and to some members of the Commission. Until recently, this has also been unacceptable to all members of the Commission. In our work so far, we have followed the guidelines that it is important for us to help Slovenes and Slovenians living outside Slovenia to ensure conditions for maintaining Slovenian culture, tradition and Slovenian language. And, of course, to warn the country where Slovenians live as a community, to respect their rights as enshrined in their laws. We have consistently done this to all members and the Commission. I absolutely reject any involvement of the members of the Commission in the policy of working and organising Slovenians living outside Slovenia. Since the pre-election spirit has also crept into the work of our commission, I am convinced that now is not the time to change the bill, which in my view would be more harmful than the benefit of the Slovenes and the Slovenians who live outside our borders. I've been pointing out this problem lately at the board meetings, but as the saying goes, the dogs are barking, the caravan is moving on. For this reason, I also refused to participate in a commission delegation to the Slovenians in Canada, because with some reckless statement at this time, the dispute between the Slovenians, which would have long-lasting consequences, could be sparked. It is no stranger to us that Slovenians have been separated from each other in place and around the world because of different views and political orientations. This has led to the establishment of different communities, and this has harmed them as well as, of course, us who want Slovenian culture to develop and preserve beyond Slovenia. In view of the events of recent weeks, I cannot shake the feeling that some want to use Slovenians who live in place and around the world to achieve political goals. I do not want to participate in this alone, so I will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague, Sylvie Crnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I was surprised to see in the draft rapporteur's proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders. I am aware that this issue of all Slovenians living outside Slovenian borders is very important and that it needs to be regulated in a comprehensive manner in such a way that all the arbitrators involved will be satisfied. On the one hand, the country, most certainly, also those who live outside their homeland. Given the fact that I actually have a large number of relatives who are very active and live outside the borders of Slovenia, some have gone and left their birthplace before World War I, some since World War I, some between two wars, some just after World War II, in the late 50s and early 1960s. The reasons why they left their home, their homeland, are different. In most cases, economic reasons, as well as the fact that some in their desire to have more knowledge, have gained more education, have gone far to America. I have a cousin who is also enrolled in the book of 100 Slovenian scientists, Dr Anton Mavretič and actively cooperated and participated in all of these times, before and after independence. Similarly, the Commission had the opportunity to meet Tin Montenegro, which as a professor in Brazil and for decades the director of the large company Siemens contributed greatly to the improvement of this relationship. I have missed this marriage, and I miss the actual opinion that these Slovenians who are outside the borders of our country actually want. Do we even know that? Did the bill get their wishes, opinions, and initiatives? What they actually expect from their homeland. Whether we are actually or a candidate may be too ambitious in defining this in some segments. You know the Slovenians who live outside our borders are now happy that Slovenia is a single country and is part of the European Union. Some, including my relatives, arrived on April 30th and rejoiced with us. But what do they want? They do not want as much as we do or as Mr Pukšič suggests in this proposal. They simply want to have the opportunity to contact their motherland, to have the opportunity to educate or educate their children, to preserve culture and tradition, and not least to get any financial support for learning the Slovenian language, because they know and realize how difficult it is to keep it in all these years when they live abroad. Finally, I must say that they were very surprised, and there are many who do not understand why they have gained electoral rights. Why is this a consistent practice that occurs in all transition countries? It is clear to them that in their homeland, where they live, create and work, they have this right to vote. How and how they will determine how they will be informed is very difficult. Many who have obtained this right do not take advantage of it, not because they do not have the opportunity, because they have not received it in time, well, some of them also do not get an electoral ticket in time, but simply consider that they do not have this right to intervene in one way or another in the internal affairs of our country, because they also actively do not participate in any way in creating and creating, not least in income and in creating taxes. The wishes of those living outside of Slovenia are very different. In most cases, however, they are also focused on how and how to support the operation of these societies, how to enable and help their homeland, because their desire is and most of them have already helped and are satisfied. And it is not true that everyone is dissatisfied with this contact that their motherland has. Many are very active in cooperation. It is important that the law also regulates how their activity abroad will be marked here, how some of the great achievements of some of our very well-known Slovenians will be preserved in museums or in certain brochures, books and so on for other generations. So much for a little while. We'll give Bevka the rest of the minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I must say that in a way I am very disappointed at the way in which you are in ruling parties, as well as some outsides, have shown to the matter arising from constitutional matter, to the law resulting from the constitutional provision. You have continued to point out that you are against politicisation, but you are going solely to politicisation on the basis of the assumptions that I thought you would survive. Unfortunately, the infamous principles of cultural warfare have been established here. Divisions, separations of Slovenians, not only in the country, but also in substitution. I regret and note that in the parties to the government coalition, and perhaps also in the party known as the national, the principles and attitudes towards the Slovenes have prevailed in the replacement and the emigrants, which stem from the roots of the well-known musical positions and the policies of separation and division of Slovenians. Such promotion of sectarianism and division is unheard of. I regret that, before radically dogmatic elements in these parties, which draw their roots from these surviving principles of the past, Minister Rupel also had to give in and stay away from Minister Rupel, although he supported the initiative of the law, and that now this government coalition and you all say that the law cannot be amended, supplemented. It's such a hoax! I wonder whether those who are destined for this law, whose status must also be regulated under the Constitution, will long be interested in identifying themselves with the Slovenian identity on the basis of the relationship you are showing here. Will they, on the basis of what we were able to see yesterday in this National Assembly, when you marched on the principles of democracy when you broke the law on the commission of inquiry, be able to declare themselves proud of their roots of the Slovenian nation? I'm afraid it won't be an attribute in the countries where they live. Look, this is where you denied the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, and today we hear that, say, the American Defence Minister is already in a hearing before the Senate, about things that happened a few days ago, and that there will be an investigative commission that will have absolute power. And you're totally different. Walk everything. Is it not a shame in this law that we come with such symbolic messages from this meeting? That "afront" you reject everything that was written here. That you are forced to do so by some colleagues, who I personally do not think are thinking that they have done well on the Slovenian Commission around the world and that you have now politicized this committee to such an extent. I am also sorry that this is the way that colleague Ašič has turned here with a public letter to the Members. It would be better to sign this letter, as in yesterday's Journal, with an invalid signature that it is the mayor of Brežice. It would be better to sign on behalf of the Mayor of Brežica, which is not, but it would almost be better for the reputation of this Parliament to sign. Look, and for twelve years, we all agree that such a roof law should be adopted. And now that it's on the table, now you're looking away, from the position of cultural combat, you're rejecting everything that was done on the committee. I believe, on the basis of your relationship yesterday, and several times already stated that you are afraid of legal regulations. That it's just larifari, what we accept and what you say. Look, this law provides for media coverage. I am aware that the state and that authority do not comply with the law on the sound and visibility of Slovenian programmes in lieu of ignoring this for years. Madam Secretary of State will be able to confirm this when the consul was in Trieste. And instead of everyone trying to move this wagon forward a little bit, we send them wrong messages to be interested in Slovenian identity among people coming from the Slovenian people. Here you send udbov messages that have shared Slovenian expatriates, natives and long-term residents The law states how to preserve Slovenian language, how to help expatriates, natives, foreigners. These are absolutely necessary things. Although I believe that it is possible in Article 79, which discusses how to share these funds financially, with the role of the Slovenian Committee of Foreign Slovenians, that an additional communication may have to be recorded. In fact, all Slovenian organisations in place do not have the same attitude towards the Slovenian language. Some have recently also been compacted with very strange political groups and say that the Slovenian language is only folklore and is no longer needed. I think that a differentiation should be made here, supported and not financially supported on the basis of such views. You're also stuck in repatriation. We have written this down in the resolution on foreign policy, and I myself have proposed such a dictatorship. There was little in this area that was done on this side. And, of course, today we hear from the towers that they will be able to return to a white place. I think that, at the expense of Slovenian emigrants, such sad qualifications are heard in this national assembly, it is shameful. Shameful are the messages that come from your mouth and you send them to five hundred thousand people who are originally Slovenians! You gave them up, like after World War II, for example, by evicting a belt at the Coroz border, the country of that time gave up. With that eviction in 1949 or 1945, she sent a clear message to the Austrians: do what you want with the Korean Slovenes, because we do much worse with our Slovenian citizens. And you send such messages today from this National Assembly. I ask that you change your mind, that this marriage goes forward, and that we finish it. I am not saying that the law is ideal, that it may also have some illegal things to harmonise but do not speak - Hungarian law is significantly more radical and it is known that Hungary is each in place of raising its child and teaching him a Hungarian language that is much harder. This is not legal for Slovenian emigrants, and only where there was some strong national pride, as in Argentina, this has been preserved. And because you have such a relationship with such a marriage, it can be significantly worse in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u49	Jože Ashitch wanted a replica because he was challenged.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u50	In fact, Mr President, I am of the view that you have made an unacceptable mistake because my colleague Jerovšek responded to my position on behalf of the Club of Members. That's not a problem. No, no, that's not a problem. Second. Regarding yesterday's mistake in the journal, I have a written apology from the editor that the error caused by the editorship is a mistake and will be corrected. There's gonna be a fix. I don't think this case has anything to do with the issue of Slovenian law around the world. I don't know why Mr Jerovšek always goes somewhere when he's talking and he's entwining everything, just not where it really takes a lot more wisdom than he shows, but he does, but he probably doesn't want to show it. Around the opinions and views of this law and the view of Mr Puksič on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u51	It's not a replica anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u52	Okay, I'll do O. [[...]] K., I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I haven't made any procedural mistakes, and I'm not getting any more replicas. No, no, no. If he mentioned it, there's no reason for the replica. He understood you correctly. [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] [[...]] He can call you seven times, but he didn't get you wrong, he understood you perfectly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u54	Replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u55	In what way did he misinterpret you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u56	Please don't deny me my rights. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u57	Here you go. You've already taken it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President! You are continuing yesterday's practice when all the rules of democracy in this national assembly have been violated, and also Mr Ašič has unfortunately had strange opinions and a strange interpretation of democratic processes. He sends us a letter to the table, and I'm not supposed to have an opinion on this letter. What will be your attitude, your knowledge? How do you try to humiliate the opposition? You send a letter, you convince people, Members of Parliament, but a Member who has the same, equal legal status should not have a position. Yes, Mr. Auschwitz, that you may utter such a thing! I'm grateful that someone might hear what you have to do with democracy. But that's in terms of what you did yesterday. These are no longer democratic duties, this is the introduction of a dictatorship. With the shriveled law on parliamentary investigation, a small coup was committed yesterday and you continue this coup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u59	I'm giving the word to Davorin Tarchoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is necessary to say, Mr Vice President, please calm down this hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u61	I'm asking my colleagues to leave the debater to his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u62	Thank you very much. It must be said that many years ago I had seen some approximation of this law, which was very similar, not identical. He enrolled in the World Slovenian Congress. Several corrected proposals were then made by Members, for example, from the right-wing option, Mr Hvalica was among them, the former President of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians around the world, Mr Šifrer, putting into parliamentary procedure. I, gentlemen, wonder why, because this law was very similar to why you did not take this law and push it forward at the beginning of the mandate, but you remembered after four years that there were Slovenians somewhere and that something should be promised before the elections. But if we're going to make a difference between this marriage. The main difference is that there was no repatriation in the law at the time, because there was no crisis in South America and that there were different criteria for obtaining Slovenian status without Slovenian citizenship. At that time, the criteria were relative, and they said that one who was in some knee, third or fourth, after the parents of the Slovene could gain status. The criteria for who the Slovene is are questionable to every nation. Some take the language as a criterion, which is the most identification mark for Slovenians others take family ties, some just consciousness. And in this law is this change that you have taken as a criterion only consciousness. Article 36 says, in the first indent, who gets the status. One who recognises belonging to the Slovenian people and is loyal to the Republic of Slovenia. That's enough. It is said that anyone who declares that he is loyal and that he belongs must be active in Slovenian organisations and so on. But the 41st article says what kind of evidence he has to give to the office. And he says he has to give proof of Slovenian nationality. Now I don't know what that means anymore. But it's just a statement, but it's proof of family ties. If this is proof of kinship, why didn't you write it as it was in the first marriage? But if this is just a statement, I ask myself: What is your goal anyway? In repatriation, you then introduce a home for immigration, social assistance and so on. But if he holds what you wrote down, then anyone who is conscious and professes to be a Slovenian and joins the organizations of evicts or foreigners there can gain this status. Anyone who is a social case in South America or in the former Yugoslavia who once drove peppers to Slovenia will be able to make that statement and will be repatriated. And the Slovenian taxpayers will pay for it. I'm sorry, but it's written like this. It's just one flower. There's something else. Visa system. We know that the visa system is linked to international treaties, to international law that is directly applicable in Slovenia and cannot conflict with this law. You're saying we're saying the law can't be fixed. The marriage can be fixed. I'm not saying it can't be fixed, but it's such a bad basis that it's pointless to go with him. Earlier, someone had said that it would make sense for us to somehow get a consensus and that we are going with consensus to define ourselves to the issue of this law, which he is going to end up with the constitution. But you don't do that. Mr Pukšič had been makin' this marriage for a long time, looking for some consensus when he was alerted to the real problems that were written in here, he put it in himself at the pre-election time to do the 'gallama'. We know that. Like this whole amazing session. It is necessary to show who is ugly, who is bad Slovenian in Slovenia, and in this case out of Slovenia, to make promises as with certain laws on food subsidies, on the promotion, reduction of unemployment in municipalities where it is highest, to define in a flat-rate manner the 15 billion that we will give in our minds. Of course, there are a lot of problems if we gave it all away, the budget would immediately be emptyed. And the joy of the election. But, Madam Vice President, I ask you to calm them down. I have the right to do so. [[...]] That's not how you do it. This is your way of advertising, but I'll tell you that it's a bad way to advertise, and that we could change tactics once. This is where big promises fall, and these great promises can lead to great disappointments among the Slovenes in their replacements and evictions. This law brings nothing but flaws. He's talking about supporting sports, culture, education, which we already have. It does not define the status, it introduces a new institution and greater bureaucracy. This cannot be a legal basis. I am reminding you of another law that has been passed, because some on this side have also said that it is better to accept it, that they will not scream that we have anything against the Slovenians. This is the law on ensuring the visibility and visibility of our RTV programs. At that time, I warned, it was accepted, Mr Praise proposed, it was accepted, and today, instead, they still do not see television. Because I warned you what the problem was. The problem is that there was no agreement between the government and the institution of RTV Slovenia and the problem is that it is simply not possible to give the rector to foreign sovereign territory because Slovenia does not have these competences. Since this was not understood, a law was passed that meant nothing. You don't really mean it either, but you're doing politics. So this marriage has a lot of promises, I said that it tends to seek a new separation of spirits, not only in Slovenia, but also outside, giving silence, determining who is more the real Slovenian and who is not. Of course, some asked what Slovenians outside Slovenia want. The natives want to be the living tissue of this nation because they are directly bound to it. They want us to implement the resolution, including that fund to promote economic development. They want us to give the right measure in the budget, not 1.4, as you suggested. Let me remind you, in 1980, when the SFRJ was still an integral part of this former country, which we know, what relationship you have with it, the assistance of the Slovenians was close to 2 per cent of the budget; at that time it was the highest. More than you'd suggest. And that's what they want. Emigrants and locals want to nurture Slovenian culture, educate themselves in Slovenian, exchange, especially for young people. And that's what we need to work on. All together, they want to be proud of Slovenia. But they can't be proud of Slovenia if we work on divisiveness - only on Slovenia, which is united. And think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u63	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Bernick first. Apparently he can't get out of his skin - this time he was robbing a Slovenian expatriate queen. He told her it was a wedding organization. I strongly reject this unwarranted qualification. The initiative was launched by the Slovenians on the first visit of the Slovenian delegation to the United States after World War II. The founding general assembly was held in 1951 and the first president of the queen was Slovenian writer Tone Seliškar. Among the first members of the matrix were cultural workers who had collaborated before World War II with eviction societies and officers, some returnees and researchers of the history of Slovenian eviction. So Dr. Bernik qualified SIM, the Slovenian expatriate queen, for the wedding organization. I hope the names of the first queen's committee will convince you that Dr. Bernick doesn't know what he's saying. The president was dr. Tone Seliškar, writer and poet, Vice-President Tomo Brejc, Chief Director of the LRS leather industry, distinguished politician and father of our fellow Member Miha Brejc, then Ludvik Medvešek, returned from the USA, and so on, for example, Bozidar Lavrič, Rector of the Medical Faculty, Lois Health, Return from Canada, Anton Korinčič, Return from Argentina, and so on. The other thing I'd like to say is this. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u65	Can you close, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u66	From my colleague Janša, the champion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and our fellow Member - I will conclude right away - but I did not expect any more from him than from the fact that he will also, in relation to the law on Slovenians living outside its borders, withdraw the deleted and Ultra every day. This clearly points to the political motivation of the extraordinary pre-election meeting of the National Assembly. Apparently, it's not the Slovenians in their place and in the world. It's just the votes in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u67	Thank you. Private Cheligoy has the floor. Mr. Bernick, you don't have any more time; look at the red numbers, you've spent it yourself. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, he wasn't muddy. Private Cheligoy has the floor. He's quitting. Franci Rokavec [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u68	I'm asking for a replica, please. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u69	Dr. Bernick, you follow the rules of procedure, just as I want to respect it. Franci Rokavec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u70	Thank you. This time it has been shown how lifeless this rule of law is. I really regret that Dr. Bernick didn't get the word. Colleagues, colleagues! Today, this National Assembly is back on the test. On the test, whether he's going to pass the adult exam or he's going to fail this exam. As we do in this law, which Slovenia should have gained in 13 years of independence long ago, we behave like children's kindergartens. It is a matter of naked prestige who will be carrying the motions of this law. And if the ruling majority is anything for the Slovenes around the world, then I expect that the first hearing will go so far as to hand in hand with the proponents of this law and to support that the bill is a suitable basis for further consideration. At this point, no number of cases could have been brought down in the various laws of this national assembly, when we first identified a substantial number of questionable solutions that have been proposed, and the law, nevertheless, continued its course. Slovenia urgently needs a law to regulate relations with Slovenians living outside its borders. If we look only at our neighbours, Croatia, Italy, etc., we know that they went here significantly further. And they also benefit from it. The benefits that come back ten times, and we, as if the Slovenians around the world are still second-rate citizens of this country. That's too bad for our country. It is a pity for greater visibility for the promotion of the Republic of Slovenia in the world. So, where's it stuck? We have a resolution on the relations of Slovenians around the world and beyond our borders, but we do not have a law, as has already been said, and this law, which would define primarily funding. Funding is a problem. Indeed, the law must have the basis for financing certain programmes. Now the question can also be asked, in what way, is the most optimal way to finance our organisations outside our country. Finally, it is also a Slovenian language. Even with this law. To participate in the elections of Slovenians around the world. What problems our fellow believers face so that they can carry out their basic civic duty! Of course, they can only do this at the embassy or the post office. Ask other communities of other countries how easy it is for them to fulfil their civil duty, of course. It's basically simpler. But we, as if we were afraid of our own citizens, were afraid of our own kinsmen and didn't want them. On the contrary, we had a lot of trials in this House, and especially in this year, when we wanted to be significantly more inclined to other nationalities, which is the duality of the national assembly and also the duality of our country. This is not a pre-election period, this is first of all, whether it is just before the elections or after the elections, whether we are prepared to give with a special law for Slovenians living outside our borders, even the necessary legal basis, both for financing and for their operation. The resolution is a general document, this has been said several times. This law, which the government relies on with eight comments on eight articles and, of course, the whole law contains more than 80 articles in its entirety; it is said that one-tenth of the comments are those on which the government and the majority in this House are supposed to have stumbled that this law is not appropriate. Of course, I will also leave some time for my colleagues, my colleague Kangler and my colleague Brenčič, and I will conclude with this. Voting whether the law will be a suitable basis for further procedure will, of course, show whether this State Assembly will pass this mature examination for our fellow citizens beyond our borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The tree of Kacin has a word. Dr. Bernick, procedurally? Yeah, I'll allow that. You've got procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u72	Just tell me, since when does the replica count according to the rules of procedure in time. Let me tell you this, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u73	In all the practice so far since the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure, we have counted the replicas at a time that is counted to the Group of Members. With all the practice so far. I gave you an answer with this, and please don't interfere with the session, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u74	I'm going to interrupt the session because I want to answer Mr. Bevk, who is [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u75	Comrade Sok, for the moment, I am in charge of the meeting and I give the floor, as is the schedule of the applicants for the debate. Dr. Bernick, I warn you, don't interfere with the work of the National Assembly. Dr. Bernick, for the second time, don't disturb the meeting of the National Assembly because you didn't get the floor. But you can stand. Comrade Jelko Kacin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to be brief because there's probably someone else who wants to say something. If we really care about the Slovenians around the world and the place, then I'm calling off the rush. But I advise sensitivity and let's take time. This law does not belong in a package of extraordinary sessions, first. And secondly, all that we want to do for them in the world and instead, we can do by elections without using it because of pre-election needs. I just don't think that the law is well thought out, that it is the result of the rape by the President of the Slovenian Commission around the world and the place. You've heard a lot about this, and no one will "take the devil" if we decide that for six months and we'll have a quiet conversation and make a deal. Maybe. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Jerovšek will not have to shout when I speak, he may be in power and will be able to dictate and give the word as he would like then, and then he could find a solution for the Slovenes around the world and instead, which will be even more appropriate to you, Comrade Jerovšek. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u77	Thank you, Comrade Kacin. Dr. Bayuk, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we ask for a 10-minute recess because we would also like to propose a procedural decision. Please rest 10 minutes on the basis of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u79	This procedural proposal of yours I am not winning, you can take it before the decision is taken, and if you make this proposal again, I will also give it to you. Thank you very much. Continue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your courtesy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u81	France Tsukati has a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. First, on the issue of the importance of the law. Look, gentlemen, it's been a while since we've been independent of Slovenia. And if before we became independent, we did not have the opportunity to form politics independently to all Slovenians, then it would be appropriate to think of the importance of national integration of all Slovenians after the first days of independence and after the establishment of our legislative branch of power, because history has unfortunately brought us down, it has taken us away after the First World War of Koroška, after the Second World War. World war is a great part of Primorska, from Trieste, Stara Gorica and so on - we lost part of Slovenia in every war. And only with independence has the opportunity and the opportunity to think seriously about this important shift in history, where all Slovenians would really be different. Such acts shall be taken care of by any State which gives something on its national conscience. Above all, small countries, which are always threatened by large countries, will be smaller and smaller. And, of course, we don't have this law for so many years after we're single. Now we are entering Europe, where the border is being cleared with Slovenians living in Koroška, who live on the Italian side and the Hungarian side. And we still don't have that law! We still do not have this law to open the door to greater participation by all Slovenians. Therefore, we believe that this is one of the most important laws, that it is necessary to adopt quickly and even if not otherwise, at an emergency meeting. It is too late to adopt this law in this mandate on a regular basis, too late. And if we don't have him in this term, the thing will be dragged or delayed for at least one year, for at least one year. Because the law was written or prepared because the government did not prepare it in time, it was drawn up by the Slovenian Commission, which prepared it in the same way as the regular procedure itself, but was used up as an opportunity to attend an extraordinary meeting. It grieves me very much that we are arguing about some things, about proposing, about how it would be more appropriate for someone else to propose, about different motives and motives. If you have any better proposals from the coalition government, please add them. Amendments, let's fix this. And, of course, then, we could adopt a law in due time, which would also enforce this part of the national interest. And once again, I propose that you do not reject this proposal, to amend it, because it is not foreign, it is our Slovenians, Slovenians, who would allow our extension of national interests, the expansion of economic interests and the greater prosperity of Slovenia, as well as of the nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u83	Thank you. Franz Kangler gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, honourable Members and Members. With great regret, I also have to share the Slovenians in two parts today in this national assembly, and in this very national assembly. When it comes to the Slovenian people, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, we must be united. And the Slovenian people live not only in the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian people live all over the world. Although it is very funny for some in the United States when we talk about the Slovenian nation, I am very sad that some think that this law is the subject of a pre-election period. With all my responsibility and seriousness, I must honestly say that the Slovenian nation must never and never be the subject of a pre-election period. And as my colleague Kacin suggested that the law should be rejected and re-elected after the national elections, I think it makes no sense. In particular, I appeal to the LDS Members and Head of the LDS Group to support this law in the first reading, regardless of the Government's opinion, to show the compromise and that the comments you have on this law, given that you have a majority - I reiterate, given that you have a majority - prepare proposals for amendments and also adopt such a law. Why you insist stubbornly on this, given that the President of the Commission, Mr Puksic, is a bill-maker. Give your political influence, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to influence the content of the law and adopt such a law. The ideology that some of you are pursuing today in this National Assembly concerning Slovenians around the world and in substitution is too little, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, realize that Slovenians live not only in Argentina, but also in Canada and in Australia. Most of all, you forget about the Slovenians who live in Belgrade, but there are not a hundred, two hundred or a thousand, there are more. What about those Slovenians and their status living in the former republics of Yugoslavia? Who took care of their status? No one, respectable colleagues and colleagues! And this law would also take care of those Slovenians and Slovenians who live both in Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia, as well as in Bosnia and Croatia. Nobody! Given that my time is running out and that my colleague Brenčič will speak to me, please tell me, colleague Bevk and colleague Ptrč, that they have fought for human rights in accordance with moral and ethics. Whether the Slovenians do not deserve your attention, Mr. Potrč, to fight for the deleted, even for the Slovenian people and Slovenian roots, I think that every Slovenian who feels Slovenian at heart, even though he lives either in Argentina, Belgrade, Sarajevo, Australia or Canada, or anywhere else, deserves the attention of everyone who sits in this Chamber. And let yourself be aware of that! And once again, I appeal to you, come, support the law in the first reading, and in the second reading, with your political influence and amendments - give an amendment to those articles that you think are controversial, and give, given that most of you have adopted such a law, if you do not have one option after one year, that it will be at least after one year your political option, but for this you must show a political compromise and be very happy to show it in the matter of Slovenia and Slovenian roots in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Let me just explain that I did the right thing when I didn't give you a replica, Dr. Bernick. For the Rules of Procedure, the Commission adopted the interpretation of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, a replica of the debater, as defined in Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, is considered to be part of the debate for each item of the agenda of the national assembly. During the duration of the debate of the parliamentary group, which, pursuant to the fourth indent of the sixth paragraph of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, has been established by the College of the President of the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, shall also include time for the replication of the Member of the individual parliamentary group. We continue the debate. Stanislav Brenčič gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Whether I have a word or not, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u87	No, it's not. This is only an interpretation of the President who has the right to interpret and to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Brenčič, you have the floor. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u88	Good. I want to say the following about this marriage. The spirit that prevailed in those days when the people of Slovenk and Slovenes prepared themselves for the independence and creators of the Slovenian Constitution, under which Article 5 of the Constitution was created, was something else than perhaps the spirit that has been present in the reign of the past 12 years, the rule of this government, or rather the rule of the Liberal Democracy. Since it is no longer necessary to take the time that Kacin said, for 12 years the government has had the time to prepare, in accordance with the Constitution, the law required and in accordance with the spirit of Article 5 of the Constitution, and has not done so. Why didn't she do it? Because it is simply not in a position to overcome some of the ideological obstacles that it should have. We were supposed to cross them, and that's why I'd stay married. That is why this law is conceptually and purposefully good. Regardless of who the proposer is, it makes sense to use it. I say, because I know well, some of the proposals in the law that the government is preparing in this mandate have come to the national assembly much worse. I can call them "the shit nest," and we got them to life. And if the government had a genuine purpose, for which you appear to be a government structure here, it would have served at the base of the home labour body by making appropriate changes to this proposal. The government is not a proponent. The government can come in full with a package of amendments that will already be inserted into the bill with a traced content, but that is not true and this government will not make a proposal, as we have here, you will see! Not because we are before the elections, because this structure of government is unable to overcome some small ideological burden that it should have. But we need this marriage. Article 5 of the Constitution came from this at a time when the spirit was genuine that we would somehow go together and unite the entire body of the people of Slovenk and of the Slovenes. We haven't been able to absorb anything in 12 years. If we did, we could have a marriage long ago under the roof and everyone would be pleased with it, and the state of Slovenia as a member of the EU in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u89	Thank you. I give my word to Jashi the Wicked One.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u91	My friend Lukič, I apologize, Mario Gasparini is in front of you. [[He's quitting.]] I give you my word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u92	Thank you. First, I'd tell my buddy Puksich that he's done a lot of work. He has worked hard, with all honour, but I think that the work would be better done if the government were on the line, the real foreign ministry, and Parliament were in closer relations. That is how we now have here a bill that was not in line with the foreign ministry or with the government. First of all, I'm very pleased if it really is the number of 500,000 Slovenes around the world. That means we're an incredibly fertile nation. I'm afraid this number isn't exactly the right number. Then there are different definitions of Slovenians, citizens, non-citizens and so on. Here comes the definition that I must say that I do not understand it very well: Slovenian nationals with the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. This law introduces a new special status, called the status of Slovenian without Slovenian citizenship, which will be acquired by all Slovenes who do not have, cannot or do not wish to have the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Matters relating to the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship are presented in more detail elsewhere. It is difficult for me to imagine a Slovenian who would be misled by a Slovenian who cannot or does not wish to be a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. This seems to me from the point of view of the one who does not want it is, in my opinion, an offensive attitude towards Slovenia as a mother of the country. Then we look ahead and find that colleague Pukšič is very agile and that even the negative opinions of the government, I would say, do not sober up because through the government he will definitely have to go. All this stuff went through the government. The French and Italians are particularly mentioned here, bearing in mind that the French are a colonial force, that they had in the past and still have strong currents outside their homelands. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u93	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u94	Then we meet up with a whole bunch of new institutions - a home for immigration, a repatriation fund and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u95	Can you close it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u96	Yeah, I can wrap it up, because this thing is too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The speaker, colleague Franz Pukšič, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Of course, since 10 minutes to present the law was significantly too small, I could not explain all its components, but perhaps only two sentences concerning repatriation. We have made a comparison or written in this law that the amount of aid will be comparable to the aid granted to refugees within one year, with the assistance of the repatriated Slovenians for a maximum of one year. The aid is granted to refugees for a period of three years and thus triples that amount. We have no objection to the fact that it is three years for refugees, but we were aware that it is only one year for repatriated persons who speak Slovenian. A hand in the heart, very fair, if for anyone, then this repatriation fund and repatriation would in fact be most taken into account for those young, educated people who are in the countries in which they live, political or economic crises. It is true that years ago there was a strong political-economic crisis in Argentina, but they survived most of it; but not many of them came; several ten families returned. It is true, however, that this political and economic crisis is still going on and will continue for a long time in the Balkans, in those former countries. If so, such a law would come at this point very well for these people. To talk about how to reach consensus and not just unilaterally - yes, colleagues and colleagues, if you understand the consensus between all political parties, but if for you the consensus is just a ruling coalition, then this is not consensus; and if for you the consensus is so long as I say others bow to it, and you hold the fig in your pocket, then it is not consensus. This law was experienced by the Ministry and Government of 10% of the amendments to 10% of the members. If you really want this to be a possible consensus, I've offered it, I've already said that, in my last interview with Minister Rupl. Minister Rupel suggested that they should adopt a finding that the law is an appropriate basis, but the applicants are committed to supporting the amendments. On behalf of the candidates, I promised that we would do so. Then came the following information that such a decision could not be made. Here I publicly say that I will personally support all the amendments that the government would propose, it is called a colleague and a colleague, a political consensus I am for this, and if you seriously thought three years ago when we were doing this marriage, then let us send him to a second reading. Of course, there was no great expertise in the cooperation of the Liberal Democracy, and there were several letters. Opinion on the proposal for a law on relations with the Republic of Slovenia 8.7. Last year, after we had discussed with the Prime Minister. In doing so, you can see the hooks along with them, which means that we have taken this into account in the making of marriage. Then there was one letter from the Vice-President of the Commission on 10 March 2004 and then on 16 March, proposing that such a law should also be dealt with by the Commission. We have also done so and taken a decision on the Commission to invite all those who participated in the preparation to send proposals or amendments, if they feel that something might be disputed in accordance with internal or European legislation. They are, and as far as they were, we've taken into account. On 16 March, there were no major proposals by the Liberal Democracy, as shown in this paper. And on 24 March 2004, he made some proposals. Peter Eglič, head of office at the Ministry of the Interior, and also this part, as far as it could be done, of course, was taken into account. Where do we differ from the government's views and the proposals of the law? We're breaking up in three points. In fact, whether the status of Slovenians is without Slovenian citizenship - that is, it is an alien status or not. I say now that I will only support the Government's proposal, which says it is not a status or that it is a status alien - this law states that it is not. We're breaking up with the visa regime. All right, we will end what we wrote that a visa-free entry is possible, although it could also be explained differently that this would apply, so, entry only in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia - but also this. And where we're all still going - just with the status criteria. We will also define these criteria a little bit more, or somehow we will help ourselves with the citizenship law. Colleagues and colleagues. Otherwise, of course, the Ministry's comments are as follows. We therefore propose that the text in the title of the law, which "lives", be deleted, "or resides". All right, we can let go. Then, in the entire text of the bill, the word "status" should be written with a small starting point. All right, no problem. In this case, the words "define" and "definition" are synonymous and suggest deleting the text "defines" or replaces both words with the word "definition". See, mainly through all the material we went through, there is no problem of these things being introduced, it is whether, of course, the existing law will reflect national pride, a reflection of the national consensus on Slovenians in place and around the world and the alias we will this time - or whether this time we will come through the daily and client policy. And why is the marriage in a special session? Because he was not proposed by the Colleges of the National Assembly at any of the regular meetings. That's why! Of course, I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that the law goes to a second reading and, of course, we accept it in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u99	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the bill. Yeah, you'll get your word, but first I'll have to finish. I conclude the general debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before you speak: the debate is closed, I would like to request, on behalf of the parliamentary group, a half-hour recess for consultation under Article 73, paragraph 2. You've finished before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u101	Dr. Bayuk. It is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I must conclude the debate first and then we shall proceed to the vote and before the vote you have the right to take a break for your consultation and then for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u102	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Article 73, second paragraph, states: before the decision is taken. But it doesn't tell you how long before the decision is made. That's before the decision, but before it's over. It doesn't say what you're interpreting. I know what this is about. You understand what this is all about. The second paragraph of Article 73 says, "before the decision," and I demand it before the decision is taken and before you are finished. But that doesn't say I have to do what you're interpreting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u103	Dr. Bayuk, I think I know how this is going, and I'm trying [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u104	I am merely exercising my right as a representative and now the leader of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u105	And I also confessed it to you and made it possible. You can't tell me that. But before you decide, you can make your own proposal. However, allow me to conclude the debate as President, then proceed to the decision-making process and you have this right before the decision. I conclude the general debate on the bill. We're moving on to decision-making. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u106	Now, let me repeat: under the second paragraph of Article 73, I request a half-hour recess for consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u107	Thank you. I allocate half an hour's rest at the request of the New Slovenia Group. We'll continue the session at 1:10 p.m. I suggest that we also use these 30 minutes for an anticipated vacation, which is at 1300 hours, so that we do not give a 30-minute break again at 1300 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u108	Colleagues and colleagues! Time of rest is up. We will move on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. May I have your attention, please? I will read the proposal for a decision before us, which we will decide: "The proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We will decide on this proposal for a decision. I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice? Dorian Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Time has been on the line for us too, so it was not possible to hold a debate on our part as well. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'll give you my word if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u110	Excuse me! Dr. Bajuk, since you requested a 30-minute recess, I give you my word that you will tell us how you agreed in these 30 minutes and how you will possibly vote. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. During the discussion, there was an incident, namely that a colleague of our parliamentary group, Dr Bernik, requested a replica, and on the basis of an interpretation of Article 70, which has already been given by the Rules of Procedure Commission, the chairman decided that he could not replicate. We're in the middle of this break, besides eating fast, which is not healthy anyway. This is some message to everyone - not only is it not healthy in 30 minutes to eat lunch, it is not European either. I think it would be right for a college that has already decided on so many things to decide once again that this is a bit pointless. Well, in the meantime, we talked about this. And, Mr President, we have a concrete procedural proposal for the Rules of Procedure Commission to explain how Article 70 actually works once the Group of Members is over. Because when we read this, this interpretation actually gives some clear direction to the one who is leading the meeting of the National Assembly, how it should account for time. But there is no interpretation of what the chairman should do when there is no time. Because it would be pointless, on the basis of the agreement of the college, how much time does one parliamentary group have - because you know that we often get one fraction of what we asked for, on behalf of the power that those who decide in this national assembly have. So it would be pointless for us to have in our procedure one system whereby everyone could personally attack someone because knowing - we all know how much time there is in the parliamentary group, if it's "in red" - then I can tell this gentleman or a colleague or a colleague, which I think is because they can't answer me. That would be so pointless, because that would be to abolish paragraph 70 in this case. Because it's not because it's the only way, when you're leading or whoever's leading this session knows how to account for it. But what happens to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, when time is no longer available, they did not interpret. I would ask - this is on behalf of the parliamentary group - that the Rules of Procedure Commission be said: or the 70th Rule of the Rules of Procedure is no longer, after the time has been fixed - in this way as provided - has expired; or then there is no replica; whether it will be valid and under what conditions. This is our proposal, Mr President. I hope that you will put him to the vote, so that the Commission will also decide on this matter. Let him complete that opinion. And if they actually think that the 70th article is gone, I'd like everyone to sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u112	Thank you for your thought, for your suggestion. I think that as a group of Members you can refer it to the Rules of Procedure Commission and that the Rules of Procedure Commission will certainly take note of this and consider this proposal. I have only dealt with the interpretation so far, and otherwise I should not have believed that proper guidance is in line with the current knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u113	Mr President, I'm sorry, I may not have made myself clear. It's not enough for us to write to the Rules of Procedure Commission. Our procedural proposal is that this National Assembly order the Rules of Procedure Commission to comment on this particular case. And I would like this proposal to be put to the vote as some decision of the entire national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u114	Although any possibility such a proposal has to be made to the Commission, I will make this proposal, your procedural one, for the Rules of Procedure Commission to examine this as well. I think it will also be easier for us to hold a meeting if we get this additional interpretation of this situation when the delegation is already in red numbers. I am voting on this proposal by Dr. Bajuk, who has submitted it on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. May I have your attention, and we'll make a decision. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 59.1 against the proposal. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the Commission will certainly take over this task. Thank you very much. We're moving on. So we are moving on to the decision-making and explanation of the vote, first of all, I will give my colleague Marshic a word, because we had to stop him earlier. I'm sorry, my friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u115	It's a good thing we cleared up this ambiguity. Respected colleagues and colleagues are trying to create the impression that this area of regulation of the rights of Slovenians around the world and of substitution is not entirely regulated by anything in our Republic, which is not really true. We have heard that there are many sectoral laws that regulate the status or rights of these people. It is true that there is still a lot to be done, and this has been promised that it can be done in the next term. This proposal is bad. This is also recognised by the opposition colleagues themselves, for they have already announced that they are ready to accept any amendments prepared by the government. Of course, colleagues from the SLS also join together and mention how this ruling structure, the set - and here they think mainly of us from LDS - has not regulated anything in all these 13 years, and they have happily forgotten that almost all governments have been present and have also had Secretary of State Michaela Logar, who in two years failed to bring together a suitable law that they would be pleased with. I will personally vote against this law, also because it uses the term "loyal Republic of Slovenia" in Article 36, a jargon that I think comes from the times of socialism and totalitarian systems, because it is offensive to Slovenians abroad and incarceration, because it does not talk about how loyalty will be determined and thus wants to determine the appropriateness and inappropriateness of individuals and thus, of course, give them, even the allocation of appropriate rights, probably including electoral rights. I believe that we have done the most for the Slovenians around the world, especially for our foreigners, by bringing our Slovenia together, this national assembly, irrespective of political colour, into the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My friend Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u117	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, my friend Marshich, so are we. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u118	There's no controversy here. All you have to do is explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u119	I'm on it. Well, let me say, because I was challenged, but I wasn't there for other obligations. Dear colleagues, Mr Jerovšek, I think Mr Janša. With my signature, I have confirmed the Slovenian National Party's assessment that the Slovenians Act is absolutely necessary. The Slovenian national party has examined the law in detail and concluded in its entirety, all together, that, in our view, this law is not appropriate in its form and content. Because in our opinion, some Slovenes are more Slovenian than others. And we have that right. We have not criticized or supported many of the government laws that were bad, and we have also supported many of the laws that the opposition has formed or co-formed with us. But in the Slovenian National Party, we mean with our heads. And that's how it is. And please do not evaluate the Slovenian National Party as non-Slovenian because it is national. As much as we are national if we were all, and Slovenia, this law would have been adopted long ago in the right content and form. In the Slovenian National Party, we will insist that the Slovenians Act comes. But the law in which the Slovenians will all be the same - Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Comrade Aloys Sok has a word, an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Given that this is the first consideration of this law, it is, of course, illogical to discuss and say: we will reject the law, we oppose it, because not all solutions are good in this law. If I have properly understood this debate, or if I understand the Government's opinion correctly, the government has little comment on this law. Right, this area could also be regulated. It is unreasonable that in the 14th year of the independent Slovenian state we still do not have a properly regulated attitude towards the Slovenians who live around the world and are almost half a million people. Last night, after we had no more time to discuss, I was able to hear from representatives of the ruling coalition - I think that Mr Member of Parliament was a Komljanek who said that the opposition was unconstructive, that the opposition had no merit in this mandate to lead this country except European affairs. That's kind of what he said. I'm asking you, how? In what way? If you reject the motions only because someone is signed on them by the opposition's parties. Of course, in this way you cannot at the same time see that the opposition is unconstructive. How constructive she is! Even with all the proposals for this extraordinary meeting that we discussed yesterday, and we did not have the time to discuss it. So, together, we need to imagine how we are running this country and how they are made in this country by law. This chapter needs to be resolved and, of course, we are not solving it, but we are simply stalling the matter. I'll vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u122	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u123	Thank you very much. With this very important law, which we have been waiting for for 13 years, the relationship of the United Nations and the LDS has crystallized in this House. Because the LDS and the United List today showed loyalty to the Udbov relationship with browns and emigrants. And the relationship of these customers is also crystallized through the address in today's Primorski novice, "Konzul Špacapan, TV, director of TV Primorka". The election year is an important election. It is important to control media space, pressure and control of journalists, which proved best in yesterday's debate on corruption and in the wake of a small coup when you destroyed the institution of parliamentary investigation. I have a different relationship myself. If I make it a little metaphorical, I will say that because I have no "falling links", even less "falling roots", I cannot support such a relationship. And that is why I will vote in favour of this law, which intersects with this relationship, which was established in the past and which is necessary for our relations with the foreigners and the emigrants. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Let's wake up! Let us take a different step, take a step forward and complete this law in the second reading, and today we vote that the law is a suitable basis. Get rid of this popcorn with the past! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u124	Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will vote for this law myself at first reading. I understand that there may be different views on concrete solutions, and this is perfectly normal, and above all on such a question as this. However, I would also like to say why I will vote like this. During my long and apparently unusual life course, I had to go to Israel more than once because of my official duties for seven years. And in my memory was the image of an event, when, on a special flight, the remnants of a tribe of Jewish descent returned to Israel, namely, the blacks, much more darker than the Israelites, dressed in their white robes, more like those of Israel’s opposers. But they accepted them as their own, into their own house. I hope that this period of thirteen years in which we have not been able to have any clear approach to the people of our generation will soon come to an end and that we will learn from others how it can work in such cases. There are far more Slovenians than just those who have this advantage to live in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u126	Thank you. John Sponik has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders is suitable for further processing in the National Assembly. I signed it myself as a member of the Slovenians in place and around the world. For at least two years, he was getting ready. Experts from both the Slovenian Office for the World and at least two government departments participated in its work: education and culture. The very introduction of the government's position also states, I would say, a very correct position that, the law was necessary and that the intention of the applicants was good. And another thing is that we have been successful in preparing the law. In our view, this is a law that should not be shared by the National Assembly and should not be put at the forefront of a prestigious question whether it is proposed by four colleagues who are not formally members of the government coalition, or even by the fact that this point is at an extraordinary meeting. We therefore propose to support the law and then to further process the procedure, to resolve those issues that are not fully addressed: the issue of financial implications, in particular repatriation, and the new situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and all the dimensions that the specific status of Slovenians without citizenship would bring about in relation to human rights standards. So, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u128	Thank you. Ferry Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the bill simply because it is bad and it does not save anything, it will not serve the purposes that are the basis for the drafting and making of this law. It means the illusion and false hopes of the Slovenians around the world that the situation or participation of the Republic of Slovenia with them after the adoption of this law will be better. This is an irresponsibility to the Slovenians all over the world. Above all, in addition to what has already been said, the great weakness of this law is that it has no regulated financial work and no financial basis, and there can also be no significant improvement in cooperation with Slovenians around the world. Next. The discussions you led here by colleagues mainly from the types of applicants and the parties who propose this law convinced me that the purpose was not as well-intentioned as I thought it was at the beginning. Your controversial tones of disqualifications forward that one who does not lead to this law is against the Slovenes or against the cooperation of the Slovenians around the world. This is, in fact, irresponsible and actually means this law, as a kind of other at this meeting, nudity; and this pre-election stew, which is, in fact, corrupt and not luxuriant in fact, and so let the government as soon as possible, as promised in its opinion, prepare the law and adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u130	Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I will support the bill because what the government promises is not possible. Look. Comments are only half. Half in the sense that he's just telling you what can't be done, but nothing that can be done. If we believe that this is true, then there will be no marriage if they remove all the things he says are wrong. Secondly, there are many things wrong with this and some are purely infantile. It's about loyalty, you know. Any good lawyer knows how to define this and some countries have problems as well. [[...]] If you had it in the old regime, God bless you, but I don't think it smells like this regime, but other things. Well, let me put it this way: As a former member of the executive board of the evict queen, I know who was there earlier and later. I was a member for three years, and then I resigned because I saw that there were always more who were coming back, and they withdrew a little, that the democratic government had not stopped them in any way, and unfortunately it did not. I will therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which we can only correct, along with government experts. However, if the government does not have such experts, it should hire them and we will have a very good marriage. I say what my forerunner has said, but it is so electoral propaganda that I hope that any of you will be caught, and those who are Slovenians around the world will not accept it, because they know how to do it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Our country of them. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u132	Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I also believe that the proposal for a law to regulate relations between Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders is a good basis that could be improved through the procedure at our disposal. It is clear that there are different views on this subject, but on the other hand, the fact that we have been waiting for such a law for more than 12 years and that it needs both Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u134	Thank you. Joze Azhishch gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Today, of course, we listen to different opinions. The opinion we represent in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that it cannot be complemented by amendments in such a way that the key problems that are in this law can be addressed. Of course, it is also quite the opposite of the opinion advocated by the President of the Commission and was published yesterday via the STA that he has only a few vocabulary corrections, but everything else is good and is praised by all ministries. I believe that in fact this law has gone into procedure primarily for political reasons, probably of a promotional nature. Otherwise, it would probably be possible for the applicants to make an effort for all members of the Commission to contribute their signature to the proposal. That's what we've been alerting you to. We've pointed out problems and reasons why we can't sign. But at least personally, I've had a call here on the side if you don't decide to sign it by Friday or Thursday, the law will go into procedure. This shows the purpose of this law to make a political show, a political rhompom, what happens to marriage, and then it doesn't matter anymore. I think it is right that we adopt the law, even if it is a little later, because the current regulation also offers a very good opportunity for the Slovenian community beyond the Slovenian borders, as has been done in recent years. Thank you. I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u136	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will personally support this proposal, because I believe that sufficient time has been available and that what is expected to happen in this area could have been done long ago. All these excuses you have today are extremely barren, torn, groundless, even in some parts one would say impatient with the Slovenes around the world. And about that stew you're talking about, I'd say you've been doing it in two rows for 50 years. One of the very good ingredients you eat yourself, and some not even a mocked onion. That's the difference. In short, I think all these objections are unfounded and it is shameful that the National Assembly does not support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u138	Thank you. That's my conclusion. I didn't see it. [[...]] Raise your hands, please. France Tsukati, Kavtičnik, I'll write down the rest of the fellow Tsukati you have your word on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Let me explain my voice. Indeed, I am not burdened by the prejudice that the proposals signed by the opposition Members are bad. However, I must say that it was not the opposition to this law that proposed, but the commission or members of the commission for Slovenians around the world. Another time. I think it's unjustifiable fear or prejudice in front of Slovenians around the world. 500,000 world citizens, Slovenians who live around the world and feel connected to Slovenia with some positive, creative relationship does not mean a burden for our country, but a great gain or a great opportunity that we must take advantage of. At the time of independence, we were not ashamed to call the Slovenes around the world and encourage them and ask them to influence us as ambassadors to help us to be recognized as soon as possible in the global public. And we were really quickly recognized, even with their help. That's when we knew about them. Thirteen years after independence, we don't have a law to regulate this relationship. Gentlemen, these Slovenians are a fortune for the Slovenian nation, something has to be done in this area. Let us also make use of this for the embassy, for the economy and for the protection of Slovenia, which will in some way be even more threatened by accession to the European Union. I certainly support it. I will vote in favour of the law. When he comes back to the committee, he may also be able to accept some of your comments and to supplement the law with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u140	Thank you. There will be no objections, I have written names: Kavtičnik, Tisovic, Potsch, Lenko. My friend Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. Since it has been mentioned that we are representatives of the commission for Slovenians in place and worldwide signed under this bill - this is not true. There's only a few of them, and two of them have signed off. However, the law is inconsistent with the Slovenian legal regime, so I do not think that this moment is the right time for us to make this decision at an extraordinary meeting. I am sure that this will not endanger the position of Slovenians outside Slovenia, but even less the preservation of Slovenian culture, tradition and Slovenian language, which we must go to in fact. Nor is there any reason for us to rush into adopting such an important law that deserves time and precise definition as well as correction as the applicant himself has already found. In view of the events of recent weeks, I cannot shake the feeling that some want to use Slovenians who live in place and around the world to achieve political goals. I'm not doing this alone, so I'm not going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u142	Ana Maria Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened to the debate, more or less everyone in the National Assembly agrees that there is a need for marriage. We have very good legislation for Hungary, for the Italians, which is fine, I am very glad that their representatives are sitting among us. However, in these fourteen years we have not regulated legislation for Slovenians around the world. I think it's high time this was settled. As far as this is concerned, I think it's because you didn't put it on a regular session earlier. As far as marriage is concerned, it's not ready. In this national assembly, we witnessed so many laws that came from the government, with professional support, so incomplete that there were then more amendments than there were articles themselves. So it didn't convince me not to support this marriage either. That's why I'm going to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u144	Thank you. A quiet run has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I believe that the adoption of a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders is necessary. Until recently, I have tried to believe that the purpose of drafting this law in a commission regulating the situation of Slovenians in place and around the world is well-intentioned that it is a genuine desire to reach a consensual substantive proposal that the National Assembly, as it would be appropriate for such a question, would adopt. Today I find that's not true. For the first time, colleagues and colleagues from the work of this Commission, you have yourselves tabled a law and were not prepared to wait for further coordination with your colleagues. If we really wanted to reach an agreement, we'd be ready. Secondly, you have given the government two or three days, according to my information, to form your serious proposals. The issue of regulation of such a law requires much more. Today we have seen what came from the government six and a half pages of opinion, many of which have raised constitutional issues, compliance with the Constitution, European legislation, the new situation of Slovenia in the European Union and so on. And finally, today you wanted to show that you would also want to separate the Slovenians at this point and ideologize things, not look for common points. I am dissuading any debate that, on your part, is common, that someone does not want something and is against it. If we were in favour, we would look for cooperation and consensus by including in a regular session, which would be possible, and we could discuss it within a week, and your wish was different, so the law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I will not support this content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u146	Thank you. Franz Lenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this marriage. Today's debate has convinced me of the purpose of this law, why it was included in today's agenda and in an extraordinary session. I am taking part in the position of fellow Member Kacin, who earlier said that we should not use foreign nationals around the world to raise political points and leave this to the new mandate of the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u148	Thank you. Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u149	I don't know, you all claim that marriage is needed by the ruling coalition, but you won't because it's in a special session. What does this have to do with you having a majority, you can accept, you can replace completely all articles with amendments. That means you're being dishonest. Here, that's all! You're being dishonest. Don't hold that. You have a majority, and if you're all like one in the same horn, you're not saying it's an extraordinary session, but what does that have to do with it, because you can change everything. Even allow yourself to work through the rules of procedure. But why won't you accept it? Because perhaps in addition to one law which was adopted in this four-year term on the opposition's proposal, because it was so presented, another might have been adopted on the opposition's proposal. That hurts because there's an agreement between you that you won't support any marriage. That's the reason you won't support any law from the opposition, no matter what it is. And I resent that. It's unfair, it's undemocratic, and it's also wrong, and voters know it. In short, we have a possibility of amendment. In this you can change the law and make it to serve and to benefit this entire Slovenian society. What does this have to do with election goggles? Make this a positive election gobble for yourself, because you can make it. Is that a negative election goulash or a positive? If you are really working hard, you will make good content out of this law and promote yourself. But you clearly don't care about that. It's a lack of honesty. That's why I'm supporting the marriage. Maybe there's something else you can do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And please, mate, back up. [[...]] I appeal to you to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u150	Tone Partich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u151	Although I didn't mean to come by, let me first say that Slovenians around the world are a very complicated concept. Before you saw me, I was sitting at lunch with a girl who is a Slovenian doctor from Siberia, from Omsk. And now there's a school here to learn Slovenian and find ancestors. I was in Australia 15 years ago, but I am probably ten times a year among Slovenians in Croatia, Russia and Europe with those who are so different. The ones I hang out with, or I know them because they invite me to these schools or to cultural events if I let Australia go because I wouldn't dare to generalize and they're something else. They never said they needed any marriage. They need our up-to-date administration to answer when they ask for something, they need capable administration by municipalities, some of them may need something else. Some people have money, too. Although we're probably talking about these. If they would listen to us today, Janez Janša, if they would listen to us today, I would be very interested in what they would say in these discussions, where we have dug again, forgive the expression, one of the "kids" of the old ideological axes that make sense to them, most of them are full. I don't know what they say about me when I leave them. I could also tell you what they say about our visits to the commission or someone who visits them. And I'm going to Berlin where the mass is, and I'm going where the Slovenian societies don't go to mass. I'd be most interested if I had their point of view. What would you say, for the first time, about what is said here today, and for the second time, how much this law really suits them? According to my humble judgment, the marriage has more than one shirt. But I won't vote against it and I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u152	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. It is sad to hear some views today in this Chamber as to whether it makes sense to go into the process of adoption, the process of adopting a new law or the law on Slovenians outside our borders, or whether that time is not yet. After 13 years. All those who claim that the actual opposition abuses this law for pre-election purposes are also not honest. You have every opportunity to reshape this law during the procedure as you wish. The President of the Commission said earlier in the debate that he would accept all the amendments of the government. So, no, all amendments to the government, if the procedure continues. So, even then, on your part, it is not an honest approach, when you say the law is not appropriate, it is necessary to create a suitable law. So it's not the right time after your assessment that Slovenians outside our borders finally get this necessary law. I believe that this is the precedent and prestige that the National Assembly should overcome, this distribution of Slovenians and Slovenians. And one more thing. You say the law is premeditated. Then, according to your assessment, every law that comes after an extraordinary, so-called European session is to be from the opposition, and I will also say by the government, from now on it is pre-eminently dyed. Are we just going to break up the work of this national assembly and this country because it's supposed to be the fall elections? I find this to be unrealistic and irresponsible. In fact, it is a recent time for us to shrink species together and vote in favour of the further procedure of this law. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u154	One last explanation for the voice, just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u155	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It has been said that for 13 years we have no law to regulate this area. That is true, but it is also true that this area is governed by the Constitution, 28 sectoral laws and two resolutions. The well-intention to Puksic's proposal is also evidenced by the fact that my colleague Auschwitz and I have proposed a meeting of the Commission at which this law should be dealt with. This meeting of the fucks also refers to our initiative. Here we have made our comments. The meeting was then suspended and concluded at the Correspondence meeting with the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders interferes with different areas, which are also governed by other substantive laws and some substantive changes. The members of the working group should prepare an overview of such provisions in their area of the proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians, live outside its borders and cite the provisions of the sectoral laws with which they conflict. From such checks prepared, the expert service of the Commission will complement the proposal of the law and draw up the final provisions." I have supported this conclusion of the correspondence session. Unfortunately, we did not see this law again until it was published in the Rapporteur, nor did the President of the Commission call the Commission again to make these comments. If I do. I don't think this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. However, I agree that the government is preparing the law as soon as possible, as it has promised in its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u156	My friend Franz Pukšič, and then it would be good if we went to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u157	On behalf of the Group of Members. We'll support the marriage. Of course, it is very difficult to sit and listen to the untruths. It's not like there wouldn't be enough time. Since December 2000, the time for drafting the law has been running. I had previously shown how much science came from a liberal trust in this preparation of the law. I showed you the papers and, of course, everyone is still available. However, I find it unfair and unfair when, on behalf of the proposer and as the first-signed, I suggest to the government that 10%, those with comments, we are prepared to support their amendments and then discredit and reject it, for one simple reason, which is called who will be the proposer. So they're proposing. If this is the reason, colleagues and colleagues, that you are proposing, I can also withdraw from the proposal, only that we will do something for the Slovenians and Slovenians. What Slovenians and Slovenians want to hear and have in countries outside the countries where they live, we know. We also know from the debates in this National Assembly, when each year we organise a meeting of Slovenes and Slovenians in the National Assembly on 8 July. True, some had political reasons not to do so for 12 years. That there were many political reasons for replacing the four secretaries at the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world in this term of three and a half years, the lag of the Freighter, Mr Spacapan, Mr Simoniti and today Mrs Jadranka Šturm. Even when she was a Member, the resolution was recorded when she led the government to carry out relations with Slovenians in place and around the world through the Ministry through a minister without a licence. You've never done that. You lied to their faces, you never did it. So it is not true that there was not enough time, but it is simply true that there was no political will. Tell them if this law is rejected today, it is a message, probably from your side, as long as we are in power, this law for the Slovenians and there will be no place in the world. Just remember how bad we were, how angry we were with Italian parliamentarians when they passed a law on the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy for 40 years. 40 years. If we had the liberals in power of 50, that would be a pity of 50. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. I hope the offer of hands should, however, mean what you were talking about, consensus. But if it isn't, then of course in this country, I don't understand any more. Of course, I don't understand the elements of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u158	Thank you. Jelko Kacin wants to explain her voice. Please. My friend Pukšič, the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Half an hour ago, I was still in doubt, and I was unlocked, like Borut Pahor, but I didn't know whether or not I should have done it or not. But after all these debates that have now followed, I am firmly convinced that there is nothing left for me but to vote against strongly and to say it publicly. It's not 10%, it's 100%. And until this law is 100% harmonised and appropriate, it is not suitable for adoption and for further consideration. I have been around the world many times, and when we talk about Slovenians around the world and instead, especially when we talk about them around the world, I have often had to speak to them in English, because the fourth and fifth generations do not speak Slovenian. What they want is something completely different from what the President of the Commission just used here as an argument. That is why we really need to take the time and to draw the Slovenians in place and around the world to come up with a proposal that, when they invest in the procedure, they will stand, not only for the government, but for all the Members of Parliament, both Members of the Nationality. Only such a law will be credible and will help the Slovenes and the Slovenians. That I need it now, of course, because you sitting here on this side of me said it was an election this year. That's right. Thirteenth and two should be at once. That's why this session has been forced, an extraordinary session. And it has to be in session now, too. And it's not an extraordinary topic, it's a very serious, deadly serious topic, Pukšič, for a 100% theme, I will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u160	Colleagues and colleagues. I conclude this explanation of vote. May I have your attention, we're moving to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. Allow me to read it again so that we know what we are voting on. Comrade Visjak and the others, please. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "The proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Such a proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with extra-middle unemployment. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed John Janša. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members, with a first-signed magi. Andrey the Vissians, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for a further explanation of the bill, for which he has ten minutes. Comrade Janez Janša, you have the floor. However, colleagues, I ask for your attention and peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u161	Mr Vice-President, it would be difficult to thank you for your word because it is again limited. Even in solving the problem of unemployment, which is particularly hot in some parts of Slovenia, the ruling coalition is not ready to give more than ten minutes to the applicants, so that this law has been pending for four years. For the first time, we introduced a law with similar content in 1999. The ruling coalition then rejected him by reasoning that the government would draw up a system law as soon as possible, allowing the issue of unemployment to be resolved more quickly. We have not experienced this system law in five years. We have experienced several partial attempts to solve this problem that have failed. Today we have received ten minutes' time to explain the content of the law, after four years of waiting. At that time, the ruling coalition convened three extraordinary meetings for deleted persons, where it gave itself hours and hours to discuss the alleged rights of this category when it comes to the issue of unemployment, but time is a shame. At the same time with the law, we want to improve the situation in two areas. First, when it comes to increasing employment in general, and secondly, when it comes to solving this problem in those municipalities and regions where the problem is particularly exposed. I wanted to present some statistics first by municipalities, and these municipalities are over 190 in Slovenia. I can't even get this data in 10 minutes, so I'm afraid I'm gonna have to skip it. Once again, I am protesting the restriction on the words of the applicants, which happened for the first time and on such an important topic. At this meeting, on the 4th in a row. This is the first time in the history of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. The fact is that even at this time, while we were waiting for the so-called system law of the government coalition to solve this problem, the unemployment situation was deteriorating, especially given the location of this problem. Half of the regions in Slovenia are far above average when it comes to burdening this problem, and there are some regions, especially Ljubljana, which do not have this problem. It is said that the country has a registered unemployment rate at national level for 11.2% last year does not mean that all of us in this country have the same weight as 11.2 percent. This means that, say, Goriška or the central Slovenian region has registered unemployment there about 6% and 7%, on the other hand, we have Pomurje, Podravje and Zasavje, which are there at 16% and almost 18%. At that time, what we are waiting for the authorities to be willing to deal with our marriage or to prepare their own, which has not happened, this disharmony in the distribution of this problem has not changed a bit. The percentages remain almost the same. It's almost the same. Even in those regions where large funds were allegedly invested through so-called sectoral laws. The TET2 law for Zasavje was passed. Billions and billions were meant for that. But in the suspense region, unemployment has not fallen significantly at this time. Where did that money go? Where did the billions go? In the last week, we were able to read how, at the expense of the miners, those who have already lost their jobs, at the expense of those who are just before that, some are getting rich. How the tadenar flows to private companies. How fairies grow in Zasavje. How to buy new businesses. But unemployment is no less. This is the type of rescue imposed by the Liberal Democracy with a so-called systemic approach that has not produced any results. And our marriage was rejected five years ago. When we re-invested him, he's been waiting a long time for him to come into the procedure. And we had to put him in an extraordinary session to speed things up at all. The measures proposed in the law on simultaneous attacks on both problems are generally unemployment and particularly unemployment in some regions, the usual measures that have been taken in a number of countries, in order to have a major impact on the fact that this burden has not been borne by those already deprived in those regions or areas that have already been deproviligated. Many European countries, which have reduced or addressed this problem or at least balanced it at national level, have adopted various facilitations to increase economic growth in those parts, in those regions and municipalities where this problem is particularly pressing. It was usually a combination of measures at both national and local level and such a combination that we propose. We have proposed a special fund that would operate over a period of four years. It is clear that when we tabled the law, we proposed a period from then on, from 1.1.2001 to 2004. Article 2 will be amended in the second reading, because this period has passed since we waited for the mercy of the authorities to deal with the law. We are now proposing a period from 1.1.2005 to 31.12.2008. These resources at the country level, the development potential, would finance the payment of taxes and contributions from employees' salaries in new companies in the municipalities to which these development funds would be allocated, otherwise at the level of the allocations at the state and municipal competition. Taxes and charges on salaries to be paid from these funds would also be co-financed for a certain period of time. For these development funds, this law could be applied to municipalities with an unemployment rate higher than the national average on 31.12. The municipality would be obliged to help companies qualified for such funds to provide a communally regulated location to carry out their activities and 50% facilitate the payment of compensation for the use of building land. Similar criteria would be laid down in sub-laws. Companies that would set up and register a new activity in municipalities with an average unemployment rate, such as a company that would employ at least 15 workers there, would be exempt from the five-year profit tax if it increased or at least maintained the initial number of employees. There is no other way in the market economy to encourage investment in a developmentally endangered municipality, a municipality where there are many unemployed people than to attract an investor there. If someone were available to invest in Ljubljana, where all the infrastructure is or is somewhere in Slovenian Gorica, in Brkini or in Gorički, where it is not available, and if he invests in Ljubljana or in Gorički, he would have to pay the same taxes, he would rather go to Ljubljana [[End warning sign]] Where, obviously, he'll have everything done. It will never go where the cost of production would be higher. Therefore, it is precisely by these combinations of tax incentives and approaches that investment should also be allowed to enter demographically threatened areas and areas where unemployment is high. No other measure shall simultaneously address these two problems related to the question of unemployment. And so far, the government, despite proposing some laws when it comes to demographic development, has proposed some sectoral laws [[I mentioned one earlier.]] She didn't completely attack that problem. She has rejected our proposal earlier and is rejecting it now. And from these sectoral laws, as I said before - just two more sentences - a lot of resources have gone out for unsurpassed purposes, and villas have grown steadily, wealth on the one hand, poverty on the other. In the last three years, the number of recipients of social assistance, especially in recent times, has increased from 40,000 to 60,000, mainly on account of unemployment or as a result of unemployment and poverty in some parts of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u162	Mr. Janša, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u163	For this problem to be resolved, it is imperative to adopt a law, and such a law is before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u164	Thank you very much. This was a complementary explanation of the bill, as the explanation is published in the Rapporteur. I welcome the representative of the Magnificent Government. Igor Strmščnik with a co-worker, by failing to report the discussion in the opening part. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Kebrič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners [[DeSUS]] . Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I will give my position to the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average of unemployment. Unemployment is a serious problem facing every society. The market system is fundamentally competitive. As a result, this causes rivalry, not only at the level of individuals, but also at regions and countries. Each centre, as well as every region, seeks to be more successful than others, thus attracting more capital and allowing them to create new jobs and more employment. As a result, this situation leads to regional inequality, which is reflected in the higher unemployment rate in some regions and even in the peripheral areas of the regions themselves. The task of the State is to try to reduce and stimulate these differences through its intervention with the means at its disposal. In particular, proper involvement in education is needed, not only for young people, and assistance in retraining those who are unfortunately not allowed to work in their education profession. The aim is therefore to strengthen social capital, as an element of competitiveness, both in the regions and in the countries as a whole. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, DeSUS, we are very interested in solving the problem of unemployment, because it is also essential to us that as many people as possible are employed and that we can share fate with them. We are aware that only in this way will we be successful as a nation and be able to provide a man worthy of a decent life for all our inhabitants. Nevertheless, we do not think it is good that things are regulated in a partial way, but we are advocating a systematic approach. This was provided by the government and its projects, which have been implemented in recent years. We can see this from the data, for example, that in 2002, according to the information system of the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for regional development, 57% of all regional incentives focused on less developed regions and only 38% on more developed regions. In the area of ensuring systemic conditions for the promotion of unemployment, the Government has adopted a range of national and other programmes related to employment and the labour market and has given particular attention to less developed regions. In addition, the government has participated in various cross-border projects, which are also co-financed by European Union funds. It is also worth mentioning that 70% of all available resources have been allocated to regions with an average unemployment rate since last year in the framework of an active employment policy. Relative success in this area is to be attributed to all projects carried out. The essence of unemployment is social differentiation, as unemployment affects them twice: for the first time materially, and for the second time psychologically, because it works willingly and able to cash out its knowledge and ability in the labour market. Unfortunately, however, the progress of modern technology reduces the labour market from a position of view, as technological progress in many ways replaces many or more employees with poorer technology. All this is a general problem, and it is faced by all countries, including the most developed countries. However, it can be said that unemployment in our country is, in spite of everything, declining to a certain extent. In the parliamentary group, we believe that we have a legislative authority here that will direct the executive authorities to further focus on this problem, that the problem of solving unemployment in less developed regions is allocated more resources. Regional differentiation in development is also largely due to unemployment, which is present where fewer job opportunities are available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u166	Thank you. Mrs Staši Baloh Plahutnik, I apologize for the misrepresentation of her presence - I have not recognized you from behind - but she is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I'm asking you to understand my awkwardness. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič has the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u167	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! I will begin with what is actually happening with unemployment in Slovenia, what we have, registered unemployment, real unemployment, and much more. For a long time, we have seen in the tables how registered unemployment in Slovenia is declining. Of course that's not true. This is a professional error because the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of its own decision or the Minister's decision, has also begun to register unemployed persons on a special record which is not taken into account among registered unemployed. All those on special records are, of course, unemployed. They're out of work and they're willing to work. This is the basic definition of being classified, and, of course, you are also capable of work. All these persons are also able to work, otherwise they would be pension recipients at the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute. It's a record trick. Taking into account the correct data, we could find real registered unemployment in Slovenia, which is more than 110,000 unemployed. I immediately ask representatives of the government: how many are registered after this special record? Let them come with data and start to be classified in these publications, which they represent to the public. See what happens if you compare in 1993 and in 2003 and 2002. You can find an increase in unemployment. The waiting time, the increase in the number of those who have lost their jobs, and the reduced outflow to employment are increasing. The only category to be increased is removal from the register for other reasons. Then we really need to ask ourselves what these other reasons are. And it is that they are placed in a special record, in addition to, of course, other reasons for taking the booklet themselves or not agreeing or being found unfit for gainful work. The first question the Minister will have to answer, or the government representative: how many have been deleted on the special record? Second question: How many of these deleted persons are disabled? The disabled are employed annually by about 1,000 or more on the list of unemployed, and they are registered significantly more, perhaps 1,500 a year or more. Therefore, it is not possible to identify or obtain numbers in three years when the unemployment claim is always higher than the unemployment outflow, i.e. in employment or elsewhere, from 16,17 000 unemployed registered persons dropped to 8 000 840, showing the records of the February interim report. This is the edition of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. With these things we need to come clear to the day, only then will we be able to talk about the activities of the ministry and the effects. Then, of course, there is a discrimination between registered unemployment and surveyed unemployment. This is a fact all over the world, but what's interesting about us is that this discreet woman is extremely large. The Ministry of Labour has not been able to provide the right answers, but it can be assumed that this is a larger amount of black work, one part of which is also in some sense black work through student cards carried out by some others. It is also wrong to include persons in special records because it makes it impossible to include them in active employment policies. Secondly, there is also a breach of the provision, these persons are obliged to report to the employment adviser and are also obliged to show their right to work every time. Clearly, this is a secret arrangement between the administrative authority or the institution and the unemployed. If it is a silent contract, it is not included, it is not employed, because it makes no sense to employ it, according to the interpretation of the official authority. Of course, that's far from right. When we look at international records and statistics and analyses of the proportion of older than 50 years involved in the labour market, then we find the sad truth about Slovenia that we are on the tail. How will we get involved in normal flows of competitiveness, decommissioning the economy, if we do not take care of this poor demographic picture to enable those over 50 years of employment to be included in employment, either in part-time employment, support employment or otherwise in any way designed employment on perhaps an incompetent labour market? Large proportions of unemployment occur in rural areas, in particular the Podrav region and the Premur region. Lack of adequate measures and programmes to reduce this unemployment and hardship. Long-term unemployment is extremely high in our country and is above average and higher than in other Europeans, those to which we can compare now after joining the European Union. The reason for the fact that unemployment is still relatively high and is somehow sustainable and comparable with other countries is mainly because it was mainly employed in public services. Look, over the last three years, since this ruling coalition has been in power, the number of self-employed has dropped by 22 000. See the tables or these editions issued by the Employment Service and you will find out this information. This is an extremely severe blow to the most vital branch where businesses are actually created, creating new opportunities for employees. Lack of greenfield investment, lack of any foreign investment. Of course, not if there are so many clienteleisms and monopolistic connections that they cannot enter a competitive fight equally. Citizens are still interested in having an offer either on these wireless telephone services, on the market, anywhere. Of course, to strengthen production or services, and in particular products. Bureaucrat procedures. Despite the adoption of the Anti-Birocratic Programme, the picture has not improved with regard to employment, entry into programmes, employment, registration. She hasn't improved. Involvement of policy in these links. That's what we had a chance to see and hear yesterday. Maybe it's nothing unusual for citizens. Ultra should be mentioned. The Director of the market firm, i.e. a market company working for the government or for the Prime Minister, is an LDS official, decides with public companies without a call for tender and acquires public funds from state institutions or a budget based on calls for proposals. All one and the same person or the whole circle. Are they going to say this isn't a conflict of interest? It's going. I hope that the citizens will understand that too. At least two or three connections are problematic. It doesn't rule out all of them, but if one of them does, then the other one shuts down. The impact on higher employment or the reduction of unemployment could also be achieved through a more appropriate work-intensive industry programme. The programme for adapting textile, footwear, leather and clothing industries has been adopted. It expired in 2003. The effects are minor or not, since the trend in job losses in these sectors is still the same as before and continues this year, in addition to, of course, moving production plants to other countries. You will say, yes, this is a trend in the EU. Look in Italy, look in Spain, there's no such thing as this trend. Even the opposite. It even happens that our entrepreneurs with manufacturing industry -boobly, there you have in Novi Gorica where you moved your capacity 10 or 12 meters across the border. Why did he move? Because of customerism, because of monopolies, because they kept sending him inspections to destroy his production. He moved to Old Gorica, look, making baby shoes. These are all factors that affect unemployment or employment. Slovenian companies are moving elsewhere. They say that investments should be made, those who have now become rich on the basis of this property will invest in foreign countries, that is fine. That's bullshit! This is not a public interest. It's their private interest. If there is any public interest, there are investments elsewhere in Slovenia, yes. What will we have from the investments of these "tikunks" who have raised money and invested in other exotic countries, while also drawing on this credit potential in our unsecured banks? What are we gonna get out of this? A financial hole. The new Ljubljana Bank has not yet been rehabilitated, and we will get new things again because they buy duke's banks and I don't know what else. We could buy in this interesting circle, in the national space of the Slovenes, but not around the world. I don't know what public interest this is. The division of fate, as said by colleague Kebrich of the DeSUS Group of Members. Yes, I agree. It would be nice if those who have something really shared fate. But when I look at Forum 21, whose representatives talk about social responsibility, how they will behave, it is cynicism of the greatest kind. Unfortunately, Forum 21 cannot talk about sharing fate; they talk about sharing money and sharing power, not about sharing fate, they really care. What kind of people are they? Look at them! Those who did dirty business in the transition process. Those who cleaned up redundant workers in some companies or with the help of restructuring through the Slovenian development company dropped into a narrow circle of ownership of the person, while others lost their jobs. And these people are now paying wages there up to 12 million a month, saying that labour costs will be buried when they talk about an increase of 2 or 5 thousand. It's the greatest kind of cynicism again. And, of course, Slovenia's development society also played a part in this. The government is now setting up a company, an interface, a DSU, instead of a Slovenian development company, to complete this business. Why, though, does the Slovenian Development Society not do this business? Yes, you will say, Europe has warned us. Yes, if you were warned by Europe, you could change those articles that are problematic, but not erase the legal legacy or continuity of responsibility; this would erase the traces. How, then, can responsibility be identified in the case of Elan’s remuneration for managers? Now they're going to be "basing" those 2 or 3 billion and going to exotic places, and the rest of them are going to be liabilities. The country gave up 8 billion in Elan. Of course, the ministry says it is not her money because it was sent through the Commissioner of the Slovenian Development Society, and now you are liquidating the Slovenian Development Society. How should citizens believe in the reality, well-intention and responsibility of this government? So there's no one else. The management is going to Portugal, the Minister of Economy, I don't know, to go to the Netherlands to a new job. However, the Slovenian development company is being eliminated. So, my dears, what country is this? Who's gonna take care of the public interest? And then we have a report on the surveillance of privatisation, where 80 billion property damage is detected, where the agency, which is now being shut down, submits exact proposals on what has happened to "the prosecution", the prosecution does not issue any indictments. The Committee on the Economic and Social Affairs also adopts - interestingly, it has decided that the Government must take a decision on the responsibility of the Attorney General, who has now become the Minister of Justice. Not yet. It's been months, and of course the government, I don't know, is waiting, Minister, the Prime Minister is waiting for what will happen. But the charges are not filed. Then we wonder where the property came from, in transition, amounting to 440 billion, which is also said by international expert Stiglitz that it should be taxed in terms of the transitional tax. Four hundred and forty billion dollars was owned by this wider group. The government does not implement the necessary unemployment reduction programmes. Training for the real needs of employers. This discreet person between the offer you are making and what is demand is not sufficiently consistent. That is why there is also one piece of structural unemployment in this unemployment, registered. Of course, one piece of it is also this fricchial, given that all services do not respond as quickly as necessary. Yes, of course, there is one part, but the majority is too little demand. This is, of course, due to reduced investments either to our investors or to foreign investors in Slovenia's economic space. We could also increase the programme in these non-profit companies, these intermediate companies, the employment programme for hard-to-adaptable groups. Even for the Roma among these. And I think it would be much better if they worked for them - along with them, together with them, not for them - along with them programmes that would increase their employment. Because Roma unemployment is over 90 percent. This is the right approach, not the extra electoral lists or elections in the holy municipalities - that they have a double electoral right. This is much more important for them to participate in the regular labour market. That they deserve and ensure their social security. Learning workshops, teaching companies as a way of education and other forms. Here these pre-employment programs are shrinking. I don't know why, the money is actually more, and the offers are smaller. Public works could also be on a larger scale, of course there are no offers, because the level of confidence has fallen - following the programme to promote employment for workers with disabilities in the right way. Now, the law is ready, after four years of government has come somehow to this Parliament and, of course, expectations are particularly of those who are in distress, and the citizens who are in distress are getting more and more; even those who are employed are in an existential minimum, because the cost of living in Slovenia has thus risen. The fixed cost of living is high, those that are not actually affected by citizens. They have to pay for electricity, they have to pay for public television, despite their manners; they have to pay for free school - there are huge bills. In short, this is not the case, these programmes are not real and therefore we support this law in the New Slovenia Group. We support the law not only to compensate - equal opportunities for employment, in any place of our Slovenia, but also to generally improve employment, investment, and to prepare appropriate incentives from the financial field to make life in this Slovenia better. Europe will not wait or miss us. Everything we do will have to do with our own power, with our own prudence, and above all with a true sense of public interest. This bill, which is proposed, does indeed need to be complemented slightly, in terms of ensuring public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u168	Thank you very much for the position of the Group of Members. Janez Podobnik - instead of him colleague Franci Rokavec, position of the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members. With the proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment, our country has, of course, opened up an extremely pressing issue that we have tried more or less to solve, or in the context of coherent regional development. We have recently set up a ministry and, of course, regional development agencies to help achieve faster and more coherent regional development. In this light, we are also assessing the proposal for a law that is before us today. This proposal is now weak and nonconsistent in view of the legislation in force. In fact, work is contrary to some of the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we must admit that, on the other hand, the issue of unemployment in some areas is extremely pressing, and as a result, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is possible to correct and, of course, accept the necessary corrections and additions in further consideration. In fact, according to Death, which of course only records the registered unemployment rate, compared to 1997 and 2003, although of course it is necessary to say that, of course, several times the unemployment insurance law has changed, which of course has substantially changed the way in which we found registered unemployment in our country, we could actually find that real unemployment is not lower today than it was in 1997. Real unemployment, not registered. However, when we look at the data of Umarje and compare them between Slovenian provinces, we can find that the actual gap between the central Slovenian region and, of course, the pomurska, Podravska and Zasavsko region is one to two and even more. And this step is not being corrected or even sharpened in any way. Thus, the situation in the central Slovenian region is improving, but there are no significant indicators of reduction in other regions. This, of course, concerns us, and from this point of view, we feel that efforts must also be made in the light of the above - mentioned law on increasing employment in congregations with an average of unemployment. Of course, it should be stressed, however, that the proposal for a law has a kind of flaw and is in fact prescribing, on the one hand, the total amount of funds and, on the other hand, an incorrect form of candidacy for these funds. We believe that this path is not the wisest, since it is possible to allocate funds at some level or to open an invitation to tender without any limitation, under strict conditions as some kind of open annual invitation to tender for all who fulfil the conditions. In combination with both, despite unsuspecting means, it could happen that more claims, such as actual assets, would result in either rejection of applications or linear decomposition of applications. In both cases, there would be a reduction in entitlements and thus some way of eroding the law and, above all, its objectives. We therefore believe in the Group of Members that further consideration will have to make sense of these objectives. The next flaw in the bill's proposal is in an unwarranted criteria for candidateing. This allows all municipalities with higher unemployment than the national average to run for office, which will of course mean that either the available funds will run out very quickly or the funds will be so minimal that the municipalities will not decide on such a form of aid. There is another problem, namely the question of the compatibility of the draft law with the State aid rules and with the rules on taxation. The applicant did not state, of course, whether the proposal for a law is in line with those rules, in particular in view of harmful tax competition in the EU single market. We ourselves estimate that both aid, on the one hand, as well as tax relief in the form of non-payment of profits taxes or after the new income of legal persons, is contrary to the rules on non-discrimination at EU level. As a result, of course, the circumstances that led to these differences must also be taken into account. Indeed, in the four-year procedure, legislation that has been adopted has, of course, changed these criteria. Therefore, it is likely, and we believe so in the Group of Members, that the following attention should be paid to the revisions at a further stage, so that it will be part of the system of current forms of coherent regional development, so that this will be an additional measure. Secondly, to further develop the criteria for granting aid and to harmonise the draft law with the rules on state aid and corporate taxation, in particular in terms of the commitment to the EU acquis. Finally, in the parliamentary group, we assess that Slovenia needs this law, particularly in view of the fact that it will accelerate employment in municipalities with over-average unemployment, and in particular to address the trend of increasing imbalances or increasing unemployment in some Slovenian regions. Therefore, we will also support the proposal for a follow-up procedure in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u171	Madam President! Dear government officials! Fellow Members, Members! The proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with above-average unemployment, which was tabled in the 2000 procedure by a group of Members with first-signed Janez Janša, addresses the problem of unemployment related to the period 1996-1999. Therefore, it is certainly surprising, even in view of the applicant's introductory explanation, that, given the attention the opposition is giving to this issue, the opposition has decided to consider this law only now, even though it has had the opportunity, throughout this period, to propose the consideration of this point during this whole period of this mandate; and of course, it has not done so. At the same time, it is also important to point out immediately at the outset that, at the time of the postponement of the proposal, the Republic of Slovenia has also successfully reached the European Union countries in the light of its accession to the European Union after economic efficiency. Economic efficiency has also been successfully reflected at regional level, as the social gross product has increased in real terms in all twelve statistical regions. Much has also been done in the area covered by the content of the proposed law, so that most of the solutions, as proposed by first-signed Member Janez Janša, are already covered in a series of documents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly. Of this, I should mention only some documents such as the 2002, 2003 and 2004 Active Employment Policy Programmes, the 2004 National Employment Action Programme and the 2006 National Labour Market Development and Employment Programme. The data of the Slovenian Employment Office also show that the number of registered unemployed persons has decreased by more than 30,000 over the last five years. It also reduces the proportion and number of long-term unemployed, unemployed, with first or second education, over 50 years of age and with disabilities. Nevertheless, Slovenia, as well as other developed countries, still faces the problem of so-called structural unemployment, particularly in young people, first job seekers and in the employment of women whose main reason is a lack of, insufficient or inadequate level of education or professional qualifications. Regional disparities in unemployment also declined in 2003, for the first time in a few years. Unemployment has declined in eight statistical regions, including in South-Eastern Slovenia and the Podrav region, of which between the two regions with the largest share. The data also show that regional employment policy and policy show positive developments and that the objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia in the first years of its implementation have been largely achieved. However, we will be able to speak in full about ensuring a more evenly coherent development in the future when we consider the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development based on the 2003 status assessment report and will be addressed by the National Assembly at the May session. At the LDS, we have always advocated that the country develops a comprehensive system of measures and provides the necessary support for tackling unemployment problems, but in the way that everyone is responsible for their own well-being and for the welfare of the community or society in which they live, because the Chinese proverb already says that if we want to do well, we will not give them fish, but we will teach them to fish. In the LDS, we have never managed a political way to solve unemployment problems quickly and effectively only in the way that Ambassador Janez Janša proposes, to simply provide 15 billion tolars of budgetary resources, as set out in this proposal, which is before us today, and will again be able to justify the findings and the basis for the convening of such non-productive debates as we have seen them yesterday and today. We are of the opinion that it is the duty of the State to address this issue through in-depth analysis, with comprehensive solutions, as presented in the strategic documents prepared by the Government in recent years, in particular the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. In view of the fact that the government has prepared a systemic solution to ensure equitable coherent development, which the applicant uses as a reason for the adoption of the law, and for the reasons stated by me, we will not support the LDS proposal in the LDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u173	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The applicants, Mr Janš and Kelemina, request the consideration of the law which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure in February 2000. They request that the law be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting, although they have not done anything for four years to be included in one of the previous regular meetings and put it in a completely unchanged text. Even the statistics referred to are from 1999 and even the resources proposed for the implementation of the law are for 1999 to 2003. They haven't followed the situation in four years. In order to show apparent concern for the electorate, they introduced an old law. That already says enough about the seriousness of the applicants. Since 1999, the situation in the field of labour market and employment has changed significantly. In 1998, there were 126,000 more unemployed, now 30,000 fewer. There is also a decrease in the proportion and number of permanent unemployed, unemployed, with first and second levels of education, over 50 years of age and disabled persons. Slovenia has already fully adopted and implemented the so-called European Employment Strategy, with ten new employment guidelines. Last year, the rate of surveyed unemployment, measured according to the methodology of international organisation of work, was more than 2 percentage points lower than the average of 15 EU countries in the EU, 8.8, with us only 6.5%. Such results were not obtained by accident. As early as last year, we adopted a national action programme for 2004 which is already being implemented and is fully in line with European rules. It sets out policies and measures in the field of, for example, specific measures to address the negative effects of Slovenia's entry into the EU, a specific package to promote youth employment, a special unit to prevent long-term unemployment. In 2003 alone, some 12,500 new jobs were made from active employment programmes. The number of unemployed persons involved in education and vocational training has also doubled, making an important contribution to further reducing the structure of the unemployed. There are around 10,000 jobs at risk in enterprises, with a long-term perspective, particularly in less developed areas and in labour intensive sectors, which are in a particularly difficult position at the time of entry into the European Union. The Active Employment Policy Programme envisages and already implements specific measures for the employment of long-term unemployed persons over 50 years of age, first job seekers and young people with high education. Most of these also include tax incentives and facilitations, which directly contributes to the faster opening of new jobs. In 2003, the number of jobs in the labour force increased again, by only 33%, but it increased. Without active employment policy measures, the number of persons in employment would be lower than in 2000. Under all these measures, the specific target group is also unemployed women. In particular, and this is directly linked to the content of this law, it is necessary to stress the activities and measures taken to address the problem of the unemployed in the less developed municipalities. Since last year, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has allocated 70 of all available resources to active employment policy for areas with an average unemployment rate. In 2004, when a total of 21.3 billion tolars were available for this purpose, both in these areas, with an average unemployment rate of 14 billion 910 million tolars, almost as much as in one year as the programme and the proposal for a law assumes for a total of 4 years. Therefore, if we adopted the bill as it was prepared, the situation in municipalities with an average unemployment rate would worsen but not improve. This needs to be said, and this proves that the aim of the law's proponents is not to solve problems, but to create opportunities for the government's demagogic accusations in an area in which significant progress has indeed been made irrefutable and with data. And as a result of the implementation of government measures, regional disparities to unemployment decreased for the first time in 2003 after a few years. Unemployment declined in 8 statistical regions, most in South-Eastern Slovenia and in the Podrav region. And such a policy could produce even better results if regions were created in Slovenia. It is therefore contradictory and double-face that the bill's proponents state in explanation that the problem of reducing unemployment is left to the municipalities because regions or provinces have not yet been established, while at the same time the same bill-makers consistently oppose and prevent all attempts to create landscapes that can take care of more coherent regional development through regional development programmes and thus reduce unemployment. We know that the reduction of development differences and thus the unemployment rate in each region depends mainly on the overall economic growth of the area, the ability of businesses to absorb labour market offers and create enough new jobs, which also stimulates demand for highly skilled labour. It is also important that education programmes are appropriate to the needs of the labour market and that local communities actively participate in the preparation of regional development programmes. Therefore, it is particularly important to coordinate the functioning of all relevant policies, which must create conditions for an appropriate competitive business environment, so that sufficient resources can be invested in the development of human resources and thereby increase productivity and added value to the employee. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, by means of measures such as local employment programmes, by promoting self-employment and by promoting the relocation of production to areas with an average unemployment rate, takes care, within this framework, of the supply of adequate labour and assistance in the employment of persons facing any obstacles to entry into the labour market. It is right to say these results, but of course it would not be right to say that we are satisfied with the situation in the field of employment. We are aware that the loss of employment is the main reason for poverty and social exclusion and that we cannot be fully satisfied with the situation in this area until one person, who wants and will be able to work, is left unemployed; as long as the current so-called unemployment structure is mainly among young people, first-time job seekers and women's employment; until we ensure that we can all live together decently from our work, so that the socio-market economy, solidarity and social partnership can be established. However, this can only be achieved through appropriate economic, tax, labour, social, regional and employment policies and measures, not by speaking and demagogic. And the existing programmes and rules in force are more appropriate to further reduce unemployment than the solutions proposed by this law. All of this is proof that many programmes and activities have already been successfully implemented in the Republic of Slovenia, which deal better and stronger with unemployment issues. By adopting and implementing these activities and measures, we are particularly concerned with actions and results, not with pre-election demagogies. We're not going to support the bill five years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u175	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. That's right. I think that paragraph 59 of the Rules of Procedure is the one that gives the opposition candidate the opportunity to file it, and it is true that the investor did not file it. Not 2000, not 2001, not 2002, not 2003. On the other hand, it is true that, in addition to what the government has already done, the government can, for example, know for itself that this law, if it were to be judged that it would be good for us to have it, would do so. But let's just leave it. It is true that when I listened to the speakers in front of me, all of them, I felt that political charge and shooting those and those, which of course is wrong. And I'm not going to do that on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. In the Slovenian National Party, we basically assessed and thought that such a law would not be bad. It would not be bad for the municipalities, regardless of the statistical regions we have, irrespective of the regional centre, regardless of the office already established and regardless of the activities carried out by the competent ministries, most of them, of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In general, I believe that those colleagues, or some colleagues who experience mayoral activity at the time of the mission, know how difficult it is sometimes to get to a future investor and an investor who, of course, then allows employment. In the Slovenian National Party, let us assess that the content of certain articles of this bill is very good. Above all, the part that speaks - this is paragraphs 4 and 5 of the proposal. In fact, it would be much easier if, in the manner provided for in this law, the State helped the municipality and, of course, those companies that showed a serious intention of investing could be able to exempt payment, such as a tax on profits. It is also true that we have no one to correct me later, or that the congregations now have the opportunity to forgive investors for a certain period of payment, such as, I don’t know, compensation for building land. On the other hand, if the congregation did so, it would be much easier on a certain income, since such a compensation to a large number of congregations meant a great deal and even in such or offered ways would have been much easier for the congregation, you know, investors today are quite different than they used to be. A respected colleague from the government knows that we have at least a few opportunities and benefits that we can offer to those investors who would like to introduce and employ a new activity. But you know very well that these benefits are not enough for many, but they are. Unfortunately, it is also true that such a way, which is enabled by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Regional Development Office, allows for, of course, evidence, for many of the speculators to have a wonderful survival that comes, turns out to be a good one, who receives the funds allocated by the Ministry of Labour for the unemployed, and even though he promises to hire these people for a year, two or five, after six months, such an investor, when he cashes the money, is no longer there. This is happening, despite the fact that we have instruments that enable. He's gone, he's simply gone, and he's even legally covered, and they find each other in different ways. And this is what the Slovenian National Party believes is better written or allows easier and faster resolution or attracting investors. Also an assessment of the unemployment rate, which would, of course, be right to be currently mentioned in the explanatory statement - good, because a person can find himself anywhere. Firstly, it is not right that different criteria and different methods and even different rates are shown. One is according to European regulations, the other is calculated on the basis of comparisons of gross social product growth and the third is those which are real rates. I don't know, someone can say, like a fellow Member, Mr Potts, that the rate is, I'll say that unemployment is 10%, and he's telling the truth. And I can say that the unemployment rate is, I don't know, 17%, and I wouldn't lie, depending on what criteria you take. Of course, the question is also whether the recipient of State aid is unemployed or not and where you count it. Okay, but I mentioned unemployment in connection with this law because I think there is a lack of current data in the explanation and some similar data is missing, which would clearly show the real situation. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it would not be bad, and I will say as colleagues have previously adopted a slightly updated law. It would not be bad, it would also be good to complement all activities already being carried out through the competent ministries and through the Office. It would be useful, transparent and, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, with such a law, it would also be much easier to work for - I hope to say - at least most of the municipal authorities. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that we will support this bill and, of course, if colleagues are to adopt it at such a level, we expect it to be updated slightly in the next stages. I hope that the government's opinion and the assessment I have read may also, at least as it seems, pay a little more attention to this proposal than at least after what I have read, but this attention is. Perhaps it would be good to break down and analyze this law and find out that it would be necessary and that it would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u177	Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State and to the Secretary of State! Although, of course, without the slightest hope of anything happening beyond what is willful by the ruling coalition, it is worth the effort and the effort. I am convinced that such times as some others have elapsed after 50 years are being fulfilled. On the 6th page of the 2000-2004 Coalition Treaty, or on the 56th page, you wrote: "In the area of regional development, the main objective is to create conditions for reducing the development differences of regions by means of joint efforts and taking into account the differences and development options of individual regions. Promoting coherent regional development is aimed at reducing differences in economic development and living opportunities between regions, with a focus on preventing the emergence of new areas with major development problems, and so on. Well, and then, among other things, you write this down: "The integrity of implementing regional policy, among other things, is based on the principle of partnership "Colleagues and colleagues, if you talk to this government, then you don't know what this partnership is, but if it is with Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom, much less - "in the form of cooperation between the country and the local community". [[...]] If the partnership between the state and the local community is that they give 20% of the funds in the municipalities to pay for kindergartens, if you present it to the Minister of Finance and others, to the state secretaries responsible, and they shake hands, then this is not a partnership between the state and the local community. This is total ignorance or destruction, killing the local community in the long run. Unfortunately, it comes out of a coalition contract, if you don't know her, then you don't know why they're acting like that, but you do. Contrary to what they wrote, we can read in the 2002 Economic Gazette, at the end of September, the following: "Regional soup from the national catchment area. Ljubljana and its statistically defined central Slovenian region, according to some indicators, has been at least five years old. Who's left with anything else?" Just like the last term of office in politics, half of this national council consists of the Liberal Democracy - who else does it leave? But it's not that important. More importantly, it would be good for this country, for citizens and citizens, that any good proposal that comes on the bench after twelve years would be able to accept the ruling coalition. But don't do that. Well, it goes on to say who's the most and who's the least developed. Between the most and least developed Slovenian region, the purchasing power ratio is 1.7 to 1. It even says in government documents because they're newer, 1.95 to 1. This means that the differences between regions are not shrinking, they are not stopping, they are increasing. Not now with the finger to show for it, but the Minister for Regional Development is responsible for everything. It is not true that he is still in that position, or that part, while under the Ministry of Economy, he is doing some of his work that he can. Among other things, the Law on the Financing of the Congregations is guilty. It is guilty of the 1998 law, which states that calls for those areas which are in any way demographically threatened in these areas will be subsidised by the State from 10 to 70%. A colleague and a colleague, there was no such invitation! And then who can sign up for a call for 20 to 30% of state co-financing? The ones with the other 70%.Those who don't have it can't sign up for it. Thus, there are even greater differences that only increase. Among these documents I also saw a table of the 100 most successful gazelles, and it writes like this - this in pride of course, honour to the MPs from Pomurje, who have been in power for 12 years, but not so few, can be - the pomurs have managed to squeeze only one among the 100 'gasels'. You may wonder what you've been doing these years. It's either nothing or it's a little bit less! Who, of course, has the most gazelle? Central Slovenia, then 55 gazelles, then, of course, Savino with 11ths, Podravska with 8ths, etc., one, two, two and Koroška, etc., two and coastal-brake 4. In short, these are elements that point to the fact that, of course, we have done absolutely nothing in this area of coherent regional development.The law tabled by the opposition on 15 February 2000 of course wants to change something in this area. You'll say where to get 3.75 billion a year. We only spend about four and a half billion to five billion dollars a year on public works. I am not saying that this is wrong, but, with measures such as those in this law, they would not only teach these people to put from plate to mouth for these so-called public works, but, of course, through this law, to increase employment in the congregation with an average unemployment would give them the opportunity to fish. But that's exactly what you're objecting to. Why? Because it's obviously easy and easy to lead if, of course, you have a stick and a stick in your hand and give it to me. If you're good enough, you get it, but if you don't, you don't get it. And this is unfair, this is rude to Slovenian people, but of course, so many older people who have already invested much of theirs have done much, but of course unfairly, because there are no equal starting points, there are no equal starting options for young people. This is why in Slovenia we regret the high level of suicide, the alcoholism of crime in the Republic of Slovenia towards other countries in Europe. In fact, this is the only law that would, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which was adopted and amended in 1998, unfairly adopted, unfairly wrongly wronged those on the tail of development. Until then, if not already, we had a law on demographically endangered areas, where at least we had about 4 billion resources for infrastructure. In the last term, these 4 billion were halved and it was about half for the institutions of the so-called regional development agencies, which, of course, were mostly doing what they were doing, and what was done, they carried around those files under the armpit with doctoral addresses. Everything else we had to do in the municipalities alone or hire an institution to pay or even get out of the Ministry of Economics today because the Maribor Regional Development Agency wrote in the field of tourism Maribor with its surroundings, and in this area there are not any municipalities from the Slovenian Mountains. Shame on such a country, shame on it to support such matters. The only solution, of course, is the law proposed by the opposition. But, Slovenians and Slovenians, you'll obviously have to wait a few months for that. Otherwise, the decision is in your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. The unemployment rate has remained at 11% since the 1990s, when it jumped, and this month too. The fact is that now that Slovenia has become a full member of the European Union, it expects an increase in this, as all companies have not fully prepared and adapted to European competition. In the coming months and years, there is an even greater expectation that workers will be fired and the demand for employment will increase also due to the influx of workers from the new members of accession. Slovenia is also one of the Member States of the European Union with the highest unemployment rate. Unemployment is also not balanced across all Slovenian regions equally, but is expected to be inversely proportional to its development. So the greatest unemployment in regions such as Prekmurje and Zasavje, which are also less developed, makes it difficult for people to find new jobs. Promoting economic development and the long-term opening of new jobs should therefore be one of the main priorities of the country. We agree with the proposaler that huge financial interventions in economic giants keep jobs only for a short period of time and only prolong the agony in companies that cannot be dug out of debt due to size and underperforming. Such companies are, as a rule, in regions that are already too underdeveloped and do not have an effective plan for possible redundant workers. The Ministry of Economy, which should first and foremost ensure the promotion of entrepreneurship, self-employment and crafts, and invest in knowledge- and innovation-based enterprises, has simply done little here. In the previous session, we have adopted a law on the promotion of entrepreneurship, but we believe that only one law cannot change a complex matter such as unemployment in individual regions. It is certainly the congregations that know the problems and opportunities of their place and of its inhabitants. Even so far, many congregations have warned the government and ministries of the possibilities that individual congregations have but have often encountered deaf ears. Let us not blind ourselves to the fact that the draft law that we have before us will be adopted because the resources needed for its implementation are not reserved in the budget, but let us point out to the Government that the opinion of the municipalities and their comments and requests are more than unnecessary speech and that their proposals are the fruit of knowledge and knowledge of the local environment. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My word, Mrs. Potrato.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u181	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is not the first time that we are discussing the phenomenon that is very hot in our society and that is even more painful for those who are facing it than it is for anyone else who is just discussing and registering it or having to deal with it professionally. Unemployment is certainly an phenomenon that we associate with a reduced level of social security of an individual. And let statistics be as favourable in their trend as they are, for an individual, unemployment is always painful, as it is said. Why am I calling with a debate? Because Maribor is undoubtedly one of those municipalities where the unemployment rate is above the Slovenian average. However, I must point out that there are at least two things that bother me when I propose the law that I am discussing. Firstly, this proposal, which foresees measures for the period 2001 to 2004, is something that we are discussing, which is almost in the past. Secondly, however, it is possible to identify the transmission of proposals or measures on a whole range of proposals or measures. Indeed, the applicants of their solution have come to the conclusion that a special law that would enable municipalities to acquire special means of overcoming unemployment is necessary because we do not have organized or formed regions. It would appear that there have been several opportunities in the National Assembly to help this problem through the adoption of appropriate legislation. Another thing that in this context also leads me to believe that the solutions offered are not those that could actually reduce the problem, but that they simply ignored some positive effects that we can witness to. Not only are there short-term effects, but if the applicants reviewed the unemployment rate for a longer period, it would be at least possible for Maribor, for Podravje, to understand the steady decline at the annual unemployment rate, not to mention anything else. It is also not possible to overlook the fact that 70 % of all the funds earmarked for the various incentives for employment go to the areas of those municipalities where the registered unemployment rate is higher than the average. I do not close my eyes to the fact that in Slovenia it is possible to talk about different levels of development. I also know the data of macroeconomic studies and analyses which predict that we cannot promise for some parts of Slovenia in the future that the unemployment rate would suddenly be significantly lower than the average of Slovenian unemployment. However, let me point out some of the useful indicators that can be obtained in the Maribor employment monitoring service are newer than those that can be read in the proposed marriage text. Indeed, for the first two months of this year a slight increase in unemployment can be observed, but already March data suggests that the spring unemployment rate will decline. Also registered unemployment after district services is in the annual index, as far as Maribor is concerned, 91.75% should be reported. Or, for example, if we look at the number of registered unemployed people, but we see that the number of those groups that we consider structural unemployment to be the most critical, this is the proportion of unemployed women, the proportion of those that we consider to be first-time job seekers or unemployed who are more difficult to employ, that active employment policies in the area have shown positive results. We're talking about numbers moving between 1,000 and 2,000 per group. However, through targeted measures, with all the acts adopted, which were also discussed in the opinion of the Group of Members, it can be promised that a targeted active employment policy will also deliver better results in these municipalities. This is also the reason why I will not support the proposal of the law, although perhaps someone at the first ball would expect that it is that I come from the constituency and that we are in the electoral year, this is a sufficient excuse to support a law that cannot be a suitable basis for further consideration in some essential components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Lenk's word. You don't want to. My word to Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. When I listen to fellow Members and colleagues like this, it has often been said today that these laws that we have today at an extraordinary session, especially electoral gobbles and pre-election laws, where individual political options would like to pick political peaks. With regard to the specific proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment, I would like to state that it is once again a matter of first reading that the law is not fully acceptable, so that it can be brought into everyday life by such a dictatorship as the first reading actually suggested by the applicant. It is true, however, that the government has an opportunity through parliamentary groups as well as ruling coalitions with amendments to the law. In a way, I see no obstacle to the adoption of such a law. However, it is a very important issue, and I think that such a law should be proposed by the State Assembly, the DeSUS Group with President Rouss, headed by the fact that this was a DeSUS project, because this would also provide some other things if unemployment were reduced in Slovenia and productivity increased in this way. Of course, as for my colleague Potrate, who I listened to in depth, she forgot one important point to stress. What she said about Maribor and unemployment, in part, I fully agree with her, but she forgot to give some statistics that indicate this. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why did unemployment decline in the years in the town of Maribor in the Dravski Valley? And if you go to look at statistics, what are statistics on unemployment and employment, temporary employment, if I say so, through public works. However, employees through public works have increased twice or three times, and if they were to compare employees through public works in central Slovenia, it is said, in Ljubljana and the relationship towards Maribor, which is three times a small region or a small town, has twice or five times more employees through public works, but could get those numbers. Kolga Potrč, the Institute for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia carefully collects these data and these data are serious and worrying. I think that unemployment in this way, if you temporarily alleviate the social crisis, by employing it through public works, unemployment in the municipalities themselves or in statistical regions does not diminish. However, the fact is that unemployment is also greatly affected by some other indicators, where the country fell asleep in some way. And my colleague, Potrč, would probably tell me again that the Slovenian People's Party was in the previous government mandate, and I would certainly say that we have been working in the coalition all the time, both in the previous mandate and in the last mandate, working towards more coherent regional development. And respected colleagues and colleagues! At that time, we adopted, in 1998, a law on more coherent regional development, which the government did not adhere to and did not fully implement. However, it was not implemented because of such or different views on the budgetary deficit. And what I said yesterday, respected colleagues and colleagues, about the centralisation of capital and some other things, including human resources matters, is also reflected in the fact that the government has changed that we have abolished the Ministry of Development and Economic Relations. When we abolished this ministry, which was carried out by a number of projects, which was a draft law on more coherent regional development, it was clear that the ministry was urgently needed to have more thorough and more control over some of the statistics currently being ignored by politicians and all the macroeconomicists involved in these data. And more coherent regional development can indeed be developed in a way that allows us to have established regions and, through the Structural Funds, now that we are full members of the European Union, we have some resources. It is true, however, that if the country is not in its own way and through its decentralisation policy, which is the first condition for more coherent regional development, either the decentralisation of staff or the decentralisation of the economy, the decentralisation of the control of public finances and some of the things we have talked about, the more coherent regional development and the reduction of unemployment, both on the one hand or on the other, we will not receive. Trust me. And if we look at this table that the government gave us as an opinion on this law, the rate of registered unemployment as a percentage, we can see that unemployment in Slovenia is mainly the problem of the north-eastern part of Slovenia. And, gentlemen, the government should be aware of, and also of, the specific measures taken and taken in particular in this Styria-Pourski and Koroski work, where the central coastal and karst regions are well above the coastal, mountainous and mountainous regions, with a ratio of 1 to 2, says the central Slovenian region has 7.8% of unemployment in 2003. We look at the subterranean, with 16.2% of which we can count as many workers as possible, and through the public works of employees who go to work for that miserable salary, and in some ways, with the work they get through public works, they ease their social crisis and hardship. The fact is that some political decisions are also very important for more coherent regional development. In my own way, I am also surprised that this law is now before the elections on the agenda. Such important and substantive laws as this or more consistent regional development may need to be discussed in the National Assembly at the beginning of the mandate, a strategy and vision for reducing certain differences, both between central Slovenia and other regions that are strongly derogating. If someone thinks that, for example, when Mura is being rescued in Prekmurje - I am very glad that the government then decided to temporarily recover this company with a financial injection, because if Mura were in bankruptcy at the time, unemployment would probably increase in that part of Slovenia, the social crisis would increase. However, if the country is not going to be through some structural funds and through decentralisation and, as colleague Potrata has mentioned, some indicators in relation to the work of local self-government, I would like to point out that it is very important. On the one hand, I am also surprised that in this mandate we have not dealt with certain laws that speak both of the financing of local communities and of the financing of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, because usually the municipalities are the centres where the administrative statistical regions are. And in some ways, in this way, more public funds could increase investments in municipalities, and in this way they could redistribute certain funds. It would also be very interesting for some other experts to consider some statistics that show - and I have already talked about this - Slovenia is so small that, for example, between Ljubljana and Maribor it weighs 100 kilometers on the highway, even less on the airline - for example, mortality in men in Styria five years earlier than in Ljubljana, mortality in women seven years ago - or vice versa, seven years earlier in Maribor and Drava Valley than in central Slovenia. This also shows that these statistical data, not only the unemployment we are dealing with today, but also such statistical data, which are demographic data, show that the quality of life in these regions, where unemployment is at the very top, I think, above all, the post-graduate and sub-level region, is worse and poorer. That because a person lives outside the main center, an average of five or seven years, according to sex, before dying, in such a small country, less than 100 kilometers on an airline, he is very disturbing, even though he is funny to someone. Some internalists, who have devoted a very long time to the problem of mortality, have come up with some concrete data that some government representatives and authorities, who are firmly shaping policies for more coherent regional development, would have to take into account in such matters. We had to pay attention. The quality of life in the Republic of Slovenia must be guaranteed equally to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to all those living in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of where they come from. And these data, respected colleagues and colleagues, show that we are not in the same position and that we do not have the same quality of life. Although it will be a lot of fun for many people, the fact is that statistics suggest that the policy and attitude of Slovenian policy towards more coherent regional development will also need to be changed. And I hope to say that, although I am confident that I will be involved at this point in time with a possible replica or criticism that we will not ensure a more coherent regional development until we have substantially intervened in the local self-government and in the organisation of the second stage, the landscape is said to be. Another issue is how to ensure in the legislative process and how to provide for the landscapes and, above all, when we talk about the landscapes, the financing of the landscapes. Two months ago or a month ago, we had a constitutional change in our position on the constitutional change in the Constitution, as far as the provinces are concerned, but in such a way as was then presented in the National Assembly and in the vote itself, we will not be able and will not be able to ensure more coherent regional development. Although we do have different views and data here. Finally, a number of measures, such as governments, Slovenian policies, have an impact on unemployment in a region or in some municipalities. As I said yesterday at one of the points of the meeting of the National Assembly, how important was the Government's move and the individual minister's decision to adopt legislation regarding the change in the destination of buildings or the motorway programme. And I do not want to be critical of those who received these funds at a time when the highway was built around Ljubljana, through Ljubljana and through some wealthy municipalities. I am personally aware that it was necessary and that in the first place the capital of Ljubljana was, however, at the time the infrastructure around the capital city was built, the legislation also changed to the poor municipalities in Prekmurje, Styria and also Maribor, in the municipality of Maribor, Malečnik or Pernica, if I so call literal places, we can find that these municipalities are significantly reduced by the policy move for large financial amounts, as far as compensation is concerned. By comparison, the Municipality of Pesnica is thus deprived of 800 million tolars at the time of the construction of the highway through the municipality of Pesnica. 800 million tolars, however, means such a provision for such a municipality, which in second place after unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia, in order to make a strong effort to promote a small economy and development in the municipality, or to promote some other economic interests that could significantly reduce unemployment in those municipalities. It is true, however, that even as the city of Maribor, according to statistics in third place after unemployment, the municipality of Ruše is the first to be located in the municipality. To the extent that this is true, and to the extent that such funds would be derived from the remuneration of the building plots, it would be right for those mayors where they operate in the local community to recategorise the funds for the purposes of supporting certain projects within the local community that have a significant impact on the reduction of unemployment. If someone thought that in this way we would ensure that parts were increased and that funds were opened up and allocated and that resources were provided for employment through public works, and if these statistics were to compare where and in what way and compared with the number of employees in the municipality, we could find that statistics were still relevant for the public works in these regions of statistics sent to us by the Government, which were significantly different and even more worrying than those data and also those data should be taken into account. Therefore, I will personally support this law in the first reading, although I am sure that the government coalition will probably not support it and will not show interest in the second reading, together with the government, in preparing such amendments so that those who are at the very top of unemployment, including through such legislation, try to reduce unemployment, increase development, increase investment and thus ensure a more coherent, equitable development of the whole of Slovenia. In the EU, we have now become full members, it is perfectly clear and well-known what all EU members are fighting for and why they have set up structural funds. As they are aware that differences both within individual countries need to be reduced within the EU and thus ensure, once again, the equivalent and quality life of all EU members, whether they come from Spain or France or Slovenia. And in this regard, it will be necessary in the coming political period, in the next term of this National Assembly, to cut down strongly into this structure of legislation and to try to ensure that it actively begins to reduce disparities between regions, and in particular I think between central and other regions. Once again, I have nothing against Ljubljana. I'm aware it's the capital. It is true, however, that you must all be aware that we are all the same under the Constitution, that we deserve a balanced, quality and dignified life by means of the Constitution. This is strongly influenced by Slovenian policy and the adoption of such or other legislation. And one of these laws is still on the agenda today. Once again, for these very reasons that I have stated, I will also support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Gračner's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u185	Thank you. Well, I come from one such municipality, from Trbovlje, where unemployment is above average, Zasavja, which has recently been extremely much spoken of in Parliament, as if they were really the richest region in Slovenia. My opinion on the law that we are talking about is that it is a perfectly ordinary pamphlet to contain an outdated product from 2000, signed by Members who are not Members at all anymore, who have all proved to be concerned about those regions and, in fact, about those municipalities where there is great unemployment, and which contains completely all the elements of diversion, hypocrisy, pre-election action, especially because we accept it or because it has come to an extraordinary meeting, especially now in the pre-election period. But the facts are completely different. But I will focus on the things that have been happening in Zasavje and why, in fact, in Zasavje, this level of unemployment is above average. This explanation also stated that the construction of TET 3 was an attempt to solve Zasavje’s unemployment. That's not true! The 1996 Energy Development Strategy in Slovenia defined such an object as energy-important. Only the 2004 national energy programme has changed this fact. And what colleagues, Janša and Pukšič used to say, how they care about such regions, for such a Zasavje, and all those signatories who are here, all of them are also found in the referendum for Thermoelectrica 3. And it was this referendum, this unexpected decision to close the mine, or, first of all, not to build the thermal power plant, and later to close the mine, that led to problems that occurred in the Rippers in 2000. In fact, we had been faced with energy in this Zasavje for 200 years before, and Zasavje was created by energy. Then it is your decision, just those who are here who would like to wash their bad conscience with one such couple from 2000, written on the four sides, to solve all the problems. And they're not here yet, so at least we can say something or answer it. Like this, I really can’t get over and get past him as a human being or as a Sussak. And I'll tell you that in Zasavje, there are humble, honest, hardworking people. They came to Zasavje for work, not for pleasure. There were mines, they came from all over the place, they worked there for 200 years. Fortunately, some companies are also successful, even internationally successful, but now, as if all this anger of yours, all of your power has come to this poor Zasavje. What will we do with this law, even if we adopt it today? Nothing but that you can, after the elections, say, yes, you know, when the gentlemen who are all invited to Zasavje will see what fairies we have in Zasavje, and what yachts, but I don't know what else, come to Zasavje and see what the situation is, what the situation is, what the situation is, we'll invite you to the poorest areas, come. No one ever comes. People will also tell you how they feel about you, how they feel about your referendums. None of you have ever been down. So, I would like to point out that you want nothing else to do with this law than to be able to speak at the time of the election campaign, yes, because we would, you know, do everything to you, we had a special law for the Rippers ready, but your Members would not want to accept it. So you'll have that bad conscience of yours when you've done nothing. And if we didn't do anything, everything would still be fine, but you stopped, you destroyed certain things. So I'm really asking you to think about what you're doing next. But if you're doing something, at least be that much, I don't know, adjust the time properly, and you don't write the 2004 yearbook here. Of course, invited to Trbovlje, we will show you all the fairies.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would be particularly pleased to welcome the first one under this law, Mr Janez Janša, but unfortunately he is not in the Chamber, which is another proof of how serious they meant by this law, which they proposed four years ago. True, local government and unemployment have a connection. They have mainly because the unemployed live in these local communities. The local communities, however, have no real power and no leverage to prevent unemployment. The second reason is that we were able to divide Slovenia into many small, impossible congregations, I think in this case that they would change the conditions for employment within themselves, and that was all we did. The other part that everyone was expecting or we were expecting to establish, however, the provinces or regions that would act in a coherent way and that would go beyond the municipal framework in these matters, in development matters, and here we stood still, in a step that we call constitutional change, and here the story in this mandate is likely to end, despite all the predictions. Unemployment must be one of the hardest trials a person can face in his life. The material, psychological, social, health, and other consequences of the unemployed, as well as their surroundings, can be very dramatic. Work is undoubtedly a prerequisite that enables a person to maintain his dignity and life's optimism, although it is also true that as a society we have already agreed that he is no longer full of employment that we knew before the good fifteen years ago. Therefore, it is certainly right that the National Assembly should repeatedly speak seriously, I say, seriously about the problem of unemployment and, in this context, in particular, about solving this problem in environments where unemployment is high. However, it should not be hard on the shoulders of severely affected people to start a normal pre-election demagogy because it is simply not moral. I would like to draw attention to some problems, as well as to some achievements in solving unemployment in our area. The National Employment Action Programme and the 2004 Active Employment Policy Programme also define measures to reduce regional disparities in employment rates and the structure of the unemployed. Active employment policy funds are prioritized in regions with an average unemployment rate of 70% to 30% towards regions with an average unemployment rate. The aim of such a distribution of resources is certainly to encourage employment in less developed regions, to increase the geographical mobility of workers in the underdeveloped areas, to ensure social inclusion and to create new jobs and to increase the flexibility of businesses. The Velenje Regional Service has been among the regions with an average registered unemployment rate since 2002. I should be allowed to compare only for Koroška, where it increased from January 2002 to January 2004 from 11.5% to 12.3%. We know the reasons for this increase in unemployment in Koroška. However, it should be stressed that positive trends are showing during the first trimester of this year, as both the reduced inflows of unemployment and the fall of unemployment, increased employment and a positive change in the structure of the unemployed are showing. These are the conditions that lead to a greater outflow from unemployment and, as a result, have an impact on the reduction of unemployment. Clearly, an active employment policy programme in the area aimed at increasing the employability of unemployed people through different forms of training, ensuring social inclusion through different group and individual programmes, both for disabled people and young people, in creating jobs through employment programmes that are more difficult to employ, is quite successful. So I also think well spent funds amounting to over a billion, including scholarship funds. Of course, I am aware that one of the statistics is such a favourable one, and this is a beneficial one compared to most European countries, and the real problem among the unemployed is something else. Surely the problem of the unemployed is dramatic for them and for their loved ones, and we can never be satisfied with the results of eliminating unemployment as long as we have unemployed people who can and want to do it. So the unemployed who can work are able to work, and they actually want to work. They also fall under the provisions of the law in the register of unemployed persons, because I believe that there are also those who do not want to do the work. I myself have said several times in this assembly that the state should therefore allocate more resources to address the problem of unemployment, especially unemployment, to more difficult working groups than first-time job seekers, older, less educated and disabled people, as unemployment is also one of the biggest developmental problems of our society. The country is therefore likely to have to finance employment in the future for a much larger part of the more difficult part of the different programmes linked to the non-governmental sector. Finally, I would like to stress the activity of the last month, which can improve the situation with regard to policy coordination and action to tackle unemployment in our region. This is the establishment of a Council of Partners composed of 15 members, both from Koroška and from the Savino-Shales region, proposed by 52 social partners from the types of municipalities, representative unions, regional, economic and trade chambers, development agencies, education and inter-enterprise education centres, centres for social work and other stakeholders. It is therefore impossible to assess our employment policy as well, because, as I have already said, as long as we have one unemployed person in the institution who is willing to work, we will have to take care of him in an active employment policy. At the same time, however, it is inappropriate to criticise and show that nothing has been done during this period. It has been taken a step further, but of course they are ahead of us, both in our region and in other, additional challenges, and I would like to stress in particular how important it is, in the beginning, that what I have said is the integration of municipalities into the provinces, the establishment of landscapes and the establishment of regions that can exceed municipal frameworks, especially with a view to the development of our local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Cheligo to the floor. Can I help you? No, you don't. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I knew it was bad in Zasavje, but I didn't know that it had gotten so bad in the time of this government. Now, earlier, Mr Potræ said that regional development differences had decreased. Mrs Zdenka Kovac said here for the last time to the opposition's question that regional development differences had not increased. And I'm saying they've grown. I looked at this information that we got yesterday, talking about the list of recipients of state aid on the public tender and on which Ultra is receiving. And I note that in all three years, the Ministry of Economy of Pomurje, where these developmental differences are the largest, has spent a total of 35 million, and that almost half of that in Lendava. This must be Mrs. Possonchev's credit. The gun I came from didn't get anything. Zero. "Nothin'." Nothing. And we are facing a major unemployment problem. I don't believe these companies signed up for these invitations. I don't know what the reasons are. And speaking or not talking about unemployment, you say it's a pre-election topic. You must know that this will be one of the pre-election themes in the election campaign itself. Of course we'll talk about it. 30,000, you say, the number of unemployed has decreased. But there's still over 100,000 of them. There are still more and this must concern this government, which has been in power for 12 years and will have to answer this question why so much unemployment. This is a major problem for the Republic of Slovenia. And that's all I'm saying is that the current Prime Minister also notes when he sent out this remarkable survey across Slovenia, where he asks citizens in the first question of how they will celebrate May 1st, and then at the press conference finds that the citizens are writing back to him that they are living in severe social distress and that the ruling coalition has neglected social rights in that country. So unemployment is certainly the first and greatest among [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u190	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u191	Yeah, I'll be done because my time is up. Thank you for allowing me a little overstatement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u193	Thank you very much. High unemployment and a high level of corruption, both of which are very significant in our society, are actually the worst social and social consequences. And instead of improving in recent years, we are witnessing a deterioration in this situation. Even four years ago, when we tabled this bill, the situation was bad. But then many people believed that the story of success was real. That it's not just a bubble, that it's not just propaganda. Today it is clear to all that this was a successful propaganda action, but that social differences have increased significantly. That unemployment is not reduced in some regions and that some regions are still very disadvantaged or are becoming increasingly deprived. As a result, a law that provides development incentives is urgently needed. And this marriage is something like that. Look, these indicators that appear in various statistics, how they are with some regions, are inexcusable. Here I have a publication of the 100 most successful gazelles and the Premur region has only one gazelle among the most successful in the end, the central Slovenian has 55, and then they are all under 10 and so on. And this clearly shows that such programmed funds for development incentives are not going to be in a region where the problems are the biggest, but rather that they are political relations, and what we are supposed to be talking about yesterday, and you have not allowed us to talk and show evidence that this is going on through some strange political channels. And there is a need for law and law to improve these matters. In addition, we have additional negative trends and phenomena in view of the situation of four years ago. Look, what happened in Maribor, that the bankruptcy managers were laundering money, they put more than a billion funds into some private pockets, into private accounts, it's on account of the fact that the situation, which is already so desperately bad, unacceptable, is getting worse in that area. These are the people who have managed the fates of tens of thousands of lawless workers who have been defrauded, deceived, and are now again defrauded. I don't know when it's actually gonna be necessary to say that something has to be done, something has to be done.If we come up with some kind of law, then one part of these Members says that it's unheard of, that it shouldn't be in such a way that we have institutions to do something about it. However, institutions do not act or act. Years ago, we passed a law on coherent regional development, which is a dead letter on paper, and this is no concern of anyone that certain regions are lagging behind. And, of course, you will still oppose this law. I already hear your findings, your thoughts, and keep talking. Even if it were a pre-election campaign, it would be good to legislate, because the country would have to go somewhere else and there would be more tolls for these regions. But because we have to spend time and we're strictly limited and we can't talk [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, no, because there's almost ten more of our applicants. [[Laugh.]] So I'm not even going to talk about it anymore, I'm going to give my colleagues time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sušnik to the floor. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President! I'm not going to make any judgments on my own. I would like to post just a few of the data that I have received that are available on the national portal of the Republic of Slovenia under the heading Public Information and which further show the pressing problem of unemployment and, in this regard, the need for adoption of the law, or of what we have proposed, or of any situation that would at least ease this unsustainable situation, if it has not already rectified. It is symptomatic that the table showing the number of registered unemployed persons per municipality is accompanied by a table showing the average net and gross monthly salaries per municipality. I'm talking about the February 2004 data. And in these tables, where the highest employment rate is, in the next table, where we are talking about gross and net salaries, these amounts are also the lowest. I'll only afford two figures. All are aware that the average gross salary for February 2004 is 254,752 tolars, net 161,956. At least two municipalities would need any intervention. I will indicate that in the municipality of Polzela in February 2004 gross average salary is 171.121, net 115.053 and in the municipality of Prebold gross average salary per employee is 188.899 and net 121.901 tolar. That information speaks for itself. He is even more eloquent when compared with the city of Ljubljana where the average gross salary for the municipality of Ljubljana was 313,418 tolars in February, or the net of 191,984. In Ljubljana, Ljubljana, there were 10,654 people working in the municipality of Ljubljana at the time. Well, there is an even more talkable table indicating the working population by municipality for February 2004. And when we look at this data, we need to make it even more clear that there is something we need to do in this area that we need to adopt a law. I am speaking exclusively, once again, about the data officially listed and whose source is the statistical information of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia of April 2004. According to this data, there were 1,997,919 inhabitants in the Republic of Slovenia. Of these, 775,632 were employed. Somehow this means that one working resident had to live on 1.5 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, please listen to the following information. For the municipality of Vransko, where I come from, the data is here in this table that 2634 employs 618 active people, which means that one person, that one working population, is active, and 3.26 are still employed, or the population. The data is even worse for the municipality of Braslovče. For the 5066 population, these tables state that there are 727 people in employment, which means that there are almost six people in employment who have no job or who create nothing. The situation is even worse in the municipality of Tabor. There are 1,500 people, 161 active people, or one population, who are not creating, indirectly affecting the situation in the municipality. In order not to remain only in the Savina Valley, according to this information, I stress that this data is on the website of the national portal of the Republic of Slovenia under public information, there are 166 working people in 1364 and 7 other residents who do not work according to the statistics of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we get an even clearer and even more burning picture accompanying officially recorded unemployment, and therefore I think it is still necessary to adopt a law that will encourage and increase the possibility of employment in municipalities where they are faced with over-average unemployment or where we encounter a small number of active people. That's it. I've already told you, I'm not giving any grades. These are official data from websites and from a communication transmitted by the administrative unit as an exposition from the Ministry. Once again, the difference is huge. In the case of an average of 1.5 people per working population per country, this ratio is 1 to 3, 1 to 5, 1 to 7 and 1 to 8,31 in the municipality of Tabor, Savinjska Dolina. There is much more to be done to eliminate this imbalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Mr. Kelemina, please. Yeah. Mr. Kelemina, many of you have been reported for discussion. I spend some time seeing who's in the hall, who's not in the hall. Mr. Bajuk, I don't think he has any more time. Mr. Squirrel? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kremjar, I don't think so. And he's not. Mr. Kelemina, you've been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u197	Thank you. I'm sorry it's going very fast, and then I'll miss it. Thank you very much. Your Honor! Since I am one of the sponsors of this law, only some of the comments you may have made during the debate would try to explain. It is true that this proposal was tabled in March 2000, but nothing in this area has changed so far. You've all admitted and said that today there's still a lot of unemployment, etc. and that this is a burning problem and that it needs to be resolved, but of course, that there is neither the right time nor the right material nor the right shortcut, nothing is appropriate. [[...]] But look, the principle of this bill is that unemployment is realized and saved at a microlevel where it has to be resolved, in municipalities. How many times in this National Assembly have I advocated giving the necessary policy to be adopted by the National Assembly, which is somehow being promoted and created and built by government bureaucracy, that it must be put into practice. But where do you think we're gonna make this happen? Like some of you think that you will, or some of the Members and Members you have discussed earlier, think that you will save unemployment by sitting on your seats in your seats, in your seats. No, it's impossible. Unemployment must be resolved directly in the environment where it occurs. And only the congregations can do this in the most effective way. With bureaucracy, with administration, with all the things you do, you'll never eliminate unemployment, I've said it a thousand times. It's just too bad you're sitting on your ears. But in 2004, you proposed a law on a supportive environment, and so on, in March, I think we adopted it, you proposed 4 billion money for this bill, and that's what the privileged will get, that's for sure. Yesterday we heard who everything is and how it happens, in short, it's a living truth. We also have a law about helping businesses in trouble, something like that called, you know exactly where that money went. Where'd he go? Why don't you say it? Once again, the privileged and so on and we know where the greatest privileged were. I will not argue that they are not justified, that it is not necessary, but that there is a lot of wrong business policy and no one is responsible for the wrong business policy. Nobody in this country. All right, so be it. As for the same bill, which you dispute, the majority, some such new forms, others, themselves and the government, representatives of the government and members of the coalition always say that differentiation, pluralisation, more institutions, in short a very broad support environment, different operators and so on. Okay. Then, if we go into such pluralism, then let us give another form that will further help to develop or prevent unemployment. Why not? Only those forms can be possible, which you suggest, and the other is not possible. And those issues that you speak and the principles that you speak about in one marriage are completely different to those of the other. That's funny, and you're actually denying yourself with every next word you say. In short, we also had resources for the demographically threatened; I've said this a thousand times, and nothing helps because you're sitting on your ears. Today, at least as far as coherent regional development is concerned, municipalities would receive these funds for the demographically disadvantaged, and those municipalities that are actually demographically threatened and most in need of assistance would receive them. If only for Posavia, we have received significantly less regional aid in recent years than we would have received, say, all three municipalities, a small region or a province, whatever it is, because it does not matter - significantly less money from regional development than it would have gotten from funds for the demographically disadvantaged. Is this then an incentive? Please, this is a disgrace! This is disgrace and exploitation and pamphlets. And these are pamphlets, not what we give. These are pamphlets, because you speak for a whole series of laws, from regional development and all the rest of what will happen, but nothing happens at all or gets less and less money instead of more, where it is most necessary. And, Mr. Gračner, there's only one thing I'd like to tell you. Instead of making an angry appeal here, you're begging the opposition, spitting, insulting, we'd rather support this bill. [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u198	Please! Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Please don't disturb him in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u199	We'd rather support this bill. See if you're so poor in Zasavje, isn't this proposal actually written on the skin of Zasavje? Isn't it written on the skin of Zasavje, this bill? Of course it is! And how it's written on the skin, let's support it and you'll get a lot of resources for development. A lot of resources so you can open up new jobs. But you spit on this law with all the cannons you have at your disposal and deny everything that is written down. The most resources would be to get the Zasavje out of this law. Yeah, that's it. Read your marriage if you haven't yet! And I'll tell you this, I'd love to come to Zasavje if you'd like to invite me, but I'd like to see the results of your work, what you've done so far in your life. That's what I'm really interested in. Then I'll send you to Zasavje to watch what I've done in my life and somewhere else. Thank you very much. Bye!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Gračner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u201	Thanks for the replica. Like my colleague Roman said, it's true. There is talk in Parliament, and I have said very well what I think about this law, and so is it. Look, we are considering this bill now, in 2004, and it is dated 2000. Yes, what we will now do with this law if we have a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, which was adopted in 2000. And then there was something else. At first you called that referendum, then of course you succeeded, at 20% of the participation, and then what happened? Then one of these candidates, who were written here, who was later also Minister, Mr Zagozhen, also a signatory to this referendum, further hampered the closure of this Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine in 2000, so that in 2000 365 million tolars were not released for development. So I have to tell you this. Of course, this question of what I've done in my life - a lot of things, I'm not here to explain what I am, then we can talk, and we'll have a little [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u202	Please, Mr. Gračner, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u203	Mostly, I've never hit anyone before. As I said before, the invitation to Zasavje is valid for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u204	Mr. Gračner, please, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u205	We'll go and see the fairies [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u206	Then have a discussion with Mr. Kelemino. [[...]] Thank you very much. Please, I don't think there's anything left. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Vissiak. Here you go. Please, Mr Vizjak, if you will calm down as a Member, I invite you to your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I'll be very quick. Look, stats. Here I heard representatives of government parties talking about reducing registered unemployment and so on. Of course, you need to know that the numbers that were years ago included a certain category that today does not include. You know that those who are not active job seekers are erased from their records because they are no longer unemployed. The unemployed person by law is the one who is an active job seeker. So comparing these numbers and talking about some fantastic successes is good for someone who doesn't know what's behind these numbers. But behind these numbers is the fact that the unemployed are, in fact, roughly the same across the board, that this number does not fall. And also the misleading data of the survey of unemployment, which is the only one, then of course the European is somehow acceptable, is also particularly low in Slovenia, because many who are unemployed are not unemployed. And then, of course, that's why So I am particularly interested in this special record from the Ministry, which it is, and that is why I have also announced an oral question today, sent to the Minister, because I am interested in how many of these people are in the special records that are unemployed and are not active job seekers. I'm hoping to get that information, too. And I believe there is one. Look, it is true that we have a whole bunch of strategies, that we have a normative regime adapted to the European Community, that we even have a bunch of action programmes, and that's good. But the bad news is, of course, that the effects of these written words are poor. They are weak in this critical work, which is to increase the disparities in unemployment between regions. Regions have no equal opportunity to develop the economy, to develop, not because of some normative issues, but because of objective circumstances. Not all regions are equally transport-related, not in interesting areas and so on. Of course, that is why people there face greater unemployment. And the purpose of this law is in some way to systematically ensure that more and easier problems of unemployment are solved in these areas, which have objectively poorer opportunities for economic development and employment. It is also a fact, and it is true that the government devotes more money to an active employment policy, and we have also warned MEPs in this House on several occasions and have also tabled these respectable amendments. It is true that more money is spent on active employment policies or on active measures than on passive forms. That is also true, but the effects of this money are unfortunately insufficient. This is the essence and the point is that, of course, these regional differences are increasing. And this law is as valid today as it was four years ago. And if any Member may be disturbed by a number, he is disturbed only by the fact that this law is on the agenda today. I think it's cynical that someone said that you would, why we didn't force this law on the agenda before, because we could, like the opposition that we have a chance to propose to one session, while the government has all the other 48 proposals or how many, because we also had such a meeting with almost 50 articles. Thus, if the government were in the interest, this law would have been adopted substantially earlier. I think the basic idea of how to reduce regional unemployment is good in this law and I am also surprised at the government when I read her opinion that she does not listen to one of the ideas about how to deal with the differences in Slovenia and how to reduce them, because I think we owe it not least after the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan is out of time. I don't think there's anyone else who'd still have time to report it. More proponents. To the word of Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u209	So after this debate, this law will also experience the same fate as it did in 1999. The rulers will reject it if it's not good. The same reason was stated five years ago by the fact that a promise was made at that time, how a system law would be drawn up at that time, which would fully regulate it. At that time, no system law was drawn up. So in the last five years, the situation has almost completely improved, not when it comes to general numbers on unemployment, not when it comes to the structure of unemployment, but when it comes to regional distribution in unemployment. Of the 12 statistical regions there are 6 supra-Slovak averages. The Slovenian average is 11.2%, and precisely these 6 regions were above the average even five years ago. These are the pomurska, Podravska, zasavska, podneposavska, Savina and Koroša regions. Koroška 12.6% unemployment, Savinska 13.5; Lower Posavska 14.9; Zasavska 16.1; Podravska 16.2; Pomurska 17.5. The Sava region, for which a special law had been passed at that time, established the Development Fund, at that time almost nothing had reduced unemployment, even though many billions had been placed in the region. But as we have read in recent weeks, much of these billions have gone into the hands of those who already have their hands full of money. Not where we would actually encourage some new programs. And also unemployment in those regions that are on average has not decreased significantly at this time. Thus, in five years, those who rejected this law in 1999 have not prepared any solutions and have not improved the situation. At this time, however, more money has been spent for these purposes than we have proposed to co-finance these reliefs without any effect. Otherwise, anyone can say that the situation would be even worse if the money were not spent, but it does not convince anyone. If anyone else believed in 1999 that the government would come up with a better solution, then probably in 2004, when we are in the same situation, it is not possible to believe that. Nevertheless, in the light of the debate, we feel that the law will fall because there is no signed right-wing proposalr. Again, the problem of the one who proposed something is not the issue of content. All would be in favour of solving problems when a concrete proposal is offered and then voting against. Not for the first time, for the second time. This time it's the second time. We are constantly listening to the evidence that the opposition has no constructive solutions, no proposals for economic development, to improve the situation. We have proposed the same thing this time for a second time, and again after five years it is possible to hear the same words of opposition. Just so they sound a little cynical right now. I also point out that in some parts the situation has not remained unchanged, as statistics show, but has worsened. Statistics reflect some average. And this average is calculated after the ones that are below and the ones that are above. And other macroeconomic indicators show that the statistics remained the same on average. But the legs are far apart. Social disparities have increased significantly during this period. In these last five years and the last five years, from which we have waited for the mercy of the rulings, that they may do something in this area, social differences have increased dramatically. On the one hand, there is a narrow layer of extremely rich, and on the other hand, it is not a narrow layer of extremely poor, but tens of thousands. The current government coalition and government have increased in the last two years the number of recipients of social assistance, according to those below the poverty line, from 40 to 60 000. Fifty percent. And they, of course, represent the average, which means that there are a few hundred extremely rich people on the other hand who contribute to this average. And don't worry about it.He's still raping people with social rhetoric, and on the other hand, social differences are rapidly increasing. The greatest contribution to the increase of these 10,000 a year, those who fall below the poverty line, of course, has unemployment. When people lose their jobs, they still have a few months of social support or compensation for losing their job, one more, one less, then they need a few more reserves and then they fall below the poverty threshold. This power, which will now vote against our law, increases every year the number of those who fall below the poverty threshold by ten thousand in recent years. No one mentions it, no one sees it, no one talks about who is responsible. If this goes as well, if the number grows at the same rate as it has in the last two years, we will have 100 000 recipients of social assistance within two years, which is 5% of the total population. We will thus come among the countries that are most socially divided, despite the fact that it is in our constitution that we are a social state and, despite the fact that in every performance by the Prime Minister, the State, Parliament, the representatives of the various branches of government, we are listening to how Slovenia's greatest success is, an essential part of the success story that it has preserved some social peace. Look at the specifics, see how you have increased poverty at this time on the one hand and on the other hand a handful of extremely rich people, and you will see what a success story is like for whom. For the reform of the tax policy that has been adopted, we expected this thing to calm down a little bit, so that there will finally be a serious or real taxation of profits that are not invested in further development and that are not invested, let's say, as we suggest here, in municipalities with an average unemployment rate. But this did not happen, they are still protected by specific groups, including tax legislation. The measures that we have proposed to eliminate unemployment or to reduce unemployment, to increase the number of jobs in municipalities with over-average unemployment, have been tested by a number of countries in different combinations and we have proposed this combination between local authorities and state aid measures, which are combined and acceptable in accordance with all European guidelines. However, this was not acceptable in 1999 to the ruling and is not acceptable today. What is most disturbing, as it is possible to judge from some of the debates, is that we are here offering a transparent system, a system where companies would compete in open competitions and calls for evidence that the criteria are actually met. Where there would be no privileges where funds would be shared [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the basis of serious intentions that someone will increase production, increase the number of jobs, but not only on the basis of some fictitious promises that are then not verified. This may have been the case with many people because, I repeat, the resources we are proposing are nothing greater than those currently being used and would be significantly more effective. Since the last five years, when this law was not in place, show that the resources allocated by the government on the basis of their partial solutions have virtually reduced unemployment in Slovenia and have not reduced unemployment where the problem is most pressing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I conclude the general debate. We will move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina, Pukšič, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. Your Honor! The supremacy from where I come from is also Pomurje, as well as Zasavje this proposal of the law is still needed, so I will certainly be happy to support it. It's just the first reading, the dates and all the other numbers that bother you so badly, we can still fix it later if you want. Of course, those places from which the President of the Union of Fighters, 1960, comes do not need this. That's definitely it. But they'll help each other in other ways. I would also suggest to everyone who is affected by you as a province, as an underdeveloped region, that you try to support this bill and, of course, by doing so, you will somehow exceed your client framework and what you said before and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u213	Thank you very much. With the policy that has been going on for the last eight years to demographically endangered areas, up to half or 60% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia by the ruling coalition, it shows what official statistics and all the data used by representatives of the ruling coalition show that the trend of decline, which has not even stopped, is only to turn the trend towards development in these areas in a positive direction. Moreover, with the burden of local communities with such and different legal material and obligations, available funds are available in local communities for investments in the initial phase, mainly investments in municipal infrastructure, and in other mandates of municipalities for school construction, i.e. infrastructure, health care and so on, and in some of the so-called commercial and business zones, these funds have, of course, decreased. At times, we had between 30% and 40%, today between 5% and 10%, which is not enough to maintain the communal infrastructure itself. It would be logical to have 12, 15 or 20% of gross domestic product in the field of local self-government, but of course not. This law, to put it mildly, is only a patch to the wound if we accept it, and at least as far as the Liberal Democracy could do, otherwise the dismantling of Slovenia will take place, as was the case with the dismantling of national pride.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Drobnič, Grošelj, Švagan. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u215	I will support this marriage. It was right through today's debate that the law was needed. However, this law alone will not be able to address sufficiently the consequences of other inadequate policies in other areas. Employment as such, balance, of course, is carried out not only through employment policy or the distribution of budgetary resources - of course this is necessary - but through the management of economic, financial and tax policies. And this one hasn't made a positive move in recent years. Look, the government hasn't answered a few key questions. Where are the 14,000 so-called deleted to get the real picture of the unemployed, the registered unemployment? What happened to 22,000 self - employed people, why are there fewer? This is the data that shows the picture of economic policy. How Slovenia is open to investments, investments by domestic investors and investments from elsewhere. Because of these monopolistic peripetions and clienteleism, of course, external investors turn away and go elsewhere. They go elsewhere and we have a number of cases that have been avoided by Slovenia and are increasingly avoiding it. And also the latest research we received in the Finance Diary showed where Slovenia went on the basis of such an economic, financial and other policy. Just in the opposite direction. On this basis, it is still necessary to adopt a law that might be supplemented in New Slovenia. However, there will be a lot more to be done in economic policy. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. If you allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, there is a predominant view in Zasavje that the SDS is the graver of our further development. You are the one who, in 1999, when the law on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine was also passed, with the amendment that in implementing this law in the third part, I am talking about the regional development of the Sava region, taking into account the law on coherent regional development. When you voted on this, you also achieved that in each project, the congregation must work to change its structural policy in the individual congregation, first to provide its own resources. Even in 2000, as already mentioned, we did not get the funds set by law at 600 million because the then Minister Dr. Zagožen refused to recognise these funds. Only with the reoccupation of the ruling coalition or the then LDS and so on, is [[...]] [[A group in the background.]] until this law is amended. [[...]] Thus, it can be noted that the registered unemployment rate also came from 17.9 to 16.1. At that time, to say the funds were provided under your law, thanks to you, only 2 billion 500 SIT, or a billion 800. Divide it into 6 municipalities, 300 million will come, which means, of course, that in three years, if only those funds were available, about 18 jobs could be provided. But intelligence, knowledge, management is present in Zasavje. Therefore, we firmly believe that in the area of regional policy, which is being pursued, we will also expect a new law on coherent regional development to achieve what we could if you did not do what you did at the time. And thank you very much for this kindness of yours at the time, so of course you cannot expect anyone living in this part of Slovenia to have any confidence in any legal act you would suggest with any fair purpose in the State Assembly for Admission. As I come from this environment, of course I will be very happy to press the button, which means that I will oppose the proposal to adopt such a law as you have proposed because it has no serious intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Please, it's Friday. It's 5:00 p.m. to focus on work. Voice explanation, Mr. Schvagan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course I'd like to say hello first. A lot of questions about where this mountain octopus is. Yesterday I forgot to point out that this is in democracy, for information. Second. I will not support this law, even though I would sometimes like to support the law coming from the left hand side, but there is a lot of demagogies in this law. If I tell you or this invitation you got to come to Zagorje, that no money was made out of, I'll only tell you three spindle zones, 12 hectares municipally equipped. As mayor, I am pleased to have been able to open up a company two years ago with 130 new jobs. Last week we opened a factory with 100 new jobs, and on Tuesday we have a discussion where we talk about more than 100 jobs in Zagorje and Zasavje. As Mr. Kelemina said, "This marriage is good for Zasavje, the best." If I supported that, I'd say again, "Words want privilege, they want the greatest resources." In these days there is much debate that the most beautiful word is spoken in Slovenia, "It is nice to be a citizen and a citizen of Zagorje municipality" because there is milk and honey flowing there because there is a lot of money. Life in Zasavje is difficult, there are many people who are having a hard time living from day to day, but I can say that this money is under control, but of course we are glad that everyone and this meeting is even more so, they want to live in the Zagorje Congregation and also in our congregation. Whoever wants from you can also get a suitable location here, which will also be suitable for your life and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Gračner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u221	As I said before, I will not support the law, even though it has a very shiny name or such a very appealing name, but I would benefit as much as if we passed a law on the abolition of all taxes. Look, we need to look at the fact. Even if, as it was said, this marriage would be very good for Zasavje, it is not true. This law of 15 February 2000 will not benefit us, since 21.7. 2000 passed the Act on the closure of the Trbovlje mine - Hrastnik and the development restructuring of the region, which has these development funds defined and implemented. And of course, right now, all colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, New Slovenia and others will have or that we will all have the opportunity to show in the near future how it is for Zasavje, how we would like to help him, when we adopt amendments to the law on the closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine, changes in this sense, because the 2000 law foresees the closure of the mine or the cessation of production in 2007, and according to the new proposal of the Change Act, the mine is expected to produce coal until 2009, so for two years ahead, so that we can significantly improve the social and social picture. Plus, the law is good for both the country and the people in this region. I ask you now that you will then, I will remind you of this, really show your willingness to help Zasav.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, an explanation of the voice. Then there's Mr. Vizjak, Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u223	Thank you very much. If I could, I would say on behalf of the parliamentary group that we would support this law. First, I would answer Mr Grošl. Our fellow Member, Podobnik, would probably tell you that this is not the way to speak in Parliament, but because you have the right. I would say that Slovenia is not only Zasavje. If you think some people just need to help Zasavje, then you're wrong. Slovenia is much more. In the part where I come from, for example, I or my colleague Juban know other problems that are just as big. As far as unemployment is concerned, in the law on coherent regional development submitted by the government and discussed, the data is that unemployment in Pomurje and Podravje is more than 20%, 20.6%. This is where we got all the other information on the table today. You don't know who I'm supposed to trust. What criteria do you collect them? The problems of unemployment in Haloz, Slovenski Gorica and Pomurje are major. People are leaving this part of Slovenia because they do not find a job. If we do not make a law here that will bring more development and incentives to these areas, then we can talk quickly or we can talk about Slovenia at two speeds today. Thus, the central part of Slovenia, where capital, cadre and everything that belongs here is concentrated, and the marginal part, forgotten by the National Assembly, from the government and from all, in fact, which is far behind all. As for some of our colleagues' statements about how they care for their areas, perhaps through some kind of government alliance, say Mr Švagan, I just congratulate him, we just can't talk here just about some individual municipalities. Here it is necessary to have before us that we are a Parliament and that the Chamber is a representative of all of Slovenia. For all of Slovenia it is necessary to seek, but not only to look for some opportunities and some lobbying for certain areas, this is not the real work of the Member. If we develop Slovenia in this way, these developmental differences will be increasingly, not always, smaller. We do not claim that this law, which we have before us today, is the best solution because we should have considered it long ago, but it is an opportunity and an opportunity to confirm it as such, to upgrade it with amendments and to adopt a law that is absolutely necessary in order to reduce these differences so that they do not increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support this marriage. In particular, because I see that one welcome novelty, unfortunately the news, although it is a few years old, in finding solutions how to reduce regional disparities in the level of unemployment. Unfortunately, the government has failed to pass this mandate, but it has not found a solution. But I'm going to give the numbers that come from the government's analysis, and even though I don't believe these numbers, I don't believe them because I think they're even worse, but I'm going to tell you from the numbers how regional unemployment differences have risen, say, in four typical regions or three. Zasavje, in 1999, there was a 7.7% difference between the central Slovenian and the Sava region, in 2003 8.3% difference. For Posavje, 6.2% of the difference between the central Slovenian and the Posavje region was made in 1999 and 6.9% in 2003. The difference between the central Slovenian and the Pomeranian region in 1999 was 7.6%, in 2003 9.7%. During this period, the well-respected government has increased regional differences. From your data, from your tables, which you have given to explain that you do not support this law, this is evident. Something has to be done, for God's sake! Here's the deal. You're opposed to him. Suggest a better one! Propose a solution! The action programmes, or all the measures you state, are welcome, I don't say. In the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, we have proposed another form of reducing differences. This is that tax reliefs for investment in these regions, which are affected by an average unemployment rate, are being reduced. That wasn't right for the government either. Please suggest, and not just say that our proposal is bad!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I will support the law, especially because this law, however we look at who the proposer is, offers some straightforward solutions for investors. Whether we admit it or not, the fact is that it is very reasonable to use the approach in some governmental thinking. The law won't be adopted. We do not need to have any resentment and jealousy.The fact is that it is a natural contribution that encourages ambitious and courageous investors on this basis. And it is a shame, then, if we develop the thesis on this basis, because we are the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as if only one environment is truly poor. I am very proud and happy when I come to Zagorje because I see the city living. The city develops with some positive energy as little as any. And it's a shame to say that everything sucks out there in Zasavje. And I would be glad to see that this is how the mustache congregations, as well as the halos, would develop. And that's why I'm saying there's nothing wrong with having a discussion. However, I know that in this law there are elements that will not be bad if the government uses them or the Ministry of Field and will complete them and modify them, it will be positive for the purpose of this law that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possoncheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I felt very, very uncomfortable here today. What colleagues said about Prekmur and the Prekmursk municipalities is absolutely true. And we can't see from this bench in a mountain village where unemployment can't be measured at all, because they have, what I know, two, three hectares of land, and they don't even look for a job, because there's no business there, and actually there's no human worth living for what they live. And if we were talking about this, not only was I uncomfortable, I'd say I was ashamed, but I think someone else would need to feel that way more. We've been in the pilot's field. It hasn't changed that much. We have the Ministry of Regional Development, not a centimeter has come near and has not taken care of that area. I'll support the law. Not because it won't work, but to admit that they had good intentions and that they wanted to do something. It's not like we can go by so non-chalantly, and it's certain, we can vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal for an increase in employment in municipalities with a higher average unemployment, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is the first draft of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on audit. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text first to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the bill. May I have Dr. Andre Bajuk's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, especially those who insist. A few explanations regarding this proposal for a law on auditing. Amendments and additions to the auditing law were tabled as drafts immediately after the adoption of the current auditing law, which was dealt with only in third reading by this national assembly in this reference. The Third Treatment Audit Law was first drafted by the government I led in 2000. Your great coalition is the first draft of the third-reading law to withdraw and present its solutions, which we can call solutions in favour of the large capital of the transition period. Because small shareholders have many obstacles to the exercise of their rights in this law, which has been adopted in this National Assembly and is now in force. It was not expected, therefore, that this ruling coalition would define itself differently in relation to those matters that we have submitted with the current amendments and amendments to the law. This proposal for amendments to the law on auditing has already undergone the first hearing of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy following the old Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There, the audit profession, or its representatives of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, was also regretting its negative opinion on the proposed changes to the government. As the rejection of the proposed solutions was by no means substantiated, only a so-called nomotechnical note was justified, the Committee concluded that a public presentation of the opinions should be made in the proposal for amendments and additions. As a proposal for a public presentation of the opinions, I have also provided the Chair of the Committee with an expert text to refer to this public presentation, both on individual subjects and on the objectives of their consideration. As Members, I have already called forward for a public presentation of the opinions of individual experts to identify the specific sets of issues, or solutions, which I thought at the time, as I did today, that they are not well regulated in the law in force, in view of the solutions in the developed countries at that time. First time. The current law on auditing does not, in fact, follow all the objectives of the so-called Eighth Guideline of the European Union of 1884, which has so far been regulated in very principle. Another time. The current law on auditing has not followed or followed the best practice of this regime in some other countries, in particular Anglo-Saxon, United Kingdom and the United States. Third time. To date, the law on auditing does not take into account the recommendations issued at that time to ensure the quality of the statutory audit or the minimum requirements adopted by the European Commission. Following the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, the ruling coalition has forgotten this bill. The public presentation of the opinions was not organised. From then on, from 2001 to now, the peer review team, due to the well-known exposed audit scandals, first in the United States, has undergone a number of significant changes in the direction of the objectives of greater public control over the functioning of the audit profession. Probably not all members of the National Assembly have been able to share information about the United States' audit scandals, where it is in the country, this is the famous Enron thing, which is in a country where there was already legal regulation and public oversight of audit companies and auditors at a much higher level than we have today in Slovenia, at three levels or three degrees. They're already judging the auditors from the scandals. In the United States of America, even stricter regulation has been adopted. The revision scandals were also revealed in Europe, Parmalat, and also in the Netherlands. So also in the European Union. As a result of these scandals already mentioned, the European Union has found that the eighth guideline is flawed and that its additional recommendations to Member States for better control of the audit profession will not be sufficient. The European Union has thus launched activities to prepare a new European directive already sent by the European Union Commission to the European Parliament and the Council of Europe in March this year. Let me just mention that we, too, have had an audit scandal with regard to the SIB in our situation, but unfortunately, without consequences. Until now. Optimism still exists, but more than that, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. The amendments and additions to the current revision law relate to the following content sets. Firstly, ensure the independence of the audit. The law should make it possible to implement the principle of independence of audit, which is the principle of the eighth Guideline of the European Union, so to speak, to prevent capital or other financial and material independence of the audit firm and the authorised auditors from auditing the company. This is not enough in our current law. Therefore, in this proposal, we delete provisions defining the concepts of investment and qualifying shares which, according to most of this Parliament, are still intended to ensure independence between the audit company and the audited company. It's unacceptable to us. Another time. We propose changes to the appointment of the bodies of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. In particular, we propose to limit the appointment of the members of the bodies to two consecutive terms of office, because it is not hygienic that one and the other are always able to carry out these operations, especially because it is an institution which has at least public powers in this area without public control. We also propose definitions regarding the type of supervision of audit firms and auditors and the definition of the responsibility of individual audit bodies of the Slovenian Institute for the conduct of a specific administrative procedure in audit control. For the time being, the Slovenian Institute has two forms of supervision under the law, namely residence or cecho control over the quality of the audit work and public administration, which may result in administrative responsibility, including withdrawal of the licence, authorizations for the authorised auditor and so on. The amendments we are proposing would only define themselves as the first form, so to speak, monitoring that allows independent supervision, and not for the "PR Review" or this cetro approach that is still available in our legislation. Fourth time. We propose amendments to regulate the relations between the National Assembly and the Slovenian Institute for Audit. The first law on the revision laid down that the National Assembly gave its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute, which was logical, since the Statute also further regulated the exercise of public powers. The current Act of Consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute no longer provides. We therefore propose to maintain the issue of consent to the statute of the Slovenian Institute, as already established in the previous law. Fifth. We propose to amend the definition of criteria on the frequency of supervision of individual audit firms or auditors. We propose that the Slovenian Institute of Audit limit discretion on the frequency of the selection of individual audit companies and auditors. That's unacceptable. Six. We propose extending the powers of the Slovenian Institute of Audit to develop accounting and revise the public sector. These proposals, which we have already drawn up in the summer of 2000, and then have also been included as amendments that have not been adopted in the law on auditing that is now in force and are finally the basis for this proposal for the law that we are considering today, have been prepared on the basis of guidelines issued by the European Commission on the basis of quality assurance of auditing already in 2001. So they are going in the right direction, but they are not in line with the very strict criteria that the European Commission has now formulated in the new directive, which has been under consideration in the European Parliament since March 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u232	Thank you very much, colleague of Dr. Andrey Bayuk. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members with a first-signed colleague of mags are members. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. Does the representative of the government want a word before I give to the parliamentary groups? Mr Kebrich gave up presenting the position of the DeSUS Group. Does Dr. Andrey Bajuk want to re-enact now? Please, this time on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. After him, buddy Christmas? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposed amendments to the auditing law were intended to provide for legal arrangements to ensure the independence of authorised auditors and audit firms from audited companies and other persons on the basis of financial or capital ties, as well as the links between the persons of administrations, supervisory boards and economic companies and audit companies. In short, provide legislation that will prevent auditing in cases of connected persons. The first law on auditing, written at least by experts, under the guidance of the distinguished and deserving Professor Dr Ivan Turk, provides this independence and thus ensures the objectives of the so-called Eighth Directive of the European Union. This second law, adopted in 2001, in this reference, which is now in force, has adapted to our assessment of the transitional interests and has moved away from the objectives of the Eighth Guideline adopted in 1984 and, above all, from the good practice of the developed countries. It should be pointed out that, at least in the view of the small shareholders, the audit profession was not the most successful in monitoring the practical work of auditors and audit houses, or more specifically said, it was not strong enough. She was able to provide some internal reminders within the framework of state control. Their number has increased in individual audit firms and auditors, and the state-of-the-art quality assurance control of the audit work has not been successful or respected. Therefore, the Slovenian Institute for Audit should sometimes take public action. But he found a Solomonic solution. In 1999-2000 it was found that, on the basis of the opinion of certain legal experts of public measures under control, the Institute could not express itself. It informed this State assembly in its annual report on its work because the specific administrative control procedure was not prescribed in the auditing law. This procedure was regulated by the Slovenian Institute in accordance with the powers of the auditing law in its own rules on the exercise of control, which it adopted on its own. It is worth noting, however, that even today, the new Administrative Procedure Act states that a body which receives public powers can also issue sub-legislative acts. Therefore, according to other or non-governmental legal experts, the Slovenian Institute of Audit also had all the powers under the first auditing law to exercise more effective or public control over audit firms and authorised auditors. Now this procedure has been prescribed since 2001 in the law on auditing, but it is not appropriate compared to the arrangements that we are supposed to set for us. Like in the United Kingdom. And inappropriate, as I will point out below, in line with the new European Commission's guidance. The biggest disadvantage of the auditing law is that there is no public oversight of the Slovenian audit institute as a private housing organisation. In 2000, the Commission of the European Union proposed the provision of such public oversight in a special document called the Quality Assurance Recommendation for statutory audits. And on the basis of this document, we have drawn up our proposal. The Commission has approached the preparation of a new directive on the basis of all these scandals and the problems that have arisen in this area and has undertaken the preparation of a new directive on the uniform regulation of statutory audit in EU Member States. In preparation for this, it has adopted a series of documents that are available to all interested in this on their websites. Now the proposed directive, which was sent to the European Parliament on 24 March and the European Council is likely to be adopted and will probably not be amended, at least not in the direction of greater liberalisation. If anything, it may become more acute than it has been suggested so far. This is why we would expect the government to tell us today that it is already preparing changes and additions to legislation under this directive, but based on the experience we have in this national assembly, I do not think that this would be a mediocre expectation. We have examined the proposal for a directive and found that it will require even more radical and rigorous interventions in the regulation of this area than we have proposed in 2001, with amendments and additions to this law. We are convinced that our proposal was still justified at the time, because we have proposed substantive changes of this kind, which are now required in a much sharper form by the European Union guidelines. And what are the main provisions of the proposed European Union guidelines relating to the content or arrangements, which amendments and additions are proposed? Firstly, safeguard the independence of the auditor or audit firm. Article 23 of this Guideline states: Member States must ensure that when the statutory audit, auditor or audit firm is carried out, they are independent of the audit specimen and are in no way involved in the management decisions of the audited specimen. The statutory auditor or audit firm shall not carry out statutory audits where the audited company is in any financial, business or employment relationship, including the provision of additional audit services, so that the independence of the auditor or the audit firm may be compromised. So a completely different approach as it was enacted in the current law on auditing in Slovenia. Article 24 of this Directive: Member States must ensure that owners or shareholders of audit firms, as well as members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies of such firms or associated companies, do not intervene in the implementation of the statutory audit in any way which would jeopardise the independence and impartiality of the auditor carrying out the statutory audit on behalf of the audit firm. On the other hand, we have a chapter on the supervision of auditors and audit firms. The new directive, which is now under consideration in the European Parliament, and we are already members of the European Union, requires two or three types or levels of supervision of auditors and audit firms. And that is also a very important change. Firstly, the quality assurance system for audit work, auditors and audit firms, and this is Article 29 of this Directive. "Member States" - I now read Article 29 - "have to ensure that all statutory auditors and audit firms are subject to a quality assurance system that meets at least the following criteria". And there's ten of them. The second paragraph, however, states that the Commission may authorise, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 49(2), the implementation of quality assurance measures. Therefore, very strict and clearly defined criteria, what and how to ensure the quality of the functioning of audit companies and auditors in this area, which in some sense has only left our law to the ceto approach, to review itself without the institution, as one with all these public powers, being subject to any public control. Secondly, the system of investigation and sanctioning. This is very important in our case, in the case of Slovenia. This is Article 30 of this Directive. Member States must ensure an effective system of investigation and sanctions for the detection, punishment and prevention of improper implementation of the statutory audit. Without a prejudiced regime of the Member States in the civil law field, Member States must ensure effective proportionate administrative and criminal sanctions when legal audits are not carried out as regards auditors and audit firms in accordance with this Directive. Member States must ensure that any measure or sanction imposed on auditors and audit firms is properly disclosed to the public. This is not what our legislation requires, and this is also a very important difference that will have to be included in our legislation. Thirdly, the system or principles of public oversight. That's Article 31. Member States should organise an effective system of public oversight of auditors and audit firms in accordance with the principles laid down in Articles of this Directive. This is the perfect novelty for our legislation. All auditors and all audit firms must be subject to public scrutiny. Everyone, all the auditors and all the companies. The public oversight system must be managed by those who do not operate in audit practice. And that's also new, and this news is coming now. This is a new trend in the field of this legislation, that not all of this is closed and only entrusted to so-called professions to review themselves. And that's why it's so important for the third paragraph. The public oversight system must be managed by those who do not operate in audit practice from non-practices and are well educated in the area relevant to statutory audit. However, Member States may allow a minority of practitioners to be involved in the implementation of the public oversight system. Persons involved in public oversight must be brought together after an independent and transparent appointment process. This will be for this national assembly and for this government structure in Slovenia at all. Well, and so on and so forth. And what else is our understanding of these guidelines for the time being. That the position of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, following a new regime, which we will also have to implement, will change substantially. The Institute will be able to provide a system for ensuring the quality of the work of auditors and audit firms in the form of independent supervision. This is only in the form of so-called monitoring, which means that the so-called housing or cesovo quality review of work will no longer be possible. In carrying out this task, the Slovenian Institute of Audit will also be subject to public oversight by a special state authority or so-called "public overside" in English. Quality assurance reviews will have to be carried out at least every six years. Even more stringent will be the regulation in this area when auditors or audit firms revise annual accounts or consolidated statements of specimens in the public interest. In these cases, quality assurance reviews will have to be carried out every three years for auditors and audit firms. On the basis of the provisions of this Guideline, the Slovenian Institute will not be able to carry out the tasks falling within the system of investigation and sanctioning, thus having such public powers. The guidelines leave this field of regulation to the legal regime in the Member State. In Slovenia it would certainly be necessary to re-organise the system of civil and criminal sanctioning of auditors and audit companies. However, public oversight of the functioning of auditors and audit firms will be the most important contribution to the request for the establishment of a special body, the so-called "public overtime". All auditors and audit firms will be subject to the public oversight of this body. However, auditors working in practice will not be allowed to participate in the performance of the tasks of that body, except that the Member State will only be able to determine the minority participation of practitioners in the exercise of that authority. This body will also have the right to conduct investigations against auditors and audit firms and to take appropriate measures. Member States will also be required to cooperate with each other in the implementation of the public oversight system. Our proposals for amending the law on auditing were fully in line with the direction of development set out in the Directive of the European Union in 2001, provided that it is expected to be adopted in the European Parliament. Nor could they have been different, since they were based on the recommendations of the Commission of the European Union adopted in 2000 in the context of the regulation drawn up by the law. These are reports or recommendations for quality assurance in the statutory audit. Slovenia, as an EU Member State, will have to comply with the guidelines by the end of 2005 at the latest. However, its interest should be - our interest should be to do so as soon as possible, since the supervision of the work of auditors and audit companies is entirely within the competence of the Slovenian Institute of Audit and the exercise of the public powers conferred on the Institute and no one controls. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, of what the Slovenian Institute for Audit or the President of the Audit Board, Mr. Vili Perner, in his opinion on the amendments to the Audit Act, wrote down to this proposal in a preliminary invitation for a public presentation of opinions, which is an integral part of the material for this session, which you can check at Lotus Notes [[Quote]] "We would like to point out that the revision law 1" is, this proposal says, "presents, in the legislative sense, one major achievement also in the European scale. Any excessive reference to EU guidelines or to the legal order of EU members with regard to the regulation of matters of the audit profession is more or less barren, and to a good extent misleading the Slovenian public. Slovenian auditors will also respond to such attempts in the future with all ethical and moral sensitivity and engagement." [[End of quote.]] The Auditor, Mr Willi Perner, and the President of the Audit Board of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, certainly signed or issued positive audit opinions of the SIB, even for 2002, i.e. for the year when the value of the Bank's capital was in fact negative and was therefore covered by the public energy company or city authority in the burden of Ljubljana's citizens. Following the disclosure of the SIB affair, the Slovenian Institute for Auditing was encouraged - not to say that man is only critical, there is also a positive note - and after this affair began in the framework of the supervision carried out by audit companies and auditors, by issuing public reminders, which are also published on the final pages of the Auditor. Let me finish, Mr President, with a conclusion. As a proposal for this law, I will vote that this law, as it is, is no longer the basis for further consideration, because it is imperative that this law be brought into line with the guidelines and directives already under consideration in the European Parliament. However, I would like to add another decision to this by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by 15 June 2004 at the latest to submit to the National Assembly a report on the drafting of amendments to the legislation required by the adoption of that European guidelines. And if you'll excuse me, Mr President, just one more message to all my colleagues and colleagues. I've been briefed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u234	Comrade Bayuk, can we clear one thing up if we get things right? You're suggesting that the law continues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u235	That's what I suggest. And an additional decision to request and ask the government to tell us by 15 July how it feels about this. And that's not, I'd say, a suggestion from the vine. Today we're dealing with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u236	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u237	whether we are talking about one subject which is already the subject of a decision in the European Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u238	Okay. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u239	Dear colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u240	Time, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u241	It is essential that in this Parliament, in the Slovenian National Assembly, we begin the procedure as other colleagues of the European Union do. [[...]] The English Parliament, the United Kingdom Parliament last year [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u242	Time!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u243	In June 2003 - yes, Mr President, I immediately conclude - already in June 2003 I received a message from my government and my government's opinion on the guidelines that were being prepared. [[...]] Since 24 March 2004, this Directive has already been a formal proposal. It is high time that we begin this procedure immediately, because it is very complicated, it will require a lot of changes, even in other laws [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u244	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u245	because we are not exempt from the problems that have also threatened other more developed countries. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u246	Good. Now, if I understand correctly, you are suggesting that we not discuss this law. Does this agree with the State Assembly? So those who are registered for the debate would step down and we can go to the next point. Of course we will vote, but there will be no debate. Do you agree? I mean, no contract. [[...]] Then, of course, I'll call my colleagues and colleagues in the hall and... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u247	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u248	Look, there's a bright spot in every tunnel [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] Please, Comrade Dr. Bajuk. I'll give you this opportunity exceptionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u249	Mr. Chairman. But I'd like you not to forget the additional decision. I know that from a formal point of view and our Rules of Procedure, one conclusion cannot be drawn here. But let's be clear what this is really about. There is no point in debate today about this proposal, which was up-to-date at the time, but only in this sense, if we start now, and the first step is in my assessment, and I have therefore designed such a proposal to have the government report to us by 15 July, like the British Government to the British Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u250	I'll give you my word at the conclusion. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u251	I agree with this proposal, although there have been different ways to do this. But somehow I agree with the need to say what's going on. Given that it is not possible to reach a decision, I propose that what has been said here in public and expected to be ensured by the Government as soon as possible and at such a stage. And if the case is from England, as reported in England, there is no doubt that we would not have done it here. But there are no additional conclusions, so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u252	Yeah. Well, we understand each other. It's a matter of additional conclusions. The government takes note of that. And we're going to vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u253	only on the conclusion yes, no [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u254	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u255	And the government has taken note of this, because there is no way to do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u256	That's it. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u257	And I guarantee that I will prosecute them if anything happens, because I told Mr Bayuk earlier that this is a gesture that I appreciate, of course, but also means that such an agreement must be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u258	Good. Now I don't know if anything good has happened in this session by mistake, but we all consider it a good sign to come forward. Please, colleagues and colleagues, to come to the hall, we must vote. As you can see, Dr. Bajuk, you have a lot of support in the National Assembly. We let you talk over time. In short. I think there's enough of us in the hall to make decisions. The decision I will put to the vote is: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on first reading revision is appropriate for further consideration." Are the voting devices all right? Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now that we have also been joined by other colleagues, as a proposal I will vote against this proposal, because I am sure it is not appropriate. As long as, and that's what you've been told, the one who hasn't followed the debate so far. The fact is that the European Commission has already tabled a concrete directive to be addressed by the European Parliament. That other Member States have been European liaison with us for at least two years now, so far as I have here in my hands, for example, a report by the Special Parliamentary Committee of the British Parliament following this legislative procedure, if you want to, in common, in the European Parliament and already have an opinion from the government, your own government, what the government meant by what the European Commission has proposed. What I have asked and I know that it is not envisaged in our Rules of Procedure, inter alia, because when we adopted the Rules of Procedure in 2001, we may not have foreseen today that we will be members of the European Union, that our Government should be required or at least politely recommended, we do not formally have any decision to make by 15 July to communicate to us its position on this Directive, which is already under consideration since 24 March in the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u260	Good. Anyone else would like to explain their vote, or we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Can we make a decision? Is there no objection? We're voting. 56 present, 1 in 47 versus. [[One vote in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The decision is not adopted and the point is closed. Moving on, I've already seen the Minister of Education in the Chamber, so there are no reservations to that with debate on 7. Agenda items - The first draft of the Act on the Subvention of the Food of Djaków and Wajenci would not begin. It's time to discuss it in two hours. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group with a first-signed colleague, Tank. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members with their first-signed colleague, Tsukjati, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I don't see Comrade Tank now. Will you, buddy Tucky? All right, then, on behalf of the proposers, a colleague of Franz Cukjat will be speaking. Ten minutes, colleague Tsukati, for a further explanation of the proposal and then one in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, the problem of eating schoolchildren is old, and it is worthy of our attention. But as the new school year approaches, it is good before, not just before the new school year begins, but in due time, to talk about these problems and try to solve them. This time we touch high school students and apprentices. In fact, children in kindergartens have a well-groomed diet and children in primary schools also have an orderly diet. Students have vouchers, and this system really helps them have their diet. The Labour Relations Act ensures that all workers are provided with regular meals during their work, a warm meal within eight hours, if longer, and two meals during their work. I think that this is very important for human health, for its productivity, for its success, for its well-being; only in high school students have we forgotten this duty. Research by the Institute for Health Protection shows that these schoolchildren are the most vulnerable in terms of nutrition. Overall, the results showed that only 40% of schoolchildren regularly eat breakfast in secondary school only 30% of their breakfast. And of course, when they come to school, then their working hours, their working days last not only six hours, not only eight hours, but increasingly 10 hours. And if we take into account those who drive from the periphery and lose two or three hours to transport, then it is not rare days when even twelve hours from home without a warm meal. Let us not forget that these are the most sensitive years in which it grows not only physically but also mentally and also creates eating habits, the attitude towards nutrition, the attitude towards social life, and we must also be aware that regular diet not only allows better life, increased creativity during schooling, easier follow-up to school demands, but also mental well-being, and thus not this unregulated diet the last reason for all studies to identify student fatigue, fatigue, increased depression, not to mention restlessness, sleep disturbances, psychosomatic problems growing from year to year. We believe that this generation, which is somehow forgotten in this sense, should be slightly more taken care of by the state. With regard to our initiative, the Ministry of Education has replied, as proposed, that the matter is already resolved, namely, a regulation has already been adopted to subsidise the school diet of pupils and apprentices in secondary schools. And the minister says that the 2004 budget provides 900 million tolls for this purpose, which is 51% more than in previous years. 900 million for 100,000 students and apprentices means 9,000 tolerans per year per student or 900 tolars per month, for a school month without holidays, for a student, or 40 tolars per day. This, of course, is not serious support, this is not a serious approach. With 40 tolars, he can't even buy a bun. This is said to be the first approach to provide schoolchildren with free schooling with adequate support for finding a solution to their diet. However, the second problem that the bill seeks to solve is that the premises are also regulated and that access to food is regulated. So, not only financial support, but also accessibility. Not only kindergartens, but also primary schools and labour organisations, companies are obliged to provide this to workers. That's right. And we have a diet in kindergartens, we have a menu in primary schools, we have a menu in work organizations, we have it in the National Assembly, and that's right. It must also be available in space. Since, if not, and especially in secondary schools, it is necessary to ensure spatial access to meals. This would ensure not only less tiredness and depression, but also less of the running of children during a big break, because in fact they are destroyed by nearby buffets, where all sorts happen, even dealers come into their own account and so on. In any case, this disorder is also shown by the fact that there are no suitable spaces. I think that the law that we are proposing would also require schools to either prepare the appropriate premises themselves or to agree, in accordance with the financial means that the law is intended to provide, or agree contractually, with a nearby provider of such food, in order to provide adequate premises. We think it's a smart marriage. In view of the comments we have already received at the time of the drafting of the law, it is not until the 2005/2006 school year that the law is in force. That is what we believe, but it is enough time for all the details to be regulated and for the whole system to be adapted to address this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want a word? Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President! In this year's debate, the government has taken a step forward in providing nutrition in secondary schools and higher education. This step is, after years, around 1994-1995, when we seriously increased funding for the first time, co-financing food for high school students is far greater. As Mr Cukjat has already said, we have increased by 51% the means of nutrition in secondary schools already this year. In autumn, 30% of students and students will receive these subsidies, amounting to 160 tolars a day. As we talk about nutrition, we know that it would be best if we had the resources instead of billions of dollars, if I rounded up a little bit, to devote 10 billion dollars to this area. This is the difference between the system that we currently have and the system that is envisaged here. We are aware that the issue of nutrition is not the only issue, nor is it the only issue in education that requires additional resources. We will talk briefly here about whether there should be a contribution of a student, a student or not for a master's degree. Even then, we will talk about tens of billions of tolars of differences, and if we take numbers seriously, then we know that it is simply not possible to ensure everything. We have opted for a social approach, an approach whereby those who are most needed, that is, 30% of the population at this point, increase food resources. The first step should be, in my opinion, and I hope that the government will be able to do so after the elections in order to get you an opportunity to have a warm meal. Not that all, including those who can easily afford to pay this meal on their own, would receive funds, while the funds for the most socially weak in a host of areas would run out. Because we believe that the social approach to the means available to us is more appropriate, we remain in the mechanism we have. And in doing so, we build capacity at all secondary schools that are being renovated and allow access to food. Since there is currently no means for such a tenfold increase and because a system is set up that allows without specific law to increase funds and thus the availability of food within secondary schools, we do not believe that this law is necessary and that the government does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u264	We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Cheligo will present his position, will you be just from there or? As you wish, Comrade Cheligoy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, coworkers, colleagues, colleagues! We know that nutrition, even during such a sensitive period as puberty and adolescence, is a very important factor in human development. It is the foundation of a healthy life, both physical and mental. In addition, appropriate eating habits during adulthood can provide a good basis for further life. Various laws, such as the Schools Act or the Vocational Vocational Education Act, as well as the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, oblige the State to organise at least one meal a day during school hours. In high schools, meals can be obtained, and some schools organize lunches in one way or another. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that everyone needs to be given the opportunity to eat and not only do we see no reason why students should be in a different position than other schoolchildren. We also advocate food subsidies for all students, but on the basis of distribution into social groups, so that the socially disadvantaged receive more, and in addition in a way that the limit between those receiving higher or lower subsidies would not be too high and too severe. We also advocate the possibility that higher subsidies will be granted to students who travel to schools from remote places. The bill we are considering seeks to introduce food subsidies for pupils and apprentices in a similar way as food is subsidised to the student population. The problem that could arise with such a proposed method of subsidising the student’s diet is that the money given to the student for the purchase of the vouchers would be spent for other purposes. By no means do we want to say that adolescents are not mature enough, but we know from experience and narratives that a lot of student money is spent on a lot of other things, coffee at best, or perhaps something more harmful in a worse case. But little boys like that still don't eat. In addition, schooling in secondary schools does not take place throughout the day and at longer intervals, students also have shorter rest periods, so they usually eat a meal when they come home. Most students are likely still cared for by their parents, by their parents, or by other relatives, despite the fact that the faster pace of life forces all of us to think seriously about it. Therefore, consideration should be given to how best to organise food for this population. The fact that at least 30% of secondary schools will provide subsidised food for schools in special needs education institutions, at least 15% of pupils and apprentices for lower and secondary vocational education, while at least 10% of secondary schools will be subsidised for other schools, is still a bit modest in the opinion of the DeSUS Group. In our parliamentary group, we have always advocated social rights and remedies for all generations, but, as already mentioned, all aspects of possible food subsidies should be carefully considered for all students. We consider the bill tabled by fellow Member Jožef Tanko in the DeSUS Group to be well-intentioned, but not well thought out enough and disregarding some relevant facts, so we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group and then her colleague Podobnik. First, my colleague Anna Maria Tisovic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on subsidising the nutrition of pupils and apprentices at first reading. Respectable. Taking care of the health of young people must be one of the priorities of each society as well as ours. Health is an optimally good psychophysical feeling that a person, and especially a youth, psychophysically good, must have an orderly living environment, including regular, sufficient, particularly healthy diet. A youth who goes from home to school all the time, especially if he is a driver, but these, as we know, are quite a percentage between apprentices and students, and then only in the middle of the afternoon returns home, has little chance of proper nutrition. Students and apprentices are underachieved by healthy daily meals. All of this is shown by the fact that adolescents are too quickly overworked and have too little youthful energy needed for healthy physical development and a greater ability to learn and work. These consequences are also pointed out by health workers who deal with the health problem of growing young people. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore believe that it is high time that the law also regulates food subsidies for students and apprentices in the same way that food subsidies for students are already regulated in a similar way. As you know, in Slovenia we are already facing a decline in births, so the number of young people is decreasing, so it is essential that society devotes all its attention to these young people to having good conditions for their psychophysical development. Of course, someone will report that the financial implications of this law will be considerable, but I would like to warn you that any prevention is cheaper than the curative. Surely, with proper and healthy diet, these adolescents will grow into healthier and more resilient adults than if we allow them to develop poor eating habits and unhealthy lifestyles during the development period. We must consider all of this when adopting this law, which is designed to ensure that our society takes care of apprentices and students in this way. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this bill is a good basis for solving this problem in the Republic of Slovenia, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u268	It's your turn now, colleague Janez Podobnik. You will move forward with the position of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. President. I will present very briefly the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In our view, this is a key issue in this law, which is related to financial resources, so it is essentially a political decision whether or not we find the necessary financial means to subsidise the student diet. Some of the rare research done in Slovenia is mainly regional and has shown that the dietary habits of Slovenian students are relatively poor. In Ljubljana, for example, two thirds of secondary schools currently do not provide a warm diet, and professional results have repeatedly stressed that healthy and adequate nutrition is essential in maintaining the health of students and in ensuring adequate growth and development. A difficult schedule without adequate nutrition also leads to fatigue and, finally, to a lack of learning. On the other hand, because of a different way of life, parents are no longer able to take care of their children on a regular basis because of a long worker. The school has taken over a certain proportion of the role of parents in education and education, and it is here before a difficult task to provide in particular other aspects of quality time spent in educational institutions. And one of these aspects is nutrition. In order to acquire healthy eating habits and maintain health for a further working life, healthy nutrition in youth, especially at this stage of youth, is of paramount importance. An effective solution that is available is already tested, we all know it, it is among the student population and has proved to be good, it is a food subsidy where resources are spent deliberately and are also, hopefully, well controlled. In the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that such a way of subsidising food is also suitable for students, especially for those who drive in secondary schools. As a result of all of this, we will also support the subsidisation of the student diet, as proposed by the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u270	Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u271	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! After considering the proposal for a law on subsidising the diet of pupils and apprentices of the first-signed Member Jože Tanka in the LDS Club of Members, we believe that this bill does not offer better solutions than could be seen in the bill tabled by Mr Jože Tanko in 2003 and discussed at the 30th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Following the discussion and on the basis of the arguments presented, the National Assembly rejected the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the student nutrition subsidy law was a suitable basis for further consideration. If I freshen up briefly, in the position of the LDS Club, we have stressed that the introduction of the same system of subsidised nutrition in apprentices and students as students do is not the best solution and that the proposal for a law is incomplete and incomplete. At the LDS, we believe that the introduction of a system similar to that of students is not the best solution. Also due to spatial opportunities of secondary schools, questions of organisation of teaching, the fact that most students are staying at home where they have food organised within the family, as well as questions about possible locations and the content of the offer of nutrition for potential concessionaires. The proposed legal solutions of Member Jožet Tanka are questionable, as food providers should be close to the school, as well as the provisions that schools are obliged to provide adequate food areas by the beginning of the 2005/2006 school year are incomplete. However, the incompleteness of the bill can also be seen in the segregated explanations of the articles. The bill therefore provides for a simple solution by providing for the implementation of the law of 10 billion budgetary resources, in which the proposer well knows that they are not provided in the 2004 and 2005 state budget. In the LDS Club, we see in this intention that the opposition, at first sight with the laws they like, which do not have produced objectives, methodologies and procedures, wants to create an impression in the public that certain problems can be solved quickly and effectively without in-depth analyses and comprehensive solutions. We are aware that the problem itself exists, but it needs to be addressed in an integrated manner, which has been done by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for many years, and additional resources have been provided through the laws of so-called school tolerants, which have also been endorsed by the National Assembly. An additional reason for rejecting the bill is that, on the basis of professional grounds, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has adopted a regulation on the subsidisation of school nutrition for pupils and apprentices in secondary schools, which regulates the provision of State budget resources by establishing criteria, methodology and procedure for the allocation of funds to schools and criteria, in particular social ones, and the procedure for determining eligibility for subsidisation of school meals to pupils and apprentices. In this regard, it should be emphasized that, according to this Regulation, a total of 51% of the increased appropriations in respect of payments in 2003 are provided in the 2004 budget. However, increased funding is also provided for 2005. In view of the fact that we have already discussed the almost identical proposal and also rejected it on the basis of arguments, we will also act on this proposal in the LDS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u272	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, Master Majda Potrat will now present the position of this Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u273	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members and Fellow Members. In a relatively short period of time, we are discussing the subsidised diet again. I must reiterate that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are aware of the importance of healthy nutrition for the healthy development and secure future of the young generation. The proposed law on the subsidisation of the diet of pupils and apprentices only changes the student diet law, but offers a solution that is not appropriate for this population. This was also the view of the Ombudsman because, in contrast to the age difference and eating habits of young people, we cannot overlook in general a host of organizational barriers related to exchange education, spatial opportunities for organised nutrition, a large number of those still living at home and a wider network of schools. The proposed law is intended to ensure that all students and apprentices are entitled to one subsidised meal or lunch per day and that the introduction of a system similar to that of students is the best solution in terms of the spatial and other options available to secondary schools. At the same time, it should be asked whether even for students the existing solution is optimal, especially if, for various reasons, this system is sometimes not the best for them in all respects. The draft law is justified by the presentation of the regulation in other countries. It is, of course, important to note that it has been used once and that all the comments made about it can only be repeated. From the table showing solutions in some European countries, it seems that all European countries have regulated subsidies for secondary education, but they do have a differentiated approach. The proposal is still the closest of Finland and Sweden, and most often in other countries they decide to support when it comes to taking into account the social criteria and criteria for individual learning performance. There is a clear picture of how this issue is regulated by the diversity of the school system, since the table combines lower and higher secondary levels, which means that comparisons are transferable to primary and secondary schools in our country. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the position of the Government based on the upgrading of the existing system governing the nutrition of pupils and apprentices with a specific rule. This is based on professional grounds. The adopted Regulation regulates the provision of funds from the State budget and thus lays down criteria for the methodology and procedure for the allocation of funds to schools and the criteria and procedure for determining eligibility for subsidisation of school meals to pupils and apprentices. Since, for this year's school year, the budget is not intended to subsidise school nutrition at the level proposed by Mr Tanko, the first-signed, with other signatories, because there are therefore no funds in the budget, it is therefore clear from these two reasons that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats is also unable to support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Kolga Barovic, you will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Then we have two more points of view and a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The key question, colleagues and colleagues, which we have raised in the Slovenian National Party, and I am, of course, also for all of us, is whether, with a proposal for a subsidised diet of students and apprentices, we are saving the social category or, as we understand it, the proposaler wants to solve the systemic health and work life of students and apprentices. The facts identified by the Health Care Agency on World Food Day are clear. The eating habits of the students, I usually say, are bad. The absence of students and apprentices from school and their overwork is certainly also due to unhealthy, poor and disorderly diets. And there will be no ambiguity, of course, for such a way is not entirely the fault of the government or the state - it is not. An important approach that we assess in the Slovenian National Party and as a substance is that it is necessary to approach the system’s diet. It's hard to separate social and non-social categories now. I'll be a little more precise than my colleague was before me. For example, Austria and Finland have regulated food subsidies for pupils and apprentices, and I will name all Spain combined - because we have all the Rapporteur and we have read it. Spain has - yes - Austria - yes, in lower secondary schools food is subsidized for all pupils. Well, look, it's a shame to argue about it now. The point is, do we want to set up a healthy life in the country of Slovenia and set up a system whereby or through which students will learn the value of eating and, of course, the system of work while eating properly? But it is true that this cannot be done overnight, and it is true that some countries, as we see in the case of Sweden, are doing it in some other way, with accommodations, because there are students there, I don't know, who have their student homes where this system is arranged. That's right. We have a lot of kids who are seven, eight, nine hours in school, and they're close at home. You could if you wanted to, or you could have shops nearby, or you could have schools organizing them -- I don't know, even, I mean, whatever. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that just as the social element and the element of healthy diet, well-managed diet, some obligation that will be at the level - because I was and respect - Denmark, Sweden, Finland also had Slovenia. Article 4, which reads: "The amount of the subsidy should be at least 75% of the amount of the food regression." It is, of course, likely flexible if this country decides and says, no, we want to have an organized diet for all students and apprentices, everyone has to get used to the fact that healthy nutrition is essential to their work and, of course, to their subsequent lives. It's not going to change that amount. Of course, Article 6 is also flexible, as I heard from the speakers in front of me. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, as I repeat, we or we agree with the systematic regulation of student nutrition. We're in favour of a system of regulation, where we - well, it's our right to think that way - this social note is elsewhere. Of course, this objective can be achieved by regulating the amount of this country's subsidy. According to the data I have, it would cost, say, 10 billion under the proposed law, of course, Article 4 can change and these costs would be, I don't know, 7 billion. The essence, once again, is indicated in the proposal for this law, which is under first reading. And in the Slovenian National Party we will consider it appropriate for further consideration. But we are aware of the great responsibility and the organisation needed to make this habit of healthy diet, the habit of eating, that, of course, also spatially connected - we know what problems almost all in secondary schools, students and apprentices have - that this system of introducing healthy nutrition and the importance of nutrition is also spatially conditioned because, once again, I say, of the very hard and very difficult learning process that I advocate. But, while Mr. Minister and I are working together to create a demanding system with us, we must be aware that this demanding system requires all students and all of them to exert themselves. And this effort, of course, has to be satisfied with some elements, and we could talk about too little physical education and so on - but let's leave it. Therefore, we suggest that, colleagues and colleagues, just consider whether or not we would say that this bill is intended, once again, to systematically regulate all students and apprentices, only possible for further consideration and for further search for some solutions to the system of countries that are now, as we all know, our colleagues in one great country. And I think it would be nice for us to act on something like a system-wide regulated diet if we already want to follow the countries, the colleagues, the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u276	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck. My colleague France Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u277	Thanks again for saying that. My colleague Barovic said very well what was going on. It's not about solving the social problem in the first place, but it's about something else. Research has shown, I repeat, that only a third of the students eat breakfast in the morning or have lunch in the morning. What about the other two thirds? It's a typical case. He gets up in the morning when his parents left for work. Of course, he gets up at the last minute to catch the city bus. It doesn't sing anything, clearly, it doesn't warm anything up. There's no old mom because she's in a home or maybe there's still farmers. And when he comes to school, of course, when he comes, he has nothing. When the break comes, that break goes into the next buffet, the nearest buffet with his colleagues, drinks a bottle of beer, smokes a cigarette, and the thing goes on - back to school. A glass of beer and cigarettes is a typical meal of high school kids. Men, boys. And, of course, there's something else. That's what this is about, gentlemen. At the same time, these students are increasingly burdened by the accumulation of factual knowledge, by catching points, graduation points, less and less exercise, less and less joy to work, less and less joy to life. And a proper diet would be the most profitable investment in Slovenian education. Right now, the most profitable investment. And, of course, first provide the possibility of a warm meal - a possibility, and then subsidize it so that it becomes interesting for high school students to accept it. Some will probably not be able to, although the possibility of a hot meal will be brought on the tray, it will have to be paid, but then of course we will be asking ourselves about social intervention, about subsidies, that everyone will not only be interested in it, but also be able to pay for the meal. But I'm certainly surprised by the different perceptions that this proposal is similar to what you made years ago. And even then you said the same thing, yeah, because it's a good thing, because it's gonna have to be arranged, yeah, we certainly do, we admit, it's gonna take all of that. A systematic approach is being prepared, a study must be done, all things arranged, the matter must be considered comprehensively. And that goes from year to year. And generations go on the same tracks that aren't the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u278	Good. My friend Levich. Peace. There's no controversy in the bench. There's no controversy in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are more aware of the state of nutrition issues of both students and students, and that is why in the past we have paid particular attention to the regulation of student diet, which in this mandate from the National Assembly received its legal basis on the basis of a proposal for a law which was signed by colleague Marko Diaca, and thus a long-term arrangement which means a stable implementation of the subsidised student diet. We are convinced that students today need to be adequately cared for by their parents in terms of their flexibilities, commitment, and, finally, in many day-long school activities, for the benefit of the students and their parents and society as a whole. Therefore, it will not be unnecessary if the re-mentioned fact of the need for legal regulation of student diet has been introduced for a long time, so that we can talk about one of the rarely evolutionaryly designed laws that have also proved to be properly said in scratch or their need for legal regulation has been proven by practice. These facts, if briefly highlighted, were mainly the health status of the student population, the infrastructure established, the established control, the established distribution and general eligibility linked to student status. However, the regulation was further regulated by a regulation on subsidising student nutrition. The law therefore introduced stability and long-term sustainability and once again expressed dissatisfaction with the adoption of this law. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we have also prepared a proposal to subsidise the student diet with its first-signatory colleague Diacia and have therefore obtained co-signatures, which from what we are considering today differs in some conceptual solutions, while at the same time we believe that the most important objective we are likely to pursue is the adoption of a system law to subsidise the diet. If this proposal comes through the first reading, we will try to bring the law's solutions closer to our concept. Let me mention why in the Party of Young Slovenia we insist on the legal regulation of the diet of students, all of which, of course, we also need to incorporate the social component, which is the weakness of this law that we are dealing with today. The health problems, which also occur among the younger people of the Republic of Slovenia, do not distinguish between the socially less and socially weaker segments of the population, so we propose to provide food for all pupils, while allowing financial support to the socially weaker population. Students eat irregular meals, often miss regular meals, and instead serve snacks, often a warm meal only in the evening. The health situation of the younger population is deteriorating, as is confirmed by information on the recruitment system from 1991 to 2003. If at least a part of this trend had been reversed by the regulation of the student diet, we would have done a great deal from a social point of view. Changes in food habits resulting in a better health status of the entire population The proposed system-wide regime for the subsidisation of diaspora diets is indeed increasing budgetary expenditure, but the benefits of this title should also be assessed. [[...]] Finances, which are also the main anti-agreement, are not and should not be the main reason for rejecting the system regime in this area, as only net expenditure should be taken into account. The long-term benefits shown in the budgets of other ministries should also be assessed. During the mid-term, our assessment suggests that the effect of the introduction may even be financially positive. We also point out section 32 of the Law on High Schools and section 59 of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which discuss nutrition in schools, because we believe that the implementation of subsidisation of the student diet must take place in school premises. The summary of the report of the Food Habit of Cell Students, prepared by the Health Care Institute Celje in December 2003, confirms our arguments. We will support the proposal in the Young Slovenia Party. In the event of adoption, we will try to bring it closer to our concept with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u280	We are now going to the general debate of Members and Members. It's a long list, but it's not mandatory. Let's go in one order. My colleague Ana Marija Tisovic, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Brenčič? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Covtic did, didn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Many factors are important for the development of children and adolescents, including nutrition, but the school is not the first to be responsible for this part. Still, he feels responsible, so take care of his diet. Subsidies for children and adolescents in education should be considered in full. I can say with full responsibility that in Slovenia we have been building and upgrading the educational system over the past 13 years for the needs of the students, and we can be proud of it without shame. Throughout Slovenia, new buildings have been built for the purposes of education, schools, kindergartens, sports facilities, housing for students and students in recent years. These facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and textbooks. The Training Fund allows for cheap and, in many cases, even free use of textbooks. There is also a need to mention subsidies for excursions, schools in nature, swimming courses and other forms of optional education, which are increasing from year to year. I will not support the bill on food subsidies for students and apprentices, as we have already rejected almost the same in the National Assembly due to inadequateness. By then, the Ministry of Education had warned that they were preparing changes in favour of food regulation for pupils and apprentices. The Diagnostic Organisation supported the increase in the share of the subsidy to individuals, students and apprentices, and the Ministry also followed. In particular, for primary and secondary school nutrition, the 2004 budget increased and approved an increase of 600 million tolars, bringing from last year's 619 million to 912 million, i.e. good or poor 50% more. In 1992/1993, 18.80% of secondary school students received regressive diets in secondary education and 23% in last year. Of course, we cannot be entirely satisfied with our share, so in the Liberal Democracy Club, we will be personally committed to improving this issue of nutrition for students and apprentices during the course of the educational process. The solution to diet for pupils and apprentices must be systematic, we have already heard that today if we want it to fit and satisfy. I am sure that the Ministry of Education will follow its own vision and will give food such importance that it will, of course, be able to satisfy both pupils and apprentices and, of course, that it will be able to allocate sufficient resources in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u282	I'm a colleague of niggers. There's one mini-conference, or you can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u283	It seems that nutrition is in fact such an important topic that it has occupied us quite a number of times in this national assembly and that we have discussed and discussed this. But I must tell my colleague Tsukjati that the excuses for systemic solutions, the excuses for a series of analyses are not just a trickle, that in fact there is an interdisciplinary commission in the Government of Slovenia that has prepared a draft diet strategy and within this diet strategy is one segment also intended for the nutrition of students; in fact, about all the eating habits of Slovenes, how and how these dietary indications should be changed, what are the causes of the various diseases that are very present in certain age periods. Finally, there is a series of analyses here that also show how, in a way, it also helps or forces children to actually start eating regularly during this period, especially how important it is to start eating their first meal early in the morning. Because to find out what Mr Cukjat also said that only one third of children are in the morning, you know; the morning is a period that the child actually spends before school at home. In what way and how we will influence the child to start eating in the morning, it is difficult with one decree, law and so on. But good, these are now mentioned, and we will not talk about this, because I deeply hope that by the end of this mandate we will have the opportunity to address this integrated diet strategy, which in particular pays much attention to how and how to change the eating habits of Slovenians, which according to the results, even the analyses published in the White Paper, are not the best. And how and how to actually redirect individuals, especially adolescents, to eat more fruit, more vegetables, dairy products and so on. But that's so much. How serious the bill-maker, Mr Tanko, meant by this law, can already say the content of the law itself. For me, the law is a gentle thirsty. And in fact, like my colleague Ferri Horvat said, it's a well-contaminated pre-election stew. For me, this is a very "shoes" soup. Why? Because if we look at it, let's say it's the 10th article that talks about the right places to eat. What are suitable places to eat? There is nothing to say about how they form, how they form, how they are supposed to be norms for these suitable spaces. We know that there are different places in schools; that one are suitable, one is restored, one is not restored, the schools are of a newer type and so on. But that the appropriateness of the premises is not only that they are provided with minimum and specific squares. It is also important that the space is suitable for that period of human consumption, whether they are equipped, whether they have images, whether they have sculptures, how they actually affect digestion, metabolism, the mood of the student. Or a student can actually relax during that period and so on. In short, there are a number of factors that can affect eating and feeling of a student. In terms of in-depth analysis, in-depth consideration, this law does not bring about this. And Mr Cukjat, when he said that this was just one empty excuse, in fact, the law is only confirmation and the fact that it was made superficially and that it was made solely and solely because of the fact that it prepared voters, that on one segment they might look a little more sentimentally at what I know, the fates of their children, children of friends, acquaintances, relatives and so on. I therefore expect that the actual Ministry, together with the Interdisciplinary Commission, will approach this issue and address this issue in an integrated manner, in order to actually tell how, in what way, the organisational measures will support these matters. Because spatial possibilities cannot be resolved overnight and not within nine months, as, for example, Article 10 states until 2005/2006. That's impossible. We know how long it takes to get documentation of all this. It is said that the way of writing such a law has not been conceptually well established from the very beginning. That is why I will not support this law, in particular in anticipation of deeper solutions that are being prepared and some have already been presented in the GLOBE parliamentary group. They were presented by State Secretary Jožica Maucec Zakotnik, and I think they are quite successful extensions for this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u284	Thank you very much. My friend Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! In fact, by introducing this law, the proposer gave an excellent opportunity to discuss some unusual food solution in the Republic of Slovenia. Look, as the proponent said in the introduction, we have this issue solved at the kindergarten level, we have this issue solved at the primary school level, at the university level, why don't we solve this issue at the secondary school level? It is a period when our children are from 14 to 15 years old, to 18 and 19, this is the most sensitive period of growing up, the period of puberty, when different fashion flies affect this population, when most of these children, we know, today under these changed social conditions, do not eat breakfast at home - I don't know, but research is one fact can be another - and the question is why we are not looking for some options to actually solve something that is a problem. This is a problem that is mainly referred to by school doctors, who then receive these children and actually identify the causes of different disease situations, and this has an even greater impact on the subsequent period. If I have correctly understood the Minister, he said in his opening statement that the issue of school nutrition in secondary schools is not the only issue to be resolved. And then he suggested a question of solving it in connection with a master's degree. These are, of course, two completely separate questions. However, it is not possible to mix them and put them in the same basket because they have a completely different meaning and resolve in different ways, and they are finally linked to financial resources. Even if I understood correctly, the minister announced that this issue would be resolved after the elections. So some colleagues from the government coalition say that the proposal - in fact, on all the proposals that we are considering today, you are saying that it is a pre-election exercise, a pre-election gobble. But these dilemmas, these questions will have to be resolved. And if Mr. Minister says that this will be resolved after the elections, then of course he has announced the eminent or made a first-class pre-election move, on the fact that the government, of course, in explaining its opinion, says that for 2004 and 2005, there is no financial means to solve this problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u286	Order! Comrade Jakich, it's your turn. Comrade Jakič, it's your turn right after Comrade Sok. Please, Comrade Sok, now it's you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u287	I'm used to that kind of stuff, so it's right that he'll get his word and then he'll be able to say it. So the government actually increases financial resources for a certain amount, but in nothing or does not fully solve the problem. The problem in this direction is that secondary schools today do not even have technical options. There will therefore be much more to be done here and much more to be done to resolve this issue in the right way. It is not enough for the government to reason in its opinion that most high school children, called students and apprentices, live in their living environment. Today, social conditions are such that even if they live in their living environment, their parents are often busy and unable to provide for them in such a way that they can even control or influence their children’s eating properly and regularly. And here we have to think about it that way. Even with the fact that we have in our country, because of demographic policy, such as that, from year to year, fewer children and that, in the final stage, costs will also begin to decrease slightly for this area, but not to increase, because, of course, there are fewer primary school bondsmen and there are, of course, fewer pupils and apprentices. In New Slovenia, we do not argue that all of these solutions, which are enshrined in this law, are simply feasible, that they are easy to resolve at once, but that we would like the government to take a closer look at this problem, to be more aware of this situation, and that, in fact, in concrete ways, to try to resolve this area, because some proposal simply refuses but does not propose a better solution, of course, Mr Minister, is insufficient. Even the promise to settle this after the elections is too small. So we expect you to tell us what you're going to do today, now, not what you're going to do after the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Now it's your turn, buddy Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues! Of course, it warms me up when someone speaks the facts in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, of course, that there was no increase in funds for 2004 and 2005. 51% of us raise funds on this item and no one can say that the ministry and this government have not done enough for school and school meals. Through the school tolar number 1 we collected 27 billion and the school tolar number 36, while at the school tolar 167 billion and among them, of course, were school meals and free textbooks. What Mr Tanko is proposing - I hope that he is not at lunch right now or he is not interested in his own law - is that he is trying to get things done as students do. This is unacceptable, also evident from the views of the student organisation of Slovenia. And it's on the hands of those who mentioned alcohol among the types of high school students today. With this law, we also try to send 100,000 high school students and apprentices around the capitals, of course, to eat inn and, of course, to get even easier after alcoholic beverages. The system made by the Ministry of Education is, of course, correct. A system to increase funds in a segment that allows warm meals in schools and, of course, the opening of so-called milk kitchens. That's why, of course, I won't support this marriage. Let me remind you that, of course, I have always been in favour of a subsidy, not least of all, the student nutrition subsidy applicant in 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, would you like a word? No, no, no. Yeah, buddy, just a minute. [[...]] Ah, Comrade Petan, now it's your turn. Excuse me. Then Master Petty Officer, right? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Government Representative, colleague and colleague. So first of all, I would like to say that Mr Tanko is not at lunch, but he has purely business obligations, and that he has not been announced in advance today. I don't think we need to get into these things. In addition, when you talk about these solutions, we also encourage students to go to the inn and drink, and so on. So let's leave this case alone because it's not about these things. I would like to say that regular diet, regulated, sufficient, and not to mention healthy, is certainly one condition for the development of a young person. We used to call it that kids are like, but I mean, today's the day that's going on, and it's probably not the right term anymore. Good nutrition is also a condition for an adequate medical condition, perhaps I can say that for a psychophysical condition and a condition is also a condition for good success. I'd say nice words don't do anything. Even the billions mentioned about school tolars do not solve this problem in its entirety. We're probably all united here. The generation that deals with this law is the true generation of people, certainly the one that is most sensitive. Some say that this is the most embarrassing period when, in fact, children are no longer children, but they are not yet adults. But the fact is, as far as nutrition and this orderly diet are concerned, this generation is somehow, I will not say completely forgotten, but it is to some extent removed from the orderly diet. And if we go in the right order, there's a proper diet in primary schools, we have to admit that. We can also admit that in primary school we sometimes overstep standards. Maybe that's what we can say. During this period, children in primary school are still receptive to various educational techniques and examples, or if I use that simple expression - they are still listening. And they have a proper diet. And if we go then, if we skip this period that this law deals with, if we go to the students. Students, however, are those who have somehow skipped the most problematic or insane period and can take care of themselves. And they also have a proper diet. I think it's properly arranged, and it can be an example for something else. And now, if we go to the students. In fact, they are to some extent on their own. They are a generation that has not yet matured and that also builds up eating habits. More than not, they need to know each other as well as anyone can or gets an example or something like that. They are also the most receptive to foreign influences, including bad and bad examples. Therefore, nutrition is the one that should be accessible to this generation in an orderly manner. This would also provide us with some food habits that, of course, they build. And what are the consequences of such a situation? I'm not saying that everything is bad, that no one will get it wrong. The purpose of this law is to improve things. The students are looking for food wherever they can. How they find themselves, or near the school, is probably the most common. Of course, when they search for this food, they find something else. This must be clear to us, they also find something harmful to avoid mentioning what they all find. It would therefore be appropriate to arrange this part of the diet for these generations to be regulated. It is not surprising, therefore, that buffets grow like mushrooms in the rain in the vicinity of secondary schools and very rarely with food, even so should be said. I just hope there's nothing programmed here. But the fact is, we haven't done enough here. I reiterate, I do not say that we have done nothing; we have done too little, and solutions are not enough. I'd like to remind myself of something, and please don't take this the wrong way, because I don't mean it. I was very careful when I heard words about money. I very much understand the Minister's words that the area covered is so wide and money is needed everywhere. Without money, nothing can be saved. And that this area also requires some money and cannot be saved day or night to be arranged tomorrow. And even if a date interferes with a date, the date may also change to prepare suitable spaces. I know that money is too little, so I would be very happy if you reminded your respected colleagues on the side of you, including the words you said yourself, and also the words that Mr Minister mentioned, that there are other things that require money, and that even when you non-chalantly declare that there is no money that would not be given to another generation - I will not deliberately name it, so that you will not be able to tell me anything. But remember, when you were wasting your words, there was no money to stop you from doing this, this, and this. Remember, even for school meals, there is sometimes a shortage of tolars that some minister and, of course, the government would need. So you can't just talk like that, but for someone else we'll just give money, there's no money they wouldn't spend. Those generations of people or populations, I'm not going to mention, so you won't tell me anything, but I think you know who I mean. So be very careful and remember that we have other problems that also require money. But if for something or if for someone, then we should spend the maximum for our young generation, maybe "split" somewhere else - maybe. Approaches to nutrition of secondary and apprentices must be very serious. If we were to adopt such a proposal, which, of course, we can improve, this is clear, we would give a clear signal that we are aware of this and that we want it and we intend to solve it at a certain time. I will support such a proposal. I would also like to say that this issue is not a problem for either party or two parties, but it is a problem that must be solved by our society, which we must solve together in Slovenia. So just looking at who's proposing, what's the political option, is probably not going to be good. And I'll finish it. We never claimed that this was the only one that would solve all the problems. Far from it. Since we have not yet approached this problem differently than we are, it will not be a criticism now, just to say that things can improve further, and we want to improve. We understand that if anyone believes, including the political option that some solution is bad or not the best, that it needs to be improved, we have all the mechanisms to improve things with the amendments. We have improved or corrected such a law, where we have practically completely changed the text - it is said that this can be done! And if anyone thinks that this is true, that even a goulash is not pre-choice, that it is a bad soup, then I would say: "Help, and put in this soup something concrete, something strong, that the matter may fail." After all, if we adopt a good marriage, we will all contribute something together, then it is difficult to say, you know, but here we were in charge of this, we proposed this article. That doesn't make any sense. We can all be satisfied. The fact is that so far no one has proposed - what we hear most often - something systemic, long-term, comprehensive. We simply proposed what we thought would be a good incentive and a good basis for solving this problem. And in this context, take this matter. But if we treat it politically, then it will be difficult and any solution that comes will be on our broken feet and we will treat it not as an profession, but in some other principles that will probably not lead to a good solution. But I doubt the ideal laws that they have anywhere, and we probably have very rarely adopted any ideal laws in this temple, if at all. That is to say, if you think that what is wrong or not the best, propose an amendment and we will make a good soup, one that is likely to be digestible for all who will not be selective, but one that will solve this problem and be a system-wide regulation. Therefore, we do not acknowledge that there is a lack of what is missing, it is possible to resolve everything with amendments and corrections; we have made things worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u292	Thank you. Mag. Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u293	If we are already creating a school according to human measure, it would be good to ensure at least minimum standards of nutrition. If they are children in kindergartens, primary schools, as well as in colleges, they should be arranged in the same or similar way for secondary schoolchildren. I don't know why Mr. Jakič is so angry that the students are going to be eating at the buffets. Why is that? Article 2 clearly states: "The provider carries out his activity in high school premises," first of all, if not, in his premises or other cases, and the clause is "in the immediate vicinity of the school". Yes, of course, the problem is that the Ministry of Education did not provide adequate facilities in secondary schools. In some, this has happened and is taken care of and the concessionaire will be able to provide food in sufficient quality and appropriate supply. The law has all the elements, colleague of Montenegro, what do you say about a comprehensive solution? Mode of distribution, money - money needs to be provided. You say that for 2004 and 2005, there are no funds for these purposes. To do so with transfers under government items. Where will you get the money? From Falcone! You figured out this lease would make a lot of money. Out of this profit, respected colleagues and colleagues! But if you cheated and the government cheated that there would be no profit, then do not explain such things. That's how it is. The law is clear, simple. And integrated solutions - do you think you will study for four more years so that children can be satisfied as you express themselves? The children are us and these governments are enough to fill - a promise. After four years, it's not done. It's unfair to promise, "in the future," it's unfair. People will be fed up with our debates, and they will have nothing to do with it. This law simply needs to be adopted, and it is. Yeah, sure. Now, because it's possible to rebalance, budget rebalance, comprehensive solutions. Look, since we had comprehensive solutions to health laws, look at the package of health laws for which you have stressed all the time that comprehensive solutions will be made, and only in last year have we changed each of them twice. And the law on marriage and family relations! Some whole marriage will come - what kind of marriage has it come? And the whole law didn't come! It was a law on the acceleration of employment of disabled people - you threw it away because the opposition prepared it, and then you filed it as a whole. And that law that you filed is just like the one that we introduced in the New Slovenia Group of Members, you just replaced the articles and added a few things that are orderly. In short, there is no need for great effort, no need for great effort, and it will be easy to deal with. However, schools are required gradually - I would expect the government to ensure that these conditions, where they are not provided, are essential because there are also enough drivers to ensure these minimum standards. Not that it will be ensured tomorrow, but that food, as in Article 2, should be "friends", but the tendency is or should be within the framework of schools. We are not going to hold you right now that you must ensure the right situation in the next month or in the next six months, but that the plan must be made. This law gives you, of course, in addition to the budget - that is, you have the opportunity to provide funds within schools and to arrange it. There's no need for marriage, no need for marriage. No, not to equip schools, maybe to provide extra space, really, there is no need for any law. It only takes will, of course, a successful economic policy to make investments in our country, so that the budget can be more resources - we can talk about this so that we do not deal with deficits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u294	Mag. Janez the Comedian gets the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u295	Your Honor! The problem is recognised, the competent ministry has already taken several measures, and the 2004 and 2005 budget has significantly increased funding for high school nutrition, subsidies, solutions to the problem are being prepared, but due to the necessary substantial resources it cannot be resolved overnight. There have been a lot of public debates on the healthy diet of young people in general, and the situation in secondary schools has worsened the issue of healthy nutrition. In high school there is a large majority of the students who are particularly exposed. Compared to students, it is impossible for students to eat in guest restaurants. This prevents them in particular from a timetable and the fact that most of them live at home with their parents and therefore it is essential to organise school meals in a way that is suitable for the generation of young people in secondary schools, which is a particular problem, as most of them are also minors. Today, nutrition in secondary schools is very different, mainly depending on the ability and skills of school management and the age of the facilities. The specific problem is the necessary spaces to comply with the sanitary rules. This is a major investment investment, so it is necessary to take steps. Budgets need to provide the necessary resources to gradually acquire the necessary space and to provide sufficient resources to subsidise the student diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u296	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u297	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! That this issue is still ongoing and that it is an open question, you somehow acknowledge it to everyone, as far as I have listened to you now. Which you all kind of agree that this really needs to be settled. I also assess that this issue needs to be addressed with patience, with reasonableness, but not with some kind of mockery, and that I may not say even a worse word. Here, I think that on our part for a serious proposal, which is not complete, is only the first consideration, things can also be arranged quite differently. It was said that if we accidentally needed additional resources, we should resolve things with the budget rebalancing and so on. So these things can still be arranged. I would just point to that, subsidizing, you said, 160 tolars, bonus 30% and so on. Now I don't know if you know how this - probably a lot of people know how this is actually happening in practice: juice, maybe where some suppliers bring them to high school, because schools are closed many times too, so students can't walk about - said Mr. Jakič, these are pamphlets anyway. The juice costs 160 tolars, a 200 to 300 tolar sandwich, no dining room anyway; and I say: a lot of things - either personally or, say, most people would be happy to pay for a warm meal in their children's high school if it were possible for this meal to be there and there could be half of the resources. We should first actually ensure the possibility of a warm lunch in high school. It hasn't been done before, I'm afraid it hasn't been done. Many would be willing to pay for this, so that as much as we are now talking about, 10 billion and so on could probably be significantly less. It's about an unhealthy life. Of course, students need to get used to it, and they also need to learn to live healthy lives and so on. I am firmly convinced that it is a long-term investment, you are talking about one billion today or, say, an additional three billion if more money is needed for this system. Has anyone even calculated how much we would have saved, say, if we increased the health of a group by 1% 2% in recent years, so that there would be fewer shortages so that they would be healthier, so that there would be fewer costs for health and so on? Any percentage of the investment on one end would probably be known on the other end and it's just a reallocation. Long-term investment can certainly be this, I think, variants are a million. You have a million reasons or some different views on this issue in a negative sense, and I do in a positive sense. There's only a possible difference between us. In short, my assessment is that this issue could be resolved and opened, if not otherwise, and has found some long-term solution, and this certainly makes it possible. This is the first treatment, your thing is if you refuse. But, in fact, you're saying one thing, you're doing another; not just the whole mandate, but the previous mandate. You're particularly sensitive to these things yesterday and today. Whatever we're suggesting, none of this is good. I don't know. In short, we don't know anything, and you know everything, but don't do anything, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u298	We have exhausted the list of reported and present debaters. This would conclude the general debate. And I'll move on to the decision. I call on the Members and Members to come to the Chamber. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Please note that we will know what we will vote on: "The bill on subsidising the diet of students and apprentices - the first reading - is suitable for further consideration." I will put this proposal to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members of Parliament present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed and I conclude the agenda. I'm moving to eight. Agenda item - PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE LEGISLATION IN THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by Mr Jože Tanko. With regard to this law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee has adopted a decision as a proposal to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. That is why I will move on to a presentation of the views of the groups. Lenko - no presence, Alojz Sok - no presence, Janez Podobnik - no presence. Branko Janc wants a word? No, no, no. Silva Nigga wants a word? He's got the word "silva nigger." Position of the United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u299	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, warmly welcomed representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. Proposal for the initiative of these amendments under the Housing Act. The main problem with housing policy in Slovenia is that it does not give a choice of housing careers. Only two forms are available, namely own apartment or rented apartment. In the first way, in addition to buying a market apartment, it is highly desirable to build a house of its own, which in many cases, because of permissible self-building, which in fact means employment in black, much more cost-effective than buying. Of course, such a way of addressing housing needs continues to lead to widespread construction, which is not in line with the principles of sustainable or co-natural development, and creates even large investments in public infrastructure, not only municipal equipment, but also public passenger transport, the network of educational institutions, public health and all that is in the public system. As a result of this situation in the residential area in Slovenia, more and more people are living in more than one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u300	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues not to disturb the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u301	or otherwise inappropriate living conditions, but even in an open home. [[...]] Only in Ljubljana do we have 100 families or individuals in social security units, at least 70 more on waiting lists, which is not enough units to solve this problem. In the public sphere, it is a challenge to provide housing in local communities, local funds and non-profit organisations, as far as they remain. The situation is very different from the municipality to the municipality, but this is not a priority in almost no case. In general, housing policy measures only take place in larger urban centres. Some interest also in small municipalities was caused by the offer of co-investment in rental apartments by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, there are fundamental problems that some congregations do not even have their own dwellings, nor do they have any housing policies, even though they are bound by the Constitution, the law, and everything else. The demand for rental apartments is significantly higher than the offer. As an illustration, I should like to mention the invitation to tender for the allocation of 230 non-profit dwellings in Ljubljana, to which 1,657 beneficiaries have applied, those who have responded to the tendering conditions. It's just a subversive situation. Such demand is also due to the fact that it is only here that leases are made for an indefinite period of time, allowing security of stay for non-profit rentals, which also allows them to subsidise. The possibility of subsidising rent in market dwellings due to the difficulty of drawing up the rules of allocation and the necessary resources have not yet been established in any municipality, even though last autumn's housing law also provides a legal basis for such solutions. This situation makes the situation in Slovenia so. If we are to act as an equal partner in a large family of European countries, we will also have to bear the good practices of housing policies, which have been set up primarily by social democratic political options, which are based on concern for all people, including those who are socially weaker. Appropriate arrangements at both national and local level should be in order to allow for different forms of housing offers and to create housing careers based on the needs and opportunities of stimulated private investors and also financial funds for the construction of rental apartments, assistance in setting up non-governmental organizations of tenants who, as elsewhere in Europe, would ensure the regulation of leases, particularly in the private sphere where the situation is most critical. In view of this fact, Articles 3 and 4 of this Act may be attached, but we will not support this law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Sasha Peca is not present. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The issue we're supposed to be talking about is very important. Therefore, I am sorry that all of us, respected colleagues and colleagues, who are more or less present in the Assembly premises in our seats in this Chamber or in our offices where we listen, are already a little tired - all together. But all of this affects the attitude towards things that may be worth more attention than we think. However, allow me to convey the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law. As early as last year, when the draft housing law was being considered in the National Assembly, the proposed amendments to the Law were tabled, we all like to call them socialised, but they were rejected because of insufficient support. The proposer introduced the amendment of the law and with it wanted to introduce provisions which should be in their social content once again, if we are speaking in concrete terms. Of course, the item, the assessment of the financial consequences is cruel, and this is likely for all if these social elements, which the applicant gives, are taken into account. We probably all agree that housing issues are very crucial in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a vicious circle. I don't want to bother you, my respectable colleague, but I will if I don't listen to you here in the office, because I've learned a lot from you. I mean, I don't think I'm writing, and I'm just losing my mind, or I'm losing my mind when I'm tired. Madam Vice President, you know, there's a completely different role. Mostly a vicious circle. Look. There is no housing, there is a huge need, it is clear that many people not only want to, but they cannot afford other than non-profit apartments. If one municipality does not have them - in particular, I will just say on a personal case - if they are lacking, if there is no funds for new construction and if the Constitutional Court issues a decision giving them the option and, of course, at the same time, the requirement that the rents of non-profit apartments increase, it is up to you to at least create and restore some old non-profit apartments, to decide and respect. This whole decision, it was me who did it in person. I would just like this money to be able, on the one hand, to restore old non-profit dwellings and, on the other hand, to increase the subsidies granted by the congregation to all beneficiaries of the subsidies. It's a vicious circle. People resent it, of course, because of such and similar acts - but what. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] In short. I don't want to hear the stories again that are that there are, I don't know, populism and whatever, elections and so on. The law that was proposed brings fresh ideas, but not all. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] But it is true - I conclude, Mr Vice-President - but it is true, ladies that it is a pity that this law has been introduced after a reduced procedure. [[...]] If I were at first reading, I would be happy to support him, of course, by further upgrading. I'm just gonna say one more thing, and I'm gonna finish it. Regarding everything we do, the only unity that was, of course, with the exception of our Slovenian National Party, was this: "We Slovenians want to go to Europe." We're there, we're there. But it was a very formal act. You know, after these words and actions that have happened, you're gonna have to do something and show it. And I'd like to see you prove it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u304	Please, my friend Barovic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u305	I'm done. I'm sorry. I'll just steal a minute. To prove, as you could have proved a little earlier in the previous student law, and in this you could also prove, because you also have in the rapporteur Mr. Jakič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u307	I'm sorry I stole a minute, but I'll give it another minute, at the next point, I owe it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u308	France Tsukati has the floor. Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The housing crisis of people is not a small problem. And probably if there were more people here who didn't have a settled housing problem, they'd probably take this topic a little bit more seriously. Just one example, the case of a young man who is single, who has a job for a certain period of time, deserves so much that he does not belong to the category of those with the lowest income, but cannot get credit because he is employed for a certain period of time. And such a person cannot enter the existing housing aid scheme in any way. And if he comes in, it's also a question of whether he'll ever make it to a non-profit apartment and whether he'll ever be able to get such a non-profit apartment for rent so that the state will somehow subsidize his rent and so on. No! No! And of course, such a man doesn't get married - "first the stable, then the cow," they said. Some still take this seriously. But he would finance himself, buy his own apartment, or rent his own apartment, which he would probably get without problems. But the current scheme does not allow him to be helped in any way in this case. That's wrong. Gentlemen, this is the basic problem that these novels want to solve. So, unless it comes into the scheme of subsidised matters, non-profit matters and so on and is prepared to contribute, buy, pay for itself - why the state would not also help it. Because then you'd solve your problem and not be a burden to the state anymore. The law therefore extends the range of beneficiaries to these aids. It also extends to cases where people themselves with all the intensity, not only by saving, but also, say, by building up or buying a profitable apartment, would solve their case. And of course, you will reject this law against it, as before. You'll say it's a pre-election topic. Yeah, we've had similar ideas in the past few years. Gentlemen, if these are such interesting pre-election themes, you've known them since we suggested it, that's two, three years ago. Why didn't you take such a thing? Why didn't you listen to our proposals at the time, and now you would have included them as your own, and you would have wished for this huge pre-election effect, if you spoke like that. No! No! But you're going to say, yes, because that's very good, you have to solve these things. All these projects have not proved to be effective so far. All things are kind of faded. The projected housing prices, the projected drastic decline in housing prices on the market, have not been realized, prices are rising. The number of those who come into this category is very small, suspiciously small, and so on. But you'll say, we'll settle this after the election. That's what you say. You'll settle this after the election, because now you can't do it for four years. I believe that this will be settled after the elections, only if there is not the same government, that is the problem. But it would certainly be good for this law, this amendment to be adopted, because then it will go back to the committee, it will be possible to amend it, it will be possible to process it thoroughly, only if there is some good will on your part, in order to move this problem from a dead point. And then, of course, in the next term, we could better resolve this matter if we showed something good will now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u310	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision, as proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal is different from the previous points. The proposal for a decision reads: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration." This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. It's 38 votes against 11. (For the vote was 38.)(against 11.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the legislative procedure for the bill. And I'm closing the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u311	President, I am procedurally protesting that of the 25 speakers of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the Chamber, in the last six votes, there are only six colleagues who have basically made us bitter all week and, of course, made us bitter all Friday. And it is unfair of colleagues who call extraordinary meetings not to attend these meetings and leave us here in the National Assembly to vote on their proposals, and of course keep up and away from their families also employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and journalists and journalists. I'm protesting!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u312	Thank you. There is no debate on that. Here you go, buddy Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u313	Mr President, and I propose or demand that Mr Jakič apologize to the opposition for all the behaviour of today and many of the insults, even to the citizens, for saying that these problems that we are referring to in these laws are our problems, the problems of the opposition. No, gentlemen! These are the problems of the citizens. All citizens! And if you think that opening these problems is just a matter of opposition, then it would be good for you to apologize to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u314	I'm putting an end to this debate. Jakich will judge himself if he apologizes. I'm moving to agenda number nine. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on media, summary procedure The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport has adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer if they want. My friend France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u315	Your Honor! The problem of media pluralisation and the media fund is already known to this national council. In these five minutes, I just want to remind you why this question is being reopened. In particular because, last May, the European Commission adopted a so-called Green Paper on the protection of media pluralism, highlighting the importance of media pluralism, media pluralism, objective citizens' information as a basic source of democracy. You will probably agree with this that these initiatives and requirements are not simply attracted to hair, that they do have some content and make a demand for our situation as well. Our Constitution also states in Article 39 that everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature. Therefore, it is also incumbent upon the State to ensure that the public is informed directly of important facts that may not be reported by unilateral media or only reported in the form of biased comments. The country must ensure this and not only allow it, it must actively cut into this area. As for us with information and information flow and objectivity, you probably do not need to explain these problems. Sooner or later, people will realize that we do not have media pluralism. The Society of Journalists has just given a warning like this. [[I'll quote]] "If, years ago, autonomous and professional journalism has been the most threatened by pressure from the centres of political and economic power, it has been increasingly threatened by the pressures of employers in media houses, i.e. administration and owners. So there's the power of capital in the background." We don't go into who it is right now - whether there are political roads or whether, like the true society of journalists, the power of capital is the one that actually dictates public opinion, which dictates how the public should think and think - it doesn't matter. It is important that we be aware of this that we are establishing a fund, as it is in many countries, and that we are seriously confronted with this issue. Every monopoly in the country is harmful. The monopoly in the economy is harmful because it does not allow for competitive price reductions. The monopoly in the store is to the detriment of customers because they have to buy at predetermined prices. But the monopoly of information is harmful because there is no clear confrontation between ideas, and the smoke, and the freshness where people can decide for themselves one or another option. Since, of course, I am running out of time as a candidate, I will try to say something else on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u316	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Does Private Cheliga want a word? Please, DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. The media have a specific role to play in each area. At a time when the world is becoming a small global village, we face the question of how, despite the constant concentration of ownership, and the media is no exception, to ensure the widest possible range of media content. Media pluralism, which is mostly referred to today's bill, must of course be dealt with from different angles of view, because only one of the criteria ignores everyone else and gives a misleading picture. The recent adoption of the national cultural programme 2004-2007, as one of the objectives, states precisely the preservation of media pluralism. We are aware that the objectives pursued by the national programme must be legally defined. In our view, the Media Act has put in place adequate mechanisms to ensure the spread of media ownership and the diversity of media content, as shown by the evaluated data of relevant international organisations, which does not mean that it is not necessary to keep up with the realization of media plurality, which is also ensured by the dispersion of ownership. Last year we celebrated a 75-year-old national radio and 45-year-old Slovenian television, and 50 years later the first local radio station came to our attention. The ups and downs of media space certainly represent experience for the future. Entry into the EU itself will bring a lot more in this area. The European Parliament has expressed concern about media concentration and media non-pluralism in several areas. However, due to the weakness of the European Parliament and to some legal obstacles so far, the EU's attempts to open media pluralism issues have not been successful. It is therefore certain that the freedom of the media and their plurality will have to be dealt with on our own by internal regulation. Lack of will and temptation of power can lead to severe monopolization. We believe that the proposed law does not contribute to the independence and impartiality of public radio and television, because we believe that financial support, as proposed, is not sufficient in our view to promote media pluralism. In addition, financial assistance to the media is sufficient in our view, as almost all those who have requested it have recently come to terms with the available data. In the DeSUS Group, however, we believe that a decision on the financing of the media should be passed on to a body independent of the Ministry and, with other State-level facilitations, non-discriminatoryly ensure a level playing field for all existing and potential participants. While the proposer notes that there is also a need to improve the system of control over media concentrations, which is of crucial importance in the view of the parliamentary group. However, it does not define mechanisms to improve control. Except for the possibility of granting the consent of the competent minister if a certain share of the property is exceeded. All of these, however, take into account the already prepared government amendment proposal and the update of the media law. We will not support the bill as stated in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Master Janez Drobnič, position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u319	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. If we look at the analysis of how the media work in some countries, Europe or those with a long tradition and the market system, we can see that the concern for pluralisation is constant. The natural process is to concentrate capital. And this is a problem in some Western countries, as well as in some Eastern countries, that there has been a concentration of capital in the hands of the media. This, of course, does not speak for democratisation and pluralisation, especially outside, but at least internal pluralisation is greater. We may not be able to talk about direct media concentration. They seem to be dismembered or we have a crowd. But if we look at the real background, inherently connected, we see that there's been a concentration of media. That's one thing. The second is that internal pluralisation, and therefore we do not have any specific practices. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a fund for media pluralisation would be a welcome institution to help achieve the higher objectives of pluralisation. See also in Sweden and some other countries have initiatives and assistance aimed at pluralisation in the implementation of new journals. If they find that some niche, some area, some space, either valuable, ideological, political or visual, is not well covered, then, of course, they are financed in the initial period. Some projects have been found to be failing, but they have not yet thrown the rifle into the corn. Many people are accepted and adequately covered, so it is necessary, even in other countries, to have funds for media pluralisation, some do not, but they have media subsidies to cover part of distribution costs, for distribution channels or for these mechanisms to finance, or for the various editions that fill this space, to finance, in the initial period of media life, the purpose of pluralisation, both externally and internally, in the individual media as well as in the appearance of different media. See, in Germany, the Constitutional Court has decided that there is not enough pluralisation of the media, such as television, at federal level, they insist that pluralisation is also ensured at the country level. The media space, as I have already said, is concentrated in Slovenia, if we look at a good background, it is becoming increasingly monolithic and also ideologically less plural. It lacks both external and internal plurality, especially because there has been a link between political elite and capital. Political elites, capital and then journalism, or newspaper houses, or editions, or other houses, then become overly connected to one side. With us, we are unhappy, at least in New Slovenia, how they reacted to the attempt to publicize the meetings, this national assembly, how some journalists are, not everyone, as an attempt to discredit Slovenian journalists and an attempt at political decision-making. Is this a political decision if you release the meeting? It's not. This is a presentation of various opinions. This, however, is the case in most European countries. While one of the journalists of the largest diary says that the transfer of meetings is more than an attempt to establish a political state. Do you remember last year when we proposed that these meetings be made available to the public? In June, there was a bidding of orders, and that was interpretation because the battle opposition wanted to have transmissions. Yesterday and today there's no such transmissions. There's obviously something else in the back. It's a media law, a respected vice president. If you want to comment, it's the media law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u320	Don't communicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u321	I'm sorry. You take my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u322	Please finish, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u323	You have no right to comment now. Excuse me, sir. She took 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u324	No, it was already ringing. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u325	I can end up here, too. In view of these, distasteful comments, I could only say that this also shows some kind of tolerance for the presentation of an opinion. Thank you so much for listening to me or at least being in there and being quiet. But with the others you've been teasing, it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Franci Rokavec, position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! That Slovenia needs a decision to contribute to the pluralisation of the media has clearly illustrated the events of yesterday. The fact is that yesterday has clearly demonstrated that Slovenia needs a fund that will, of course, contribute to greater media pluralisation. Indeed, the independence of the public media is needed both politically and financially. This is a fundamental condition for the exercise of freedom of public information. Mr President, I would suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u328	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u329	Then settle the situation in Parliament. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u330	colleagues and colleagues not to disturb the debaters. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u331	that it may be similar to a meeting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u332	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u333	One of the rights that has been violated several times so far is the right to be informed about public matters. This is said more than plainly by Article 39 of the Constitution. The reader or viewer must have information available to both government representatives and the opposition, which is the basis of a balanced and democratic media space and political culture. According to various European documents, media pluralism is the foundation of democracy. And Slovenia is the only country among the 25 members of the European Union, where there is also no political opposition diary. Quality media space is a space that takes into account and respects different opinions, different views and solutions to certain problems or challenges. Our space still offers too many same views, as well as solutions, too much information, which are incomplete or subordinated to certain political options, views or goals, as has been pointed out many times by representatives of the public concerned and of course also civil society. And how can we imagine this question differently than that the Prime Minister may be on the cover of the biggest diary three times a week? Three times a week. Therefore, it will be one of the core and main tasks that the decision should have to ensure the balance of the media space. First of all, it would protect the one who's medialy weaker. The aim of the Fund will be to act as an independent, independent institution, i.e. independent of any political options currently in power. It is also an important task of the Fund to accelerate the development of technological infrastructure in the media area, to provide infrastructure for the distribution of printed media. The Fund should also provide support for the provision of competition in the distribution of local, regional and national printed media, although this issue is better regulated in local and regional areas. But the question is why it is not better regulated in the media law itself. Therefore, in Slovenia there is a need to provide an open and competitive space for all publishers of printed media, and competition in the distribution of printed media is also important. Because of these facts, we will support the completion of the media law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u334	Thank you. I give the floor to my colleague, Josef Školč, for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Amendment [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Sok, you know that in presenting the views of the Group of Members, I cannot argue with you. Whereas you have made changes so that, in fact, it is not possible to do so later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u336	Please state your position on the Member's Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u337	I'll only be happy to do that when I calm Mr. Sok down. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u338	Please, Comrade Sok! Here you go, fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u339	The amendment of the media law is problematic, for the first time, in its assumptions and, for the second time, in its implementation. The assumption of this law plays too much to the fact that the media have only a political dimension, too much to follow politics and that they must in some way reflect what is happening in politics. That's, I'll say, a very wrong attitude. It is more problematic, however, that the proponents of most influential media say that those who have their audience, their readers, simply consider themselves to be governmental. This assessment is problematic because, in fact, it raises questions about the work of all those who do such or different media. Then, logically, there is also a solution that leads to the media fund, which is supposed to solve those problems that the media do not normally solve. He's supposed to be solving the problems that political parties have by presenting their views. But that desire itself is not even problematic. It is problematic that newspapers are also trying to undermine this terrible logic, which, I will say, normally controls politics and parliament, and force would be destructive if it were applied in other areas of life. In the media, of course. Therefore, the proposal for a fund to ensure pluralisation in this political sense is, of course, flawed because it takes the media a step back, leads them to count the articles, to count the positions, to try to secure money from the budget for the promotion of certain positions. Basically, the media law is designed by trying to protect the independence of the media, both programme and otherwise. Therefore, there can be no particular question of how individual newspapers can come up without having to pay any direct contributions for them, it is said, to buy them, but others come up in this normal way to pay the 150 to 200 or the periodic 500 or more tolars for them. The implementation of the Media Fund is also problematic because it is to be managed by political parties. It is also a problem because it takes on competence, I will say, to the government and bring the President of the Republic into some situation to manage something called the budget fund. This is a completely, I'll say, unique solution. It is also problematic when it speaks of the need to provide money for distribution and technology, which means that past economic legislation they would favour activities that are also non-median in Slovenia but are economic activities. For these reasons, this attempt to amend the media law is rejected because it takes the media to a time of politicisation rather than to a time of freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Only Bevk gets the word, the position of the United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will not support the amendment of the Media Law proposed by the Group of Members in charge of colleague Tank. Their aim is to establish a fund to ensure greater media pluralisation. In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proponents wrote a statement by the American organisation "Freedom House", which recently stated that public newspapers in Slovenia are free, but should be under pressure from politicians and editors, and often the authors' self-censorship. Then the applicants also note that readers and viewers need to have information both from government representatives and the opposition, which is the basis of a balanced and democratic media space and a political culture. They are also noted that unfortunately, the legacy of the previous totalitarian system is still present in the media or editorial policy of certain public publications. Now, let us look at the results of the survey published in March this year in one of the Slovenian weeks on the issue of the emergence of parliamentary political parties on the national television and radio programme. An analysis of the appearance of political parties on TV Slovenia shows a marked deviation of the Slovenian Democratic Party by 28.%. It is followed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with 18. In third place is Nova Slovenija with 17, ranked fourth with the Slovenian National Party with 11, on the 5th United List of Social Democrats with 10th and the 6th Slovenian People's Party with 9 per cent. The DeSUS and the Young Slovenia Party are strong in the back. On the radio Slovenia, the image is almost identical. The Slovenian Democratic Party has 26, LDS 18. The third place is shared by SLS, SNS and the United List of Social Democrats with 10%. DeSUS and the Young Slovenia Party are once again strong on the tail. The opposition thus belongs to 60% of the political reference, to the coalition together with the People's Party, because the SLS was still a member of the government coalition in March and 40% of the political reference on national television. Therefore, opposition policies are more common on public RTV Slovenia, and the reasons for the adoption of the law are based on very fragmented foundations. At 19:00 I was in my office and opened various programs with a remote control, both on TV Slovenia and on POP TV or on TV Koper. John Janša appeared everywhere. It was completely equivalent to the coalition policies that took place in the central reports today. In the course of this discussion, I would also like to remind you of the Slovenian newspaper-publishing project, which, despite the extensive financial support of the Demos government at the beginning of the 1990s, had failed in some way. It is clear that the media can only be kept on the market if they are of quality, if accepted by readers, and not from the level of support from the state budget. In its opinion, the government argued that it rejected the amendment of the media law. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is also very critical. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, as it is said, will not support the novelties of the media law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u342	Thank you very much. I invite Bogdan Barovic to the position of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Now I'm gonna be really short. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the decision made by the mother's working body. We support and agree that the novel is not suitable for further consideration, not because of the seven elements rightly cited by the legislature. The plurality of the media is not dependent on the fund, it is not dependent on the laws, but depends on the people working in these media. Some will make use of the fund and work as they have done so far, while others will be honest witches, rapporteurs and commentators on their conscience and with their heads. They're one and the other. No fund and no law will change them. Let us change them, respected colleagues and colleagues, only we can and only ourselves - for those we think must change. Journalists have their own head, think with it, and act on their conscience. This one's clean or she's gonna burn them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u344	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. And also the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u345	Thank you for your word. First, I would like to complete a report or talk on how often someone appears in the media. You know, indeed, the opposition often appears in the media, especially Janša in Youth; we probably all read. It's just a difference whether you show up to be praised for writing nice stories about you or spitting on you. And I would suggest when you're doing these research, that you're also writing a plus and a minus. Concerning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u346	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u347	I'd like to read something. [[...]] The editor of Slovenian News says about tabloids: "Tabloid builds on readers' emotional responses. Tabloid is an immediate assessment of things, man. Tabloids are immediate value judgements that are always double-full, that's okay, that's not it, that man is good, they're bad." Gentlemen, if we transfer this to the political field, then our daily media are political tabloids. Let me explain, just read what I just got by e-mail from a gentleman I don't know, this is what he wrote about yesterday. "I turned on the TV receiver to take a closer look at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which discusses the questionable corruption activities of the Slovenian political summit. I have seen the happy debate between the Austrian, Croatian and German parliaments in a kind manner, and our Parliament cannot be found on any channel. How is it possible for such resounding things to get behind closed doors? Someone else is hoping to say it's not about continuing red rule with all the supplements worth it. Therefore, citizens should not be allowed to see and hear what will be spoken of by those whom we have chosen. Who are these dark forces that continue to draw even today's policies with all the cover from the past, etc." This gentlemen, it's part of the letter I got. To explain what I want to say, let me just show or explain in a minute what you probably read in Dnevnik, the title is: Coalitiona: The work of an electric investigator is biased, which says: "After almost five hours of discussion, Members of the ruling coalition rejected the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry" etc. It also states that all government Members in turn rejected the Commission's findings as evidence that the Commission was working on a biased basis, etc., and continued to make some general assessments, descriptions, no concrete evidence cited by the President of the Commission of Inquiry, which was full of reports. No concrete evidence, no figures, no explanations, valid explanations, from which we have reason to suspect, can be reasonable to suspect that this was a major corrupt act. However, they were specific in their explanation of the government's reply, which stated that in the time of the Bajuk government there had been a change of director Eles Vekoslav Korošc from Vitomir Türk, and what followed? And of course. And that's exactly what's written, proven, and a really nice scheme is made, so the journalist really tried. Gentlemen, if anyone can't see the bias in this report, then I can't help you. The point is that this Slovenia, as far as the media area is concerned, is sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u348	These were the views of the groups of Members. We will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. There's no more debate. I will read the proposal for a conclusion: "The proposal for a law supplementing the law on media - a reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration." We will decide on this proposal for a decision. Voice explanation, Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u349	Thank you very much. On 25 June 1991, the first issue of Slovenia came out, and just last week, when I was moving my archives, I found records that I can actually repeat on this topic today, or on the same issue raised by the proponents on politics and on the independence of the media that the budget fund would provide, at that time appeared in the same way as today. As it was argued at the time, when I quote in the second Andre Rott, the editor at the time, when he said that the idea of Slovenian, who was then about two years old, had been accepted by all those who supported the newspaper, which was supposed to belong to this and other party, because in Europe the client officers were already in the dark. And immediately it turned out that according to the programme content, this was supposed to be a central, European newspaper, which, both externally and according to the content, would still have a starting point in the Christian ethos. And this is what Europe has seen and survived in the last two millenniums, and it has also matured. In short, despite the fact that independence was being discussed, it was actually a dependent medium that had come from the then budget fund for media pluralisation, before the 27 million then dinars could survive only this one, and two newspapers for some small money were tied to the budget money that the Members then, without knowing what they were voting on, had never, in the end, supported the public tender. We got a political paper, but it didn't go off. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Because he was political, but because he didn't hold up the professional criteria. This would probably also happen with a fund that could be made possible by such a law that I will not support myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u350	All those who want to explain your voice would know that you really explain your voice, that we are not starting a new debate. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u351	Thank you very much. A proposal for a decision that says that the law is not a suitable basis, of course I will not support it. I firmly believe that the adoption of this law could help us to have a more balanced media space, that the right to information on public matters in Slovenia could be more present and that, above all, it would reduce the fact that journalists would not be subjected to so much pressure to threats as they have recently been. I understand that, in the face of these threats by capitalists and political elites and authorities, they cannot write as they would like with their heart and sincere wishes. That's clear. That's what the press will say, some of them. In order to be able to do anything in this area, it is imperative to make a difference. Consider examples of how unilateral reporting is reported because journalists are under constant threat. We've got cases full of them. This morning, I heard on the national radio that the debate on corruption was virtually out of place yesterday because the opposition obstructed it. However, it was not said that she had minimum time and that she had taken advantage of everything and could not attend the debate to prevent it. That wasn't there. Please, stop being rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u352	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u353	Then last time we had a hearing, we had a candidate for Minister, Mr. Lahovnik. He's completely entangled. He did not know about the corrupt acquisitions of Slovenian companies. However, the second day in a report in a Slovenian daily, only the EPP from the Lahovnik candidate, as if there were no question of Members. The same day was the report on Mr. Potočnik's hearing [[End warning sign]] in the European Commission. There, of course, normally, there were only questions from Members of Parliament about what Members were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u354	Comrade Jerovšek, time!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u355	They used to bother me, so let me finish. And you're also saying you need to talk to the boards. When we had an eight-hour session on corruption, it was allowed to talk, in a Slovenian journal about it not a word. Not a word! Because journalists fear that this subject that comes out of power could even be discussed. If you vote for this proposal again, you will extend and support such practice. I know that's what you're thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Yasha Zląbet has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u357	Shirca's colleague already said a lot about Slovenian, but there were two other newspapers at the time. One was the Martian newspaper TV 15, which received a few coins, and the other was Democracy, which was already in completely red numbers, which were in the hands of Bavčar and Janša. And then who would have hoped to challenge the defense minister and the police minister? Those of us who objected, we were immediately against Slovenia. In fact, that democracy was such a bad newspaper that it is not possible to understand how Janša and Bavčar should have done such a feat at all. And all of Slovenia laughed at this failure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u358	You are using the rules of procedure because this is not the subject of a law in which we explain our vote, how we will vote. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u359	Allow me to explain my voice or to reaffirm my positive view of marriage. That's what I'm talking We've heard of the Slovenian several times. In this explanation, however, let us say once that Slovenia has actually shut down because of its inability to sell because it failed to join the distribution network. With us, we intrude, manages the distribution network, is called a chain of retail sites, work Sales and home delivery Work and Dnevnik. And this is some monopoly that would probably need to be softened by this law. In Germany, let me say, the distribution of regional monopolies is also in their hands. Just like it's normal. Why would there be more distribution companies? They have regional monopolies in their full hands. But there's a law that these distributors have to accept all the media offered under the same conditions. They have to. As a result, the Slovenian failed, and no diary will succeed if he does not have the blessing of these distributors. And that is what needs to be pointed out, and what this novelty of law also solves or gives clues to how to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u360	Thank you. Leo Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u361	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. For the conclusion, of course, against the bill. The media fund, in which politicians, any politician, would sit, would be a direct blow to the independence of journalism. And whoever this politician is. The sooner you know it, the better. None of the politicians should be involved in the media and in the programming or content policy of newspapers and electronic media. And that is the greatest value of the media. And you want to command the media. This can't happen. The media is on the market, the print media is on the market. Buy them from anyone who thinks he'll find something for himself in that medium. Electronic media, colleague Jerovšek, you do not represent this, I apologize for this disqualification, you can then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u362	Do not embalm in the bench. Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u363	I'll explain. [[...]] And please let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u364	Don't jump into words.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u365	Thank you, President. Electronic media are also, except for the RTV house, on the market, it is also partly, and again, of course, they are different on the market with their advertising messages they sell. And people choose again. And that's how it has to stay. And it can't be different. And all you want and what I will always be fighting against is that any political group, and it's not essential whether it's ours or yours, is commanding directly or indirectly the media. This can't happen. It is necessary to fight against this, and it is necessary to ensure that the media are able to think for themselves and to guide their editorial policy in the same way as it is now. And we have good media. And so many things, as has been said today in this regard, are just proof that we must no longer give the politicians the opportunity to command the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u366	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u367	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr Kremjar will vote against this decision, because I too will vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u368	Don't argue with your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u369	No, I'm just explaining. For I will also vote against this decision, which means that we will both vote against it. As far as Slovenian is concerned, I've already said this myself, those who have problems with this newspaper should actually imagine what happened to this newspaper and how it was difficult to produce it. And really, what a fellow Member Tsukati said when he started coming out, I was looking for him in Cyprus for 10 days because I couldn't get him anywhere. There was a problem with the distribution of this newspaper. There, too, they conspired with the help of politics and refused to dissipate the newspaper. Confirmed. That's one. As far as this survey referred to by Mr Bevk is concerned, I think it has already been mentioned here for the third time today and claims that Nova Slovenija has taken third place. Of course, that's a big lie. And even if it were true, you forgot to mention the government in the media. But where is the government in these polls, when ministers appear every night or almost every night in all the reports? But if you take this into account, of course, to get a real picture of how many political options in this Slovenian media space, which is actually not plural, I say that it is not plural. It would be very good for democracy and for the progress of Slovenia to resolve this issue in such a way and give it a chance, either by means of the media fund or by actually letting the media do what they can. But not as it was yesterday, when they deliberately announced that they would be transmitting the meeting on TV, we received two messages that the meeting would be postponed and it was not in the end. Tell me who arranged this and who influenced the fact that there was no transmission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u370	Peace. I won't say another word until there's peace. Comrade Kelemin, you have the floor if you want it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u371	Yes, of course, I want a word, and I love it very much. I just can't talk if the unrest is unbearable. That, and I can't guarantee order, and you have to believe that, it's not in my purview. As far as the plurality of the media, as far as the Fund is concerned, I certainly support this proposal, because, in fact, also on the basis of what happened yesterday, these reports, which have already been mentioned, also in relation to the work of the Commission of Inquiry and so on. What kind of spitting after a commission that has done real right, I will of course explain it all and agree on it long and wide, when I have time for my colleagues, to the rest of you who have just spat on the work of the commission, personally, I will not seek out any expert, as you have looked around to write you those pamphlets and lies and so on. I'll do it myself because I'm able to do it, don't worry, and I know so much about this job that I've been doing for so long, before, and especially now that I can do it. But I'd like to say this. You're saying we want to command the media. Yeah, what should we command the media with the fleas? Please! The media is commanded with capital, with money, can be commanded by the formation, the old structures, also your policy and so on. You can be in charge of the media. Not us, we can't command them. Please! Look at the article that Mr. Drago Ocvirk wrote here. Look at what he wrote, "the informational consensus with us is not only because of the monolithic political elite that we have, but primarily the result of the large deviations of journalists themselves on the basic guidelines of journalistic ethics," and so on and so on. In short, there is much to be done to enable the media system in Slovenia to be plural.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u372	Time's up, colleague Kelemina, thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u373	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision because I do not think this is a suitable basis for further consideration, and I would add that we also knew the Slovenian story in Cyprus. Since we knew that it was written quite critically at the expense of the mayor and the municipality, we also tried to read such articles, but unfortunately there was no such articles in distribution, so we ordered them on purpose in the municipality. And after a while, we canceled it because it was actually kind of a newspaper and unworthy of our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u374	I understand that we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Notice that there will be no misunderstanding in the vote. This decision reads: "The proposal for a law supplementing the law on media in a reduced procedure is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 64 present, 47 to and 16 to. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] The decision is adopted. The proposal is not suitable for further consideration. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're at the last, 10. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Lands. Here too, we will end up voting on whether or not it is suitable for further consideration. The proposal is that it is not suitable for further consideration. The proposal for a law was submitted by colleague Sok for consideration. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes that the proposal, as I said, is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I now give the floor to the proposer first, five minutes. Then there are some groups of Members who want to explain their position and then we move on to a decision. You have the floor, Mr. Applicant, colleague Sok, five minutes. [[A question from the background.]] What do you mean, five minutes together? No, you're here to propose and then on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I thank you for being present at this point, because there were no government representatives in the previous two. And it is also illogical that Mr Jakič is clear that there is no opposition, but he does not see that there are no government representatives here. I am sorry that we are considering an extremely important law in such a late time, because this decision, which has already been taken by the Home Working Committee, will, I am sure, have long-term consequences for Slovenia. Already tonight and many times before, I have heard reports of foreigners interested in the purchase of Slovenian properties and, of course, Slovenian agricultural land are among them. The aim of this law is to reintroduce the maximum amount of land in the agricultural land law. Look, the earth's maximum is known by many, if not all European countries. Austria, in order to maintain as many rural jobs as possible and to preserve rural settlements, in its legislation limits the growth of large-scale enterprises and favours the creation and economic development of small and medium-sized agricultural and forestry plants. Switzerland, the level of agricultural land protection is higher than in other countries, which is guaranteed by different instruments. If the acquirer already has legal or economic resources with more agricultural land than would be necessary to achieve the average income in the country, the acquisition of the land shall be refused. France, with a view to creating and maintaining family farms, has adopted certain restrictions on the formation of large-necked farms in France. They do not approve an increase in farms over a total area of not more than 100 hectares or give 50% more in the mountain world and agricultural communities should not exceed 375 hectares. Denmark has a specific maximum of 70 hectares. Denmark has even legally restricted foreign property trafficking, i.e. land acquisition, and has achieved this through negotiations with the EU. Hungary knows a maximum of 400 hectares. The country's intervention in the functioning of the agricultural transport market varies from country to country. Therefore, no European country leaves agricultural transport to unsupervised market flows and short-term acquisitions, but rather, transport based on a long-term land policy manages with the constraints defined. And how this area, following the amendment of the agricultural land law adopted last year by this National Assembly, is regulated in the Republic of Slovenia, where there is no restriction in this regard after the new decision of the law. We have one of the most liberalised markets for agricultural land, thanks to the Constitutional Court's decision. On the basis of the principle of free economic initiative, the Constitutional Court has requested an amendment to the agricultural land law in order to remove the restriction on the production of large-scale land. Such a decision was taken by the Constitutional Court at the initiative of agricultural organisations, 20. The decision stated that certain agricultural organisations, namely 12 on the basis of, I emphasise that their own statements already exceed 200 hectares of comparable agricultural areas and that, for this reason, it is also necessary to make this possible for other agricultural organisations. The Constitutional Court has thus indirectly stated in the decision that the restriction of the creation of a nobleman is not in accordance with Article 33, and not with Article 74, paragraph 1, and 2, of the Constitution, because it is a restriction on the free economic initiative or because it is a restriction on competition. In doing so, the Constitutional Court has stated, once again, that it has taken into account its own statements by the 12 constitutional instigators and has failed to establish the credibility of the indications as to whether these organisations have real ownership of, or have only leased, agricultural land. Thus, it may be reasonable to believe that the Constitutional Court has mistakenly stated that it is property and not a lease and that it has therefore abolished a limited legal decision in the former Article 19 of the Agricultural Lands Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u376	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u377	I'll finish right away. I'll finish the president right away, no fear. [[...]] What is our limit to the free economic initiative is therefore acceptable elsewhere in the other Member States of the European Union. Then I'll keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u378	Just wait for a moment at the speaker's stage. Do I quite understand, Comrade Kebrich, that you're giving up the debate? Then it is your turn to continue on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u379	Yeah. That's what I predicted, so I asked you first, if there's anything left.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u380	You're reading the mind of your colleague Kebrich. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u381	It should be borne in mind that agricultural land is limited in scope. Thus, in no case can agricultural organisations extend agricultural land indefinitely. What the Constitutional Court finds in its decision, because the area of Slovenia is limited or fortunately. The analysis of data over the last 50 years shows a worrying decrease in the volume of farmland and this trend also affects the food security of the inhabitants of Slovenia in the future. It is estimated that the country in our geoclimate zone needs to provide the necessary food per capita for approximately 3,000 square metres of farmland, i.e. fields, meadows or permanent crops. Statistical data show that between 1950 and 2000 the area of fields and gardens per inhabitant in Slovenia halved. From 2102 square meters to a total of 1118 square meters per inhabitant. Taking into account the European comparable statistics on agricultural land in use, i.e. those which are processed and uninhabited or in cultivation, the picture is much worse since in 2000 only 508,000 hectares of agricultural land were used from total 770. Of this there are only 171 hectares of fields and gardens, which means that there are only 861 square meters per inhabitant in use, if we go only to the fields and gardens. There were 86,000 farms in Slovenia after the census of agricultural holdings in 2000. Approximately 60% of the farms are in the size class of up to 5 hectares of land, and they process about one third of all agricultural land. Over the past ten years, the number of farms with less than three hectares of agricultural land has been decreasing and the number of farms with more than 5 hectares has increased. On average, a few hundred farmers process more than 20 hectares. On average, in European Union countries, farms are almost four times larger than the average Slovenian farm. So roughly the ratio is 18 hectares to the fifth. Also in neighbouring Austria, farms are on average three times larger than the Slovenian average. However, the individual members of the European Union differ considerably in the proportions of the individual size of the farm classes. In Denmark, Ireland, Great Britain, Luxembourg and France, farms with more than 20 hectares predominate, while in Slovenia, Austria, Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal they represent agricultural fences, mainly farms with less than 10 hectares. Let me get this straight. Agricultural land is not only a means to exercise the right of an individual, the owner of an agricultural land, but also a means to realize the interests of the community in order to ensure that all functions of ownership are realized. Agricultural land is a national wealth and an important but limited production factor. Transport with agricultural land has a decisive impact on the entire state of natural resources. For this reason, we believe that in Slovenia it should impose restrictions on the size of agricultural land, which, of course, cannot have retroactive effects, so it cannot affect denationalisation procedures. In our view, the Constitutional Court's decision is incomprehensible and illogical because it stems from the wrong assumption because the Constitutional Court has equalized the lease to the property of agricultural land. With restrictions on the transport of agricultural land in Novi Slovenija, we want to ensure the prudent exploitation of limited natural wealth and the service of agricultural land to the economic, social and environmental interests of the Slovenian community, and in particular to promote the development of family farms. This also ensures the development of one of the major economic sectors, including employment and the provision of income to an important part of the population, which depends on agricultural land or on its production. This also ensures the settlement of the Slovenian space and thus the preservation of the Slovenian cultural landscape. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I have run out of time, I propose that we do not confirm this decision of the parent working committee that we continue the procedure of this law and that we are all aware of what liberalisation means, full liberalisation in the field of agricultural transport. I'm telling you again. Most European countries do not know this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u382	Thank you. Colleague Lydia Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u383	Thank you very much. We will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the agricultural land law proposed by Mr Aloise Sok in the LDS Parliamentary Club. Not only will we support it because it has been given a negative opinion by both the government and our legislative and legal service, but especially because the so-called maximum amount has been decided twice by the Constitutional Court, not only once. Each time, it also decided that such a legal restriction was not in line with the principle of a free economic initiative, nor with the principle of a free economic initiative and the restriction of competition, as it created an unequal position among landowners. The adoption of such a law would be inconsistent with Articles 33 and 74 of the Constitution. According to the LDS Club, the adoption of such a law would also seriously violate the constitutional principle of equality before the law, since the applicant himself wrote that the land-size restriction would not have retroactive effect. Such a principle is quite contrary to the objectives set by the applicant himself. First of all, ensuring the nutritional safety of the people of Slovenia is possible mainly in large complexes and not in such complexes as we are currently dominated. Therefore, we cannot provide this food safety to a sufficient extent, given the opportunities we have. Another time. If the agricultural land is to be regarded as an irreplaceable national good and is therefore limited to 200 hectares to prevent the economic power of foreigners to collect all our companies, why does Comrade Sok not put under questions of the denationalisation law adopted by the predecessor of his New Slovenia and prepared by the government of Peterlet? After the law on denationalisation, we returned to Slovenia and returned thousands of hectares to foreigners, as they are the heirs of the nobles, the denationalising beneficiaries and foreigners. We are returning even larger complexes to the Vatican Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, which shows no interest in withdrawing from all these strong complexes, measured in thousands of hectares, in order to increase Slovenian farms, but even to claim compensation due to long denationalisation procedures. Therefore, according to Sok's proposal, our Slovenian companies and our farmers, who have the will and the ability to grow in larger complexes, should not do so, since they gave such a right at the beginning of our independence to someone else. There's no way to vote for such a slave law. That is why we will not support him in the LDS House of Members and will vote in favour of the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u384	Thank you. My friend Janko Weber, then my colleague Sušnik, and we're going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u385	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We do not support this law in the United Social Democrats Group, because we believe that it is unconstitutional and creates new injustices or differences between current owners and leasers of agricultural land or forests, and between owners and tenants who would become the owners of this law, and because it causes the fragmentation of agricultural land complexes, which certainly does not contribute to effective agricultural policy or to the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. The Constitutional Court has already ruled twice on the ground maximum and the reintroduction of this is, of course, the reason why we believe that this law, if adopted, is unconstitutional. Therefore, we cannot support these solutions. While we have an opinion that could be used to control agricultural land and forests in a different way than has been the case in the last period, all of our solutions that we have proposed have been rejected. Finally, the referendum on forests, with which we wanted to maintain the Slovenian forests, continued to be owned by the country in order to avoid fragmentation, but at the time this was rejected as inappropriate. Today, of course, this law is once again a solution that does not lead to the preservation of both agricultural land and forests in an appropriate function. I can also say that the resolution of agricultural policy and land policy in a way that we are trying to take over farm areas owned and processed by agricultural enterprises and give them to natural persons or farmers is a possible solution, but it does not lead to any solution, because we are dealing only with those lands that are already treated and are not problematic and are only a fragmentation of agricultural areas, which is not the right solution. If the Law on Change and Supplementing the Agricultural Lands Act were to say that unprocessed agricultural land could begin to start, and these were, in particular, those that were fragmented by natural persons, then of course we could talk about getting closer to some land policy that would lead to the Slovenian agricultural area being treated well and that the landscape would also look cultural and, of course, friendly to anyone who would come to Slovenia. Well, unfortunately, this law deals only with how to take land from agricultural enterprises, to limit them. Of course, these are not development-oriented solutions, so we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u386	Another show. You have the last word, Comrade Sušnik. Presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the necessity of legal regulation and support the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act, which was tabled by the MEP of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Alojz Sok. This brings us to more grief over the cruel and sad facts. The fact is, after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we have lost the highest degree of sovereignty and competence in the field of agriculture. However, we have entered the European Union with the worst preparations in the field of agriculture, which poses an additional risk to the loss of Slovenian land for the transfer of Slovenian land into foreign hands and therefore we support such a legal proposal. We see the blame for the poor agricultural situation in the Slovenian Democratic Party mainly in poor agricultural policy, which has all too often been subject to pressure from various lobbying. This is how we face excessive standardisation today, overstandards in the area of sanitary veterinary services and original and unreasonable arrangements, which are a heavy burden for Slovenian farmers and an even greater risk of leaving the country to foreigners when facing these pressures. I cannot help but mention some specific features that further exacerbate the agricultural situation. Thus I would mention the original medical certificates in internal transport, and they are our specificities, which pose a major obstacle to the development of agriculture and livestock, the unreasonable treatment of slaughterhouse waste and the resulting high cost of slaughter, the taxation of direct payments in the field of agriculture. Despite the steady decline in the economic situation of the Slovenian farmer and despite the daily decline of 8 farms, a law was passed which taxed direct payments in the field of agriculture. Finally, the growth of the agricultural administration must be mentioned. In 1992, there were 96 people at the Ministry of Agriculture at the end of 2003 819. According to data available on government websites, 899 people are currently employed. We're recording 80 increments in 2004. All of this, and the fact that the applicant is still right when he claims that agricultural land is a national wealth and a strategically important factor reflected in the degree of production capacity and food security, leads us to support the marriage proposal. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fully agree with the objectives and principles of the legislative proposal and the solutions to ensure that the working land and forests remain owned by the Slovenian farmer, who will manage and maintain within the family farm the production capacity of agricultural areas, agricultural land, which will ensure the economic management of Slovenian forests and the use and usefulness of Slovenian forests. If this proposal is rejected, there will be a dangerous void in this area, which will inevitably lead towards the transfer of ownership of Slovenian land and Slovenian forests to foreign ownership. Slovenia was preserved by Slovenian farmer and Slovenian word. Even and especially after our accession to the European Union, it will be very important how we deal with our land. It is our duty to do all we can to ensure the existence of our people. Therefore, it is still important to adopt such legislation that will prevent and prevent any transition of our land and our forests into foreign hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u388	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. What do you suggest? A vacation? No, I suggest we finish the session, please. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Once again, I will ask for peace in the Chamber so that there will be no misunderstandings in the decision-making process, because the proposal for a decision is that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. Comrade Sok wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I take this right to take advantage of this three minutes as a proposaler on behalf of the Group of Members and to explain my vote. We will, of course, vote against this decision. We are aware of what the abolition of the land maximum means for the country of Slovenia. And I am sure that if not today, this law will have to be rectified in the near future. But as for some statements, I must say that denationalisation, which has nothing to do with this law, has nothing to do with it, because if the law were adopted, it cannot act retroactively. Denationalisation is, of course, a result of nationalisation, Mrs Majnikov, but it is not caused by the Demos government or, if you want, by the Peterlet government. So, ask around. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u390	Don't argue with the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u391	I can't, because it's just a tease. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u392	Because I can't give my colleague a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u393	It's a simple setup. And to say that the Roman Catholic Church [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u394	Please don't argue!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u395	which all of us who have been baptized have been cancelled. [[...]] Which one of you has given up the process of denationalization? This law, as adopted, is written on the skin of shareholders in both agriculture and forestry. And the first opportunity, when the country decides to start selling the agricultural land managed by the agricultural land fund today, will be used to get these stock companies out of the lease to own over Slovenian agricultural land. This, of course, is not good for the promotion and maintenance of the family farm in Slovenia, even when the common agricultural policy is changing, which will be directed towards the future by accelerating small and medium-sized agricultural establishments. I think we have a chance to correct this mistake that we've made once before today. However, unfortunately, such as the mood in this national assembly, there is of course no hope at this time of any kind to make a wise and wise decision in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u396	Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u397	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal for a decision because I feel that the law has not been tabled in order to be adopted, but in order not to be adopted. The reason is as follows. If we wanted to achieve the effects, as noted by colleague Sok, with a social and economic function, these effects would be known within a hundred years, perhaps a hundred years. Why? Transport with agricultural land for those who buy up to 200 hectares is unlimited or unlimited today. If mortgages were to be distributed on agricultural land owned by agricultural undertakings, they would come to each farmer half a hectare. It means we couldn't achieve anything. We need an increase of 20 to 50 times more and the effects are no more. If we were to divide, I don't know, under any other criteria, maybe we'd get a more real number, maybe five hectares of farm enlargement, which is nothing again. And it is common to deceive and manipulate farmers in the last days and in these laws, such as the tax speech, that we will destroy all the small farmers who will not pay the tax at all. The same story here in this law, which says that we will not know how to increase the land and the average of the farm, but when we do not actually increase anything by this law. Over the next hundred years, perhaps for a few hectares on average, based on this bill. Of course, there are other policies, other agricultural policies, which will be the ones and only ones that will allow for the expansion of farms by combining parcels and farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Look. In all of this it is essentially the case that the scenario of the non-economic exploitation of Slovenian forests continues to take place. The implementation of this law would prevent 14 forest holdings to which this country has entrusted the management and exploitation of Slovenian forests, by the way, without any mention of a valuable buyer and without any mention of a valuable concession, and in this area the country is losing at least three to four billion tolars annually. Opposition to this law goes in this direction because it would practically prevent 350 000 hectares of the highest quality Slovenian forests from being owned by these 14 forest holdings, forestry companies. This is a dangerous, very dangerous matter. Any purchase of a legal person who will own large Slovenian forests, to mention that in this case half of these forests are now in the management of two forest holdings in the area of Kočev and Postojna, would mention, at the final stage, the transfer also to foreign ownership of these large forests and to Slovenia some other important forests. On the other hand, they could strengthen the Slovenian farmer by transferring these forests in the form of a lease to a Slovenian farmer and thereby substantially strengthening it. Unfortunately. That's not gonna happen. Bad story, bad thing or bad way of managing Slovenian forests will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u400	We will decide on the proposal for a decision. This is: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Lands, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. We're making a decision. That's the last vote tonight. 58 present, 43 to, 13 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] The decision is adopted. Thank you. I'll see you at the next meeting next week.
