ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have a nice, good day! I begin the continuation of the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ferri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič noble, Jelko Kacin, mag. Blaze Kavčič, Rudolf Mogue, Aloise Peterle. Maria Pozsonec, and Igor Štemberger. Mrs. Pozsoncheva is among us. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law - EPA 702 / III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution by means of a draft constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate a procedure to amend the proposed articles of the Constitution and to postpone the discussion on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission to one of the following meetings. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to further explain the draft constitutional law. I call on the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Interior, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Thank you. Nicely greeted! In its opening remarks, I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed such constitutional changes in the field of local self-government, which would mainly follow the European constitutional arrangements for this issue and lead to the establishment of a country, i.e. the process of establishing the provinces, so that the establishment of the provinces is compulsory and at the same time binding. The aim that we followed was that the provinces would also be created in Slovenia throughout the territory and another important assumption would be fulfilled, so that they could be established at the same time, with the law at the same time. In the Constitutions of European countries, local communities are, at the second level, a mandatory component of their constitutional arrangements, about the same as those of the municipalities. It is important to stress, however, that local communities do not only concern local self-government units - of course, this element is extremely important - but at the same time it is also important that the internal members of the State as such be considered an important issue of a constitutional nature. Local communities, in particular those at the second level of local self-government, which is our province, are also extremely important bases for implementation, a priority, a primary task of local self-government, and at the same time a task of state administration. The government proposal contained three articles. We believe that changes to all three articles are urgently needed and that is why the government has also insisted on this, we could say, a comprehensive proposal, while at the same time the Constitutional Commission has drawn up its views on this government proposal. If I could just summarize for a moment. This is an amendment to Article 121, which is also supported by the Constitutional Commission in its position, in the same text as proposed by the Government. It is then a matter of amending Article 140 of the Constitution, where the views of the Constitutional Commission have come to a minor correction. In particular, in the second paragraph, it is a matter of transferring to the municipality the performance of individual tasks, provided that funds are also provided for that purpose. Article 143 of the Constitution, which somehow amended the Government's proposal, or in those positions, emphasises that the law establishing the area, the seat and the names of the provinces should be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. This article is also an amended or proposed position in which the municipal councils of the municipalities should also be called upon to give their opinion before deciding on the establishment of a particular province in the area where the province is established. These are kind of, you could say, positions that complement the government's proposal. However, the government considers that this proposal is comprehensive and that, if I may stress it, it allows the establishment of the provinces as a binding establishment of the provinces, at the same time binding, at the same time and throughout the territory of Slovenia. So, once again, let me say that, of course, the views of the Constitutional Commission, which have been formulated, are also supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft constitutional law was examined by the Constitutional Commission and put in place a position to be adopted at the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will first be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Republic of Slovenia do they need a second level of local communities or do we not need one? This is a question that we have been asked since the beginning of our efforts to change the Constitution. The fact is that the basic decisions on the provinces have already been adopted by the Constitution, and therefore, in our Group of Members, we do not believe that the Constitution needs to be amended, but that, on the basis of constitutional provisions, we should adopt a law on the formation of the provinces. We are aware of the need for polycentric development of Slovenia, especially since we are increasingly clear that the country is centralising, especially in the financial field. It is also important that when establishing the provinces, the government is unable to present to us what powers will be transferred to the provinces and how the provinces will be financed. For us, the process of local self-government at the first stage has not yet been completed, as it is in this mandate that we have witnessed the process of establishing new municipalities. A total of 50 proposals have been tabled, but the political machine has actually stifled all efforts. What country is Slovenia supposed to be? Is a country where the provinces will merely replace the municipalities and instead of the local self-government of the municipalities, self-government in the provinces should be enforced? We are convinced that the congregation must remain at the heart of local self - government. In the first place, the reform of local self-government should be completed, thus fulfilling the principle of the democratic and administrative structure of Slovenia. The emphasis should be on administrative reform and administrative decentralisation. During the 12 years, there was not enough political will to change anything. The government could already, within the framework of the existing legal regime, introduce a law and thus create a legal basis for the formation of the landscapes. However, another parallel needs to be highlighted. In 1999, a law on the promotion of coherent regional development was adopted which set up organisational and financial instruments from 12 statistical regions, using them as a geographical framework for the technical implementation of this activity. However, the territorial framework did not mean enough. Because there were no operators of the action, only this was carried out from the municipalities and from the Republic, which was not successful. Therefore, in the parliamentary procedure, there is a new law, a proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, which is intended to put the development regions in place by reshaping 14 and 13 development regions from 12 statistical regions. However, the government should answer a number of questions, which remain unanswered. While the bill does not address the issue of administrative and political decentralisation, which is expected to be brought by the provinces, it establishes and strengthens regional mechanisms to promote development, which will also be needed by future provinces. The proposed institutional upgrade in the regions is to be carried out in accordance with the landscape design project. The solutions contained in the draft law complement the province-building project in an important segment of regional development, which is supposed to be one of the key original competences of future provinces. The project to promote coherent regional development and the landscape design project is expected to be substantively coordinated. This raises a general question as to why the Minister for Regional Development is avoiding the issue, or whether the borders of the development regions are also drawing the borders of the provinces. With such inconsistencies, it misleads mayors who in their areas are acceleratingly signing letters of intent and recalculating in which region they would receive more resources, which gives the impression that the projects of the regions and the provinces are individual and independent. Here is the point where the government does not want to disclose the cards and where it misleads Members. The government insists that we need the provinces, we should cover all of Slovenia. According to Article 143 of the Constitution, only neighbouring municipalities and only on individual issues could be linked and the provinces should have the same tasks and legal status as the State is supposed to grant them with the Constitution and the law, and the provinces should also be transferred to certain national tasks, which would constitute the application of the principle of subsidiarity. At the same time, the provinces are also expected to represent territorial units for the implementation of the national administration at the first stage. In this way, the province is expected to become a vehicle for development in space and the Government believes that it will also facilitate links with the European Union, including through more successful candidateing for funds from the Union Structural Funds to promote regional development, as well as for cross-border cooperation between local and regional communities. It is therefore necessary to say clearly and loudly what the government wants to silence, that after all, it is very important to connect the municipalities to the development regions, because these are the steps for integration into the provinces. And since there is a lot of dissatisfaction among municipalities across Slovenia about the proposal for a law on coherent regional development concerning the placement in a specific development region, in our New Slovenia Group we strongly reject the proposed changes to the Constitution regarding the formation of the provinces proposed by the government. We want the landscapes to be formed from below, that citizens and citizens will tell which province they want to live in, and that mayors on municipal councils at the establishment of development regions and landscapes say that the borders of the development regions certainly also map the boundaries of future provinces. The project should be planned and run simultaneously, coordinated and with the knowledge of all those affected, otherwise it will cause a lot of discontent, anger and resistance. It is very important that the population already knows in advance where the centres of the development region and the province will be, because gravity to a particular centre is usually drawn and deviations from the actual situation are not good if we want their optimal and effective functioning. The formal and territorial form of regionalisation in Slovenia is our internal issue, as the representatives of the European Union have repeatedly stressed, and therefore their recommendations are not binding on us. Is the formation of regions crucial to the acquisition of funds from the European Union funds? We believe that projects are much more important than quality projects and appropriate integration between economic operators, as well as the professional preparation of projects and the fulfilment of the required conditions. We therefore object to the fact that the country would simply lay down by law the boundaries of the provinces, as it has prescribed for the development regions, and therefore oppose the changes to the Constitution in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We Slovenians have historically identified ourselves on the basis of historical lands to which we belonged throughout the Middle and New Ages until the end of World War I, when we have territorially constricted our national space into one political unit, which became an integral part of the then Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, until the breakup of the second, of Titus Yugoslavia. We did not think about regionalism at the time of the establishment of our own country, and yet the feelings of former countries' belongings among people remained. The past has given us a seal of regional diversity, which was especially after the independence of the thinking generator and initiatives for the establishment of landscapes, which would not only have symbolic but also have functional value. In this respect, the Government proposed amendments to the Constitution in 2001 which would allow the establishment of provinces by the State and not by the municipalities, as envisaged by the existing constitution. There was a wide range of debates and views, both legal and political, and it took place at national and local level. Such an in-depth analysis of the constitutional proposal to amend the Constitution is absolutely worthwhile, as accelerated decentralisation is among the common values in Europe. The urgent consequence of globalisation and sustainable development is the process of localisation. This process is inappropriate, necessary and useful in ensuring the state's performance with people living in a given area and, on the other hand, we allow people to decide on public matters that are being touched daily. The main obstacle that the new constitutional arrangements have not yet been regulated after 12 years is certainly the text of Articles 121, 141 and 143 of the Constitution, which define the province as a form of voluntary international cooperation, for which so far there has been no particular interest. Thus, the State of Slovenia cannot transfer, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, to a lower level of decision-making of all those State powers, to the provinces which can be carried out at a lower level. There are many consequences to the provinces or to their territorial arrangements. By delaying the regionalisation process, developmental differences between the various geographical areas are deepening in Slovenia, thus preventing the equality of integration of these parts into Europe. The unity of appropriate constitutional arrangements in the design of landscapes prevents cooperation with neighbouring and other countries. It is limited to drawing on and using the European Union's Structural Development Funds. The number of landscapes, the location of individual landscapes and the identification of areas affect all further development of the administration or its territorial reorganisation. Even so, the regionalisation process must no longer delay, and the change of constitution is just the first step towards it. The regions are one of the foundations of democratic states, and this is the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The problem of creating regions is in the face of existing constitutional arrangements, the existence of Article 143 and the insurmountable ones mentioned above. In the DeSUS Group, we have advocated the establishment of the provinces from the outset, and we agree, on the other hand, that the preparation of the legislative proposal would require caution in order for the provinces to have the right content and that the issue of financial resources is extremely important. The proposal of coalition parties is more consistent on these issues. Because we believe that democracy is essential for the country's democracy, that democracy works and that it is protected in units closer to people, we are in favour of the DeSUS Group's proposal to change the constitution, which would allow for the formation of the provinces. We stress, however, that we are still working in DeSUS to reach a broad political consensus on the issue of landscape design, with the objective of a solution that will be acceptable not only for today but especially for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will present us the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! From the discussions so far, it could be concluded that at least a majority is needed to adopt amendments to the Constitution to ensure the introduction of the provinces and thus decentralisation of the country, to support the proposed amendments and to support the proposal for views that we will discuss and decide on today. In addition to this majority, there are several other Members and Members who are not disfavoured with the introduction of the provinces, at least according to the ruling, but who are not in favour of the amendment or the proposal for positions adopted by the Constitutional Commission. This could be understood as opposed to taking decisions without the two-thirds support of all Members of Parliament and with the qualified majority of municipalities and a number of people in the envisaged provinces. Therefore, the possibility in the Constitution would be written down and the majority required for adoption or amendments to the Constitution would be prescribed for implementation. This only means that, at this point, we have postponed the country's decentralisation requirements for an indefinite period of time to the future. And if we were already able to reach the required two-thirds majority, we would already be facing obstacles in individual local communities in the next step. However, if this required number of municipalities were to be able to achieve this because of the fragmentation of the country, a conflict of interest could lead to an obstacle in the local community, namely the one linked to the largest population. This proposal for the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats was not acceptable, so we voted against such a proposal for a position on the Constitutional Commission, and we supported the proposal for a position to be taken today. Nor is this the best solution; it is a compromise to provide the necessary majority to change the constitution. For it is also written in this position that the province shall be established by law, which shall establish the territory, the seat and the name of the province, and which shall be adopted by the assembly of the two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. This time, therefore, it is not only a postponement of the decision by a majority necessary to amend the Constitution, but a quorum is reduced to the number necessary for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which of course means that the provinces cannot be introduced by the ordinary majority necessary for the adoption of laws. At the same time, it should be noted that, in the presence of all Members and Members in the decision-making process of this Act, this would again constitute the majority prescribed for the adoption of the Constitution. This proposal also does not exclude municipalities in the process of introducing landscapes. Before deciding on the establishment of the province, the National Assembly must call on the municipal councils to give their opinion. However, it is true that the opinion is not binding. This can, of course, mean that some of the negative opinions in the legislative process will not be taken into account. At the same time, it is a safeguard that one of the municipal councils that opposes the proposed province cannot prevent the establishment of this province. A number of negative opinions from each area of the proposed province will certainly signal to the legislator that it is preparing a solution that is not in line with the interests and wishes of the inhabitants of the region. Then, of course, if everything else fails, political responsibility will arise. This is not to be ignored by the local self-government committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Council of State consists of a majority, 22 representatives of local interests, which warns that the introduction of a qualified majority, two-thirds or absolute, for the law governing the establishment of the provinces can result in an excessive number of provinces. At the same time, it considers that the good solution introduced by the participation of the municipalities in establishing the provinces is, of course, in the hope that the legislator will comply with them. At the same time, while recognising geographical, historical and sociological criteria, they underline the importance of the economic criterion in determining the conditions for establishing the province. The desire to establish the provinces is present in Slovenia from the very change of the political system At the time of our adoption of our Constitution, we have been working on the United List of Social Democrats to make regional regulation a mandatory component of constitutional regulation. That this is necessary is demonstrated by individual local initiatives after the establishment of the provinces. At the same time, there is also a so-called project of more coherent regional development, for which there is a legitimate fear that it will break in the determination of so-called development regions. If we had provinces, of course, there would be no such problems now. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we have decided to support the efforts of all, including experts, to change the constitution and enable the formation of landscapes by law, which will fully regulate regionalisation in Slovenia. This will create landscapes as autonomous local communities that will carry out the tasks of wider local importance beyond the capacity of municipalities and at the same time the matters of regional importance that are defined by law. In addition, they carried out a certain part of the tasks of the State Administration. The adoption of a law that will fully regulate the establishment, jurisdiction, financing and organisation of the provinces will be possible. This would therefore mean that such a secondary local government, which is not the right term, will not only be limited to inter-ethnic cooperation. Such an established province will be an intermediate rate between the government and the municipalities. The principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation and better regional development will therefore be applied. These are the contents that are close to us in the United List of Social Democrats, and we will also support their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that certain provinces in our country could already have. It is true, however, that if these were identified and the emphasis was on certain areas established on the basis of an existing constitutional dictatorship, there would be, at least after our assessment, a selective transfer of tasks by the State and the municipalities, on the other hand, and, more likely, a selective approach to the financing of these delegated tasks to individual new provinces. At the same time, we estimate that if the provinces were established on the basis of the existing provisions of the Constitution, they would crush Slovenia and leave many parts of Slovenia outside the province. And it is also very important that, according to our assessment, this is a question of simultaneousity. The proposal for a constitutional law, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, gives us a positive answer to three questions. Firstly, draft Article 121, or amendment, has a positive impact if adopted, in particular in the area of deconcentration and decentralisation. It is true, however, that if we want to follow closely these two positive objectives, which are still necessary in our country, we should leave the text out of words, so that the second paragraph reads "with the law or on the basis of the law or on the basis of it, they will be given public authority to perform the tasks of the state administration." So, as far as the specific provision is concerned, it would make sense to leave out the word "may". As far as the other positive features of the government proposal are concerned, it would change the integral area of the Republic of Slovenia, which would mean that the provinces would be established on every piece of Slovenian land and there would be no danger, as was possible under the existing constitution, so that certain municipalities would be involved and certain municipalities would not. Well, the third positive feature that we consider to be following the law is the issue of simultaneousity. If we approach the establishment of the landscapes on the basis of changes to the Constitution or constitutional law, we would say that our assessment and assessment of the proposer would result in the simultaneous occurrence of this, and after 12 years, we could almost say, phenomena. In spite of the pursuit of certain positive objectives, and in particular on the basis of the negative experience of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the functioning of local communities, it would make sense that certain changes would also be within the framework of Articles 140 and 143. In the second amendment, i.e. in the amendment to Article 140, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State may, by law, transfer to the local self-governance communities the performance of individual tasks under national jurisdiction and must also provide them with funds. To the extent that the establishment of a strong province would indeed be intended, a province which, together with the other provinces, would represent partners in the dialogue on the one hand at least with the Republic authorities and, on the other hand, with the power of the European institutions, it would also make sense to leave out the word "may" in this dictatorship and to supplement or add the word "appropriate" or "sufficient". Thus, Article 140 of the Constitution reads: "The State shall, by law, transfer to self-governance local communities the performance of individual tasks under State jurisdiction." Thus, in the first part of the new constitutional material, it would be laid down that the State is obliged to do so, in particular in order to provide for the needs of the province. Because, if we allow the country to choose whether it will transfer or not, we will get to the existing situation, that is, the situation that has been taking place in Slovenia for 12 years and depends mainly on political will. However, according to our assessment, it is totally unacceptable that the political will, either within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or within this national assembly, dictates the pace and purpose of the establishment of the province. However, in the second part of the sentence, which speaks to provide funds for the performance of these delegated tasks, it would be more appropriate, according to our assessment, that we also define in the constitution a form of limitation or quantity, in terms of adequate or sufficient means. It is likely that this will be one of the main tasks of the future law on landscapes and, on the other hand, it is likely that the lack of resources is a fact, or we estimate that the fact will be that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will of course be "sparing" in this area and that the province will not wish to provide us with those resources for which the provinces estimate that they are necessary for the performance of the so-called delegated tasks. According to our assessment, by amendment, with two amendments, as proposed in Article 140 of the Slovenian National Party, they would generally or qualitatively avoid such future issues, which will take place in the implementation of the said matter. However, in Article 143 below, it should be pointed out that at least the government proposal follows a higher quality dictatorship than was the case in Article 143. It would also be possible, or impossible, but it would only make sense in the second paragraph, which now reads: "The province is established by law to carry out local matters of wider importance and to carry out certain matters of regional importance by law" in order to transform the province into a plural, that is, "the provinces are established by law." According to our assessment, this would follow the initial pursuit of the goal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the simultaneous establishment of the provinces. As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that the provinces could already have the political will to do so within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far. On the other hand, it is important to emphasise that a much easier path to establishing the landscapes will of course be ensured by the existing constitutional change, and we must not forget the fact that, despite today's adoption of these constitutional changes, this still does not mean that we will have the landscape. We are afraid that the element of political view of the provinces, their territoriality, delegated tasks, and, of course, equally important, of financing, stems solely from the political motivation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will not oppose the proposed changes within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. However, we sincerely hope that today's debate on the changes in the area of landscapes will provide a better answer to the question of delegated tasks. First time. Another time. With regard to the provision of financial resources for the performance of, at least, their own tasks or transferred from a lower level of local self-government, i.e. by municipalities, or for tasks to be transferred to the provinces from a higher level, i.e. by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After the discussion, we would also like to know the answer to the question of the approximate geographical design of the province, and in particular the answer to the two parts which I have highlighted twice today, i.e. the powers and funding of those two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It is a pleasure for a person to see with what willingness, enthusiasm, both the government and the parties want, but we want to enable the provinces of Slovenia. But of course, as always, the devil is in detail. To date, the debate on the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution suggests that we are still, in fact, far from the national consensus on the establishment of the provinces. The Constitution now in force in this Article provides that municipalities shall decide independently on the integration into the provinces to which the State shall transfer certain matters of State jurisdiction only in agreement with the municipalities. The law, however, only regulates the principles and criteria for the transfer of those powers. So is the current constitution. However, the government’s proposal or the proposal of government parties is in total contradiction with this, and it provides that the state will establish the provinces by law, which does not need any agreement of the municipalities, but is satisfied with their opinion. Whatever it is. The area, seat and name of the province would, following this proposal, lay down a law adopted by the State Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present and the powers of the law adopted by the general majority in the national assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes an amendment to establish the provinces by law with two-thirds consent of municipalities where at least two thirds of the population of the province lives. However, the organisation and financing of the provinces and the transfer of powers would be governed by a law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of all Members. So the National Assembly would accept not only the borders and the names or centres of the provinces, but also the most important matters, but financing, of course, is the organisation of the jurisdiction of the provinces with a two-thirds majority. And why should congregations participate in determining the number of provinces, its borders, its names, and its centers? First of all, it's because it requires imagery and political wisdom. Where we force the congregations into some artificial form, we will get a land that humans will not long accept as their own. Such a beautiful landscape will not come to life, people will not feel at home in it, and there is no way that we will be able to awaken our zeal for its development. Because of a tactless approach, such a policy can only be faced with non-productive resistance in the local population. The European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by Slovenia in 1996, also points out the high level of respect for the will of the local population, which requires that local authorities' borders be determined, if possible, even by a referendum. The signatories note, quote, that "the local authorities are one of the main foundations of each democratic regime", and state, inter alia, that "this requires the existence of local authorities democratically placed decision-making bodies and with a high degree of autonomy regarding their competences." Thus, the European Charter of Local Self-Government speaks of all forms of local self-government, not only about the municipalities, but also about the provinces. The Constitutions of most European countries provide a great degree of co-decision among the local population in addressing these issues. The German Constitution, for example, according to which ours have been followed, stipulates that the definition or change of land borders should take account of the opinion of the countries and even say that "die betroffene is a land sind zuhören". This means that not only must these countries be asked, not only listened to, but also listened to in a literal translation. To obey a human decision, as they call it, "volksentscheid." The question that we often hear on the government side is whether the required consent of two-thirds of the municipalities is indeed an insurmountable obstacle to the establishment of the provinces. This is what the proponents of the government proposal argue, even some constitutional law experts in the section of the Constitutional Commission. The consent of the congregation is given, according to our proposal, if at least 51% of the municipal councillors voted in favour of the proposal. And if, in the region, two thirds of the municipalities in which municipal councillors vote in agreement would have to do so, then it would theoretically be assumed that agreement to establish the province has already been reached if a good third of all the saints in the region voted for the province. However, if the government is unable to prepare such a proposal for regionalisation of Slovenia to support at least two thirds of the municipalities in each region, that is at least a good third of the councillors in the whole region, then it is better not to embark on this project. More importantly, the question is whether the law governing the organisation of jurisdiction and the financing of the province should be adopted by a two-thirds majority, as proposed in the amendment. First things first. The organisation, of course, determines what the regional electoral system should be. Will the representatives of the municipalities be present in the regional council? Is the regional chief going to vote directly? What kind of power will he have? And so on. Second question, the question of the jurisdiction of the regions. Whether the region as its founder will plan and carry out not only the activities of utilities, regional deposits and cleaning facilities, but also economic development, secondary education, basic health care, as well as the activities of administrative units. Governance of state, that's regional property and so on. And third, the issue of funding. Will the transfer of tasks from country to country be followed by the transfer of funds? Will a separate financial resource be provided to the province? How will the balance between rich and poor provinces be settled? And so on. This is therefore an extremely important issue. They will be answered by a law which, according to the Government's proposal, will be adopted by a simple majority in the National Assembly. However, according to our proposal, this law is supposed to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. For the first time, because it is necessary to ensure the widest possible impact of all parts of Slovenia when adopting this law. All the future landscapes. Both central and peripheral, both rich and poor. Therefore, it is also necessary for those Members, from the peripheral provinces of Slovenia, to be given an appropriate weight to vote. This can only be done by requiring a two-thirds majority vote to adopt the law. A two-thirds majority is also needed because it is a law that will define the basic tasks and rights of the province. The most important provisions on the organisation and functioning of the province, provisions which are of importance at the level of the provincial constitution. Such provisions cannot in any way be subjected to easy voting in the daily policy of each government. These are provisions which must represent a stable backbone of landscape operations. Therefore, these provisions must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the national assembly. Only such a land, based on a strong, two-thirds law, can be sufficiently stable, independent, and only such one can characterise the decentralisation of the state and the vertical division of power. In view of the persistent rejection of at least a minimum co-decision between municipalities and a two-thirds decision on the most basic regional law, there is clearly a desire for centralist control of the provinces, which could only become an extension of the country's time frame, only reflecting the current political games of ruling parties. Of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot agree with such a policy. We are confident that our amendment will be supported by another party, as well as by a number of members of government parties, because we cannot imagine that most of the members of this national assembly would be so easily supported by government centralism. After all, the landscapes should be written more on the skin of the inhabitants to whom they are intended, and not so much on the skin of some gentlemen from government palaces. However, if the amendment is not adopted, of course we cannot support the amendments to these articles of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party has actively participated in the work of the Constitutional Commission in the field of constitutional change in the case of provinces. We are aware that the provinces in Slovenia will not fully come to life if the process of establishing the provinces does not proceed on the basis of co-decision between municipalities or citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, according to the SLS Group, it is most important that the procedures for setting up and the method of financing and transferring powers are laid down in the law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of Members and Members present. Indeed, the establishment of the provinces is not and must not only be a project of the current ruling majority, but must be based on a higher political consensus. The fact is that, from a public financial point of view, the most sensitive issue is the financing of the landscapes and that is why no policy should be allowed to impose any substantial additional burden on public finances through the country-building project. The State will have to give up its piece of cake, both financially and in the field of human resources. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that such an approach is necessary if we really want to improve the functioning of the country through the landscape project and, of course, the performance of those urgent local tasks that can be more effectively carried out within the province. From this point of view, we have also drafted an amendment to the position of the Constitutional Commission in the parliamentary group, and we have included the importance of the process of establishing the provinces in addition to the issue of financing. It is justified, therefore, to fear that the establishment of the landscapes could only be its own purpose; it is probably not the goal of anyone. It is clear that regional and regional organisation in Slovenian history has no tradition, but there is also a mentality about the control of the country's landscapes. This role has already been assigned to municipalities and not to countries by the existing constitutional arrangements. As such arrangements have not been successful, it is necessary to find a suitable compromise which will provide the municipality, as the basic cell of local self-government, with an appropriate role. The municipality is and must remain a fundamental institution of local self-government; the province as such cannot replace it; it can only complement it. The province will be an upgrade to the first degree of local self-government. This fact must also be followed by decisions in this National Assembly. We must not forget, however, the possibility that municipalities in the so-called border area would be able to establish a referendum at the border of a given area of the province with another province, which means that citizens of the border municipality could, within a certain time frame, comment at the referendum on which the province would, of course, prefer to belong. Such proposed regulation is established in the German system. In fact, the German system offers the possibility of changing the borders of the provinces by referendum. At the same time, the following fear must also be highlighted: to avoid a new form of centralisation in the interest of decentralisation. I am thinking, above all, of the possible attempts to centralise the administrative units of the expositions of ministries, which are a vital service for citizens, where citizens should regulate their life issues; this is not the way they should be organised. As a result, this good historical experience should be preserved. In doing so, allow me to point out, in fact, when adopting amendments to the Constitution and the proposal for a coherent regional development law, the opinion of the parliamentary group that the process of establishing political landscapes or coherent regional development should be pursued simultaneously. In fact, regions or landscapes that were exclusively political and not developmental would not achieve their purpose. To conclude, allow me just to present the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to the position of the Constitutional Commission. In fact, a fundamental change on the basis of our amendment to the basic position is that the process of establishing the province, and in particular the way in which municipalities finance and participate in the decision-making of the area established by the name of the province, would be governed by a law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members present. In fact, the most important question is how will the method of financing be defined, what will be the country-building process. It is therefore necessary to reach a higher consensus here. In fact, we only establish the provinces once, so it is very important what the birth of these provinces will be like. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would not be thrilled that the provinces would be violently defined a specific area of citizens and citizens or municipalities that citizens would not accept. Indeed, such content must be defined in this law, so that citizens and citizens will accept the province as theirs and, of course, the province will also be a developmental one. If the province is merely political, it will not come to life, and this is not in the interest of the Slovenian People's Party and we will not support attempts in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. A presentation of the position of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec will introduce him to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! On behalf of the national communities, I would like to contribute to this constitutional matter as follows. I would explain why it would be necessary to adopt an amendment to the third position of the Constitutional Commission, which reads: "In the text of the third position of the Constitutional Commission, which sets out the new content of Article 143 of the Constitution, the following new third paragraph is added: The municipalities in which the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities live form a province with special status. The third and fourth paragraphs so far become fourth and fifth paragraphs." This will ensure that this content is further addressed, in particular on a professional basis. And why do we think this is right and necessary? On the basis of changes to the Constitution towards decentralisation of the country, it will be imperative to define precisely the powers and functions of the newly created provinces. As foreseen by the current regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, the protection of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities is carried out at territorial level. As a result of this fact, it will be necessary to have a different status from that of the other provinces, which will be covered by national mixed areas. Therefore, specific, original and delegated powers relating to the situation and rights of national communities in that part which is defined as a national area. This is not only a need, but also justified in various documents. The basis for this is also found in international documents taken over and ratified by the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the protection of minorities. Let's say the Omniq Agreement, the London Memorandum, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Nationals, the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, the European Framework Convention on the Cross-border Cooperation of Territorial Communities or Authorities. And we could keep going. So I'd like to ask for your support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree with the proposaler that the constitution, as it is today, does not allow for the actual establishment of the provinces. This does not mean, however, that we can simply, without adequate guarantees for the future, delete Article 143 of the Constitution and leave the establishment of the provinces to a stalemate. The fact is that only the deletion of Article 143 has wider legal implications and opens the way for different arrangements in this area, i.e. the establishment of landscapes. So we need a position on how to establish the provinces in the future when Article 143 is deleted. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we are convinced that the establishment of a second level of local self-government is too important for Slovenia and its citizens to be left out on this subject or not to be asked for an opinion or asked for an opinion from us Members in a sufficient majority to make such a decision. So we think we need to take care of each other. The deletion of Article 143 must be accompanied by a provision which will provide for the establishment of the provinces on the basis of either the participation of citizens or the entry into the constitutional law of the way and, in particular, the necessary majority for the adoption of the law on the provinces. We believe that the two-thirds presence of Members is the lowest threshold beyond which we cannot, so we support this compromise solution. At the same time, we hope that the National Assembly will put something into the opinion of local communities in setting up the provinces. The fact is that their opinion is non-binding and that means that we must show a great deal of legal and political culture. It would also make sense to wait for a concrete decision on the provinces until the next reference to the National Assembly; in the pre-election period, a number of things could happen. The story of the establishment of the congregations, which we know has ended, can be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Tone Anderlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Your Honor! By initiating a constitutional change procedure, the National Assembly eliminated the dilemma as to whether or not we must change the Constitution in order to create a second level of local self-government. We are primarily referring to article 143 of the Constitution here. The professional aspects of this issue have been dealt with extensively in all the past ten years after the adoption of the then or now existing constitution. In the professional debates, as well as in the concrete efforts to establish the legal framework, i.e. to draft the law, it was clear that we would not be able to do so if we did not first eliminate or delete Article 143 from the Constitution, or even more, that we would also amend paragraphs 121 and 140, which refer to the transfer of functions to a different level. This has, of course, taken place in various ways in these years, even so far as the Commission of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government has already taken the view that this must be done. All those wonders of how to go in this direction are superfluous, for everything was clear by the decision of the appropriate commission in the National Assembly. Some political parties have, of course, insisted, despite professional arguments, that it is possible to establish the provinces already on the basis of an existing constitutional standard, as well as that it is necessary to go along the way for the municipalities to decide and also establish the province. The expert opinions, as well as the opinions of those who supported the procedure for amending the Constitution, are such that the municipalities cannot provide the province with all the elements that the province needs for its functioning. Thus, it cannot provide borders, it cannot provide full funding, it cannot provide a functional element, that is, the tasks that this province should carry out on behalf of the country as well as the most important, the municipalities cannot give the province legal status or the status of the legal person. When the National Assembly supported the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution and, of course, Article 143, it decided that this obligation would be constitutional and, of course, also have such a category. The provinces will become part of the country's constitutional structure. After the adoption of constitutional changes, they will also have to be established, it will not depend on the will of individual municipalities, individual councils, but on individual mayors who want to go to one or the other province or perhaps nowhere. I am sure that the process of drafting laws in the provinces will then be able to be completed and that it will be easier to discuss the division of Slovenia into the provinces, which in fact also presents us with serious problems when we talk and negotiate or, above all, others talk about where someone would like to connect. You probably know some cases across Slovenia. Such an approach is quite similar to those of the European countries where these local communities are a compulsory component of constitutional arrangements at the second level. It was therefore also appropriate to support the second government proposal, which referred to the amendment of Article 121 and, of course, Article 140(2) of the Constitution, which regulate, by their content, the issue of the labour area of the provinces. This allows the implementation of State tasks to be carried out to the provinces. Of course, I have to make it very clear that when we talk about this transfer of functions, we are thinking explicitly of decentralisation and the principle of subsidiarity in the national system of Slovenia. Given that we have been so different in our opinions that we have faced diametrically opposite positions, one is what he says from below to simplify, and the other that says, by law, and that we have supported, that is to say, the establishment of landscapes by law. If, following the initial proposal of the Government, it was proposed to remove the prior consent of local communities, namely municipalities and provinces, for the transfer of State tasks to local communities, we have, of course, retained, on the basis of a new proposal, that the municipalities are still subject to agreement if the state wants to transfer something to the administration of municipalities and that the provinces should not be subject to this. Of course, I am also talking about the provision of funds and the like. In the proposed new Article 143 text, there are two other developments that we support. The main point is that the law establishing the province would determine its territory, its seat, its name, and the adoption by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. In addition, before deciding on the establishment of the province, the National Assembly should call on the municipal councils in the area of the province envisaged to give their opinion. The proposal on the two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present for the adoption of the law establishing the provinces is the fruit of a political compromise, which is intended to provide the necessary quorum to amend the existing 143rd Article of the Constitution, without which, in our opinion and in our opinion, the profession cannot reach the establishment of the province and thus not regionalisation and, if I may say at the end, also the decentralisation of Slovenia. We also propose that the National Assembly, before deciding on the establishment of the province, should call on the municipal councils in the area of the province envisaged to give their opinion on the establishment of the province, not only in order to actually underpin it, but also for formal reasons, as has been said today, to be sufficient to some standards, but to obtain this opinion of a substantive nature, and that this should be taken into account as much as possible in the number of comments to be drawn up as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission. There are a lot of people who have been reported to speak. Allow me only to warn you because many amendments have come to the table to the position that the debate on the amendments will be guided by this general debate, so please make sure that you do so within the time limit notified by the panel. So much for a warning. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much for that warning. I must say that between us I miss Mr Minister, who also advocates this proposal to delete Article 143 and to amend Article 121 and Article 140 as an internal minister in the function of the formation of the provinces. It would be appropriate if the National Assembly decided that the Minister would be here among us. Otherwise, I find that the ruling coalition has not done what it has also done in this area at the time of its participation. It is unlikely that if this has not been done so far, that in this situation, which is actually falling apart in some way, this would be done. And it seems to me that today, more or less in the second round, we are wasting our time in this National Assembly, on the fact that we have much work to do before May 1, I would recommend to the planners of the agenda that we postpone this matter of constitutional change. But the facts are here. Today this is planned, and it is only necessary to say how we feel about this. And I must say to the deplorable that I will repeat once again what I am once again in this debate in the National Assembly has already been principles. To date, the provision of Article 143 of the Constitution, which is proposed to be deleted, is written in such a way that the Constitution does not provide for the compulsory establishment of a wider local community, but, on the basis of this Article, the municipalities may decide and merge independently, either into provinces or possibly other wider local self-government communities, of course, with a view to regulating certain of their common affairs. We also understand this provision of Article 143 of the Constitution in Novi Slovenije, and we strongly believe that it is not necessary to delete Article 143 of the Constitution in order to establish the provinces, regions or whatever we call it, since it allows for the municipalities to be linked projectically. This is happening today in the Republic of Slovenia, where there is no obstacle, even in some way, and of course it could have been better if the government supported these projects more. That's also what we think because the Constitution is the most important act. To change the Constitution is very often of course not state-of-the-art, especially when it comes to resolving certain issues that have mainly political motivation. I personally believe that this desire to establish landscapes as political creations is merely a political motivation that this is not a matter of economic, social or other developmental reasons, but I think this has already been said. Establish the provinces as political creations and then control them from a center. We are convinced that by this time the government has not done what is necessary to actually bring the congregations together into a wider local community, that is, into the provinces or regions. If the government wants to do enough in this area, then it should be more than just a draft on the provinces. We know that the draft law on the provinces was adopted in the 1999 National Assembly, but the tasks to be performed by the provinces were very broad and unclear in this law. In this way, certain communal activities, then energy activities, some education activities, then economic and craft and agriculture control activities, are to be carried out jointly by the provinces. In addition, certain joint transport regulation activities, then certain activities relating to natural and other accidents, the regulation of space and the protection of the environment and some other public services, as well as joint activities in the field of nature protection and cultural heritage, are to be carried out. All of this has been written into a broad, undefined assumption of what future provinces should be and what the state would be prepared to transfer to such established provinces, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In this we also see one of the main reasons why this matter or the regulation of this area of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia has not moved from a dead point because the tasks were more or less descriptive. The biggest drawback to this draft law adopted by the previous Parliament was the area of funding. The law stated that the province was financed by its own resources; which it was intended to be, the law did not provide for. The country is then supposed to be financed by state resources, namely that the State is prepared to give up part of the income - which part of the income is not mentioned - and by means of local communities. And this latter was probably thought of as the main financial contribution to the operations of the provinces. We think that the funding plan set up in this way is rather unclear and that, in fact, there have been many concerns and even reasonable expectations if the provinces are set up to harm both the jurisdiction and the financial resources of the municipalities, which would then simply have been taken away from them by the State and transferred to the province. Even now, we know that in Slovenia, for the purposes of local self-government, about 4% of gross social product is allocated to municipalities for the purpose of functioning, which is the least or the most common share between the Member States of the European Union. And there are reasons for that. The only thing this draft law, which was adopted in the first reading in 1999, clearly defined which authorities the future province should have. In this way, the provinces would have somehow favored provincial councils, and they would also have provincial committees appointed by the congregational councils and the provincial chief. This is very clearly written in this draft. Of course, it was immediately clear that such a solution to the administrative structure of the provinces would mean an increase in red tape and, consequently, the use of funds for these purposes. In 1993 the state budget was 217 billion Slovenian tolars, and ten years later the state budget, I think, I don't know, was 1,450 or several billion Slovenian tolars. The government is now speaking, and it is for reasons of centralisation that it is essential to establish the provinces. Centralisation, however, is expected to be the result of the formation and development of numerous municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in New Slovenia as an opposition party we cannot agree to such an argument, because if anything is responsible for excessive centralisation in this country, which is actually excessive, this is the work of this government or government coalition, not the creation of small municipalities, which have developed intensively so far, especially in the area of municipal infrastructure. They cannot bear the responsibility of the small municipality for the government to start centralisation in the field of administrative tasks, such as geodetic administrations, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to carry out intensive centralisation in the field of inspection services at this time. On the one hand, this centralisation does not actually achieve any financial impact, because if you look at it, as I said before, the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia are steadily increasing and the number of employees has not decreased as a result. It is true, however, that the effect of this centralisation is only one, and this is that the service to our citizens has not approached, but on the basis of this has distanced and has also irritated, as they increasingly have to pay more and more for the issuance of various forms, acts, etc. Even more so is the Government's argument that more coherent regional development will begin with the establishment of the provinces. I am personally sure and cannot agree to a government argument that these shortcomings, which we know today in coherent regional development, will be addressed. If today, in the area of North-East Slovenia, which is in the developmental sense among the most disadvantaged regions in the Republic of Slovenia, if you turn it into a province, of course this does not mean that then this status of the province will mean that this region will develop more rapidly, that the number of unemployed will be reduced, unless, of course, it is in the background of the idea that certain resources will be brought about by increasing bureaucracy and that employment in the state administration will reduce unemployment. People should be offered new jobs outside this sector, i.e. in the economy. If we want the regions to develop more evenly and more quickly, we need to implement the law on coherent regional development more quickly and more effectively. To prevent this law from being enforced, at least for our sub-regional statistical region, I can say that it is in fact a great fault for the government itself, which has allowed three development agencies to be established in our statistical region. These three development agencies are competing with each other today for funding in the preparation of projects. The result is that, in the meantime, it is not agreed that the sub-regional region of the development programme does not have and is not in a position to apply for the calls of the various funds of the European Union at this time. The current law on coherent regional development, which is incorporated into the parliamentary procedure, does not essentially solve this, but instead of the 12 statistical regions, it implements 14 developmental regions, among which two are purely politically-established and, in fact, even past the will of the population, it ranks individual municipalities in the development regions, but we all know that this law is pre-preparation to the provinces as political works, so how the municipalities will be placed in the development regions today. This is how the government, if, of course, this line of article 143 succeeds, envisioned the closure of the provinces throughout Slovenia. We'd be very naive if we thought it would be different. In Novi Slovenija we do not oppose the origin of the provinces, but the provinces must - and we are deeply convinced - come from below. They must be created in such a way that the inhabitants see their opportunity in these lands, and they must be created in the way that people want them to be. Before that, people need to be clearly and clearly told what the landscape will mean in an administrative sense and what the province will mean in terms of the financial burden for our citizens and citizens. In the view of the New Slovenia, before we move towards amending the Constitution, it is necessary to draw up a law on the provinces, a law from which it will be clear what is supposed to be in these provinces. Anything else, if we don't have this law, is somehow, if I express myself with the most recently used word, it's kind of "blefering." As already stated in the position of the Group of Members, we will not support the deletion of Article 143. Once again, the state of preparation for the provinces is politically conditional. It is not about having an economic, social and developmental desire to raise Slovenia to a level of even development that we are experiencing in less developed regions and can see every day. Of course, an optional opinion that the congregations are supposed to give in setting up and setting up the provinces does not mean anything; then, if I put it that way, it is easy for the preparer to excite himself. Having an opinion is, of course, not the right solution. The decision of the people must be binding. If that is not the case, then it is difficult to say that the provinces will be established by consensus. It also points out that we need to have clear criteria for what the provinces will do, how they will finance themselves. This is also pointed out by the State Council, in which, as some have noted, representatives of local interests are sitting and should be heard. Let me get this straight. It seems to us, and I personally think that the path that the ruling coalition has set out to reach the provinces is untrue, will not succeed. For if we do not adopt certain binding rules and criteria for how the provinces should be shaped, how they will be financed, then it is difficult to talk about some vague perspective and to prove to people that this will be a good solution. Article 143 of the Constitution will not be supported and we think it is very irresponsible to change the Slovenian Constitution, which is only ten years old, on short notice and following such swift procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Yuri to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President. I heard about the presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups that we do not have a tradition in Slovenia in the area of landscape organisation. Of course, I would argue with this thesis a little bit, because if there really is no tradition in recent times, however, there are many elements of the regional organisation and in particular the coexistence of the local interests and powers of the state in the municipal system itself. There was also some experience, precious, in our previous arrangement. Let me remind you of the two regional communities that have been institutionalised, of course, with all the powers of the State and the local communities or communities involved. And these two communities may have been pilots at the time, both of them showing us what we can expect from landscape organization. I speak, of course, on the basis of my own experience. One of these two communities was a community of coastal municipalities, which brought together three municipalities, Izola, Piran and Koper, which for a number of years operated, had its statutes, very clearly defined powers, tasks and organisation, and cared for a number of things that are at the heart of the development and development of this area today. I'm talking about water supply, planning joint roads, protecting the environment, both on land and at sea. She took care of geodesy, even inspection, the construction of a coastal hospital, the development of higher education and the laying of the foundations of the current university in Primorska. She was concerned about the preservation and promotion of the cultural identity of Slovenian Istria, the promotion of economic, cultural, sports and other cooperation with neighbours, I mean with Italy and Croatia and so on. Of course, today we can speculate and speculate on how three coastal congregations or three municipalities of the Slovenian Istrian Republic would develop if it were not for this community. But the fact is that today all three of the indicators of development are among the first in the country. There were, of course, some shortcomings in this community, some illogicalities that were somehow managed and resolved and resolved through the agreement and coordination of the presidents of the executive boards or the presidents of the congregations. This community, as you know, was part of the community's system. When we closed the municipal system and went to the new organization of local self - government, to the founding of the 193rd congregations, and in the first round of 140 more, this community also ceased to function. So there was a gap in that space. Now this gap is somehow complemented by regular coordination, which is not what the previous community was. These are valuable experiences, at least for our place, for our area, which led me to draw up a draft law a year ago on the establishment of the Istrian Region, which I did not submit, because I believed and considered that this solo initiative, like some other solo initiative, would not be consistent with the idea of comprehensive regulation of this issue in the country. That is why I repeat, I have not tabled this proposal, and I have waited to finally come to a comprehensive solution. He's in front of us today. Today, this comprehensive solution goes through, of course, constitutional change. If we do not have these constitutional changes and because they have not been made by all the statements, almost by consensus, of all political parties, with nuances, of course, that we are for regionalisation, that we have not set up any for the establishment of the provinces yet today. There were no conditions for these to arise under existing constitutional arrangements, which suggests that we need to change this constitutional regime. I was among the signatories or in the group of Members who signed the proposal to delete Article 143 of the Constitution, which would remove one of the obstacles. I further agree with the proposal that we have today on the table, which has also been verified by the Constitutional Commission, is more comprehensive and I will support it. If we do not take this step today, we will continue to step on the ground and to accuse each other of who is to blame for not having regionalisation yet, and perhaps leave this hot bone to future generations of the National Assembly. But, of course, this is some kind of "unbelievablestore," but today we have a chance to break it. Maybe with the mania to the referendums that are very advanced in our country, if we fail to solve it ourselves, we will solve this problem again with a referendum. I think that such a solution can be prevented, and we can take this step in a responsible manner, by making the creation of the provinces possible in the next term. We will not be able to do this here, but we can do and create the conditions for moving forward, that is, with the proposal for a law on the establishment of landscapes. I will, of course, have the views drawn up by the Constitutional Commission and the proposal for a constitutional law broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues. From recent experience, to begin with, let me say that we all know, regardless of our political affiliation, the consequences of interfering with the constitutional category. Today we are interfering with the Constitution and any change that would or would arise is very, very important. Secondly, the general opinion of the Slovenian National Party and mine is that today I would be much more pleased if the Slovenian public could monitor the discussion of the envisaged constitutional changes, rather than that it accompanied what happened 14 days ago. But let's just leave it. We are interfering with the Constitution, and my personal opinion, as well as my colleagues' opinion, is that we are once again engaged in a superficial or unrelated category of regionalisation or regionalisation, or we could also say that we are establishing provinces. We all know that when Slovenia enters the European Union, it is necessary to think first, and there is much talk about how Europe will shape the provinces. Secondly, we know that in our Slovenian country we are already interfering in spatial division separately into somestje and in spatial division, whether it will be eight or it will be twelve provinces. And third, we're saying, at least that's how I understand, I'm just speaking lazily, as far as I can understand, about the legal order of the provinces, the regions, the provinces, whatever you want. I come from the existing regulation of statistical regions. They exist, they're called statistical regions, they're twelve today and they're living. They were designed on the basis of certain criteria based on common interests, which is already enshrined in the existing constitution. And if you allow me to express, as a Member of this National Assembly, on my behalf and probably on behalf of many citizens and citizens, as well as Slovenes and Slovenians, the question of what criteria should be laid down or given the right to the State by law to establish regions. These criteria, unfortunately, I don't know if I overheard them in the debates they were. Today we have already heard that we are somehow scattered, not we, the National Assembly of the past years, which once what has been transferred by the State to so-called statistical regions - I am talking about the judiciary, I am talking about inspections - was then transferred to the state level. Now I don't understand whether this will all be brought back; but I don't know these criteria. It is certainly a good solution not to delete Article 143. The dictions set out in the amendments to Articles 121 and 140 following the finding of the Constitutional Commission, which my colleague, Saša Peca, has pointed out, can, in fact, be corrected by the expression, at least in my opinion, if I do not understand correctly, the nomotechnical correction of the existing, written sentences and words in the 121st, 140th and 143rd Articles of the Constitution. When I wanted to come to the content of constitutional changes in the core, in fact, I understood that it was a matter for the country to regulate the future landscape regime by law. The second wish I understand is the decentralisation of state authority. In this case, I repeat my colleague's words that in the amendment to Article 140, if you allow me to check, the word "may" is also 121. Since the word "may" is, in other words, taken into account in the existing texts 121, 140 and 143. The term "wider self-government local community" if we turn it into a province is the province. In my personal opinion, it would be good enough for the law to regulate this change, not the constitution itself. Once again, interference with the constitutional category is a very, very serious intervention, and it can have serious consequences later on. I also agree with some colleagues who raise a legitimate issue of funding. The issue of financing, by law-ordered provinces, regions, provinces, whatever you want, and of course what I said at the beginning, which criteria will be set. In addition, we also ask about the possibility and will expressed in the existing text, in particular in Article 143, the municipalities decide on their own. We have a proposal on the two-thirds will of Members to draft laws. Of course, we have the possibility of determining this very precisely in another way. In the Slovenian National Party, when reviewing the proposed amendments 121, 140 and 143, we decided not to oppose the proposed amendments. We will judge and judge for ourselves what such changes would bring. Once again, I ask the honourable assembly, as well as all those who, for certain reasons, also adapt legislation to the European Union, do not rush too quickly, because clearly and loudly it has been said, the speed is killing. And it would be wise to assess and coordinate the distribution of landscapes both at the European level and at the national level, primarily on the basis of certain criteria and on the basis of good organisation of work and transfer of labour, so that we will not now - or perhaps well - bear what we have decentralised and what we have already centralised - decentralised again. I respect the will of all those who want good constitutional and legal changes, but once again, respected colleagues and colleagues, I hope that at least here we share our views together, do not rush too quickly and judge what words will be introduced into the Constitution itself as a basic act on which we live all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Janša to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I think it's a very important topic on the agenda. Regrettably, those who have proposed this proposal to amend the Constitution are at the wrong end. Slovenia is centralised and centralised because those with 12 years of power in this country want it to be that way. If we didn't want to, there would have been changes a long time ago. There have been many excuses - about this a little later - but what is now ahead of us is an attempt to decentralize Slovenia in a centralised way, so that something can be arranged from the top that can only be arranged from the top. From this point of view, the current constitutional solution is the right framework for the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia in an agreed manner so that the powers of the State and the powers of local self-government can be established in this area. But the way proposed is certainly not going to be very successful. Even if it is voted, it will mean that in a place where all these things belonging to this area are not to be decided, they will be decided in a centralised way and people will get the feeling that something is being imposed on them again. The provinces are somewhere between the state and local self-government, between the state level and the municipalities and the cities. This is the place where the powers of the State and the powers of the municipalities or local self-government are met. This must also lead to a solution on this basis. I think that the fact that the province is not yet in Slovenia is solely because of the willful will of the current authorities and there is no reason for this to be a member of the Constitution, which is now trying to change. The Constitution is just an excuse. It is not because Mr Gaber, as a school minister, wants to appoint high school administrators, the provinces are not because Mr Keber, Minister of Health, wants to continue to appoint and have everything in hand when appointing directors of regional hospitals and so on and so on. If the will to decentralize existed, the provinces would have been long ago. This will would also be shown in a different way. The government's decentralisation, which we have practically 12 years of power, with one minor gap, could also carry out decentralisation by means of an institution, an important institution that was created at that time, not having to move the old one, but talking about the ones that were being produced at that time, and it has occurred to dozens, hundreds of agencies, funds and everything else, if this had moved slightly across the country, the image of decentralisation would have been significantly better, or the image of the country of Slovenia would have been significantly better. But you weren't in love if you were, you'd be here by now. It is so easy to deceive when it is said that the constitution is guilty that there are no provinces in Slovenia. We, when it was clear that the government would insist on this proposal, offered some smart compromise. We have proposed that the consent of the congregations to the formation of the provinces should not be deleted, but be reduced from absolute to two-thirds. We have also proposed a model with which this would be technically feasible. In this way, the last argument, perhaps in part, would be rejected, that now one municipality can block the establishment of the province, if this 100% consensus were to be reduced to two-thirds, then this danger would no longer be present. However, even now that we have a solution that requires the consent of the municipalities, I think that whether it is true that such a blockade could occur or not would have weighed only in the event that the State authorities adopt a law in which it would be clear which powers the province would exercise and in which it would be clear which resources we would use to do so. As long as it is not available, it cannot be said that the municipalities are not interested in the formation of the provinces or that there are no formal conditions for this. That's speaking in mind. As has already been said, the compromise that was proposed was good in my opinion, and it also responded to all the fears that were mentioned as fears that municipalities would block the establishment of the provinces, but those fears are also taken into account. Regrettably, however, there was not enough hearing to bring about such a compromise. As has already been said, I do not believe that there is any municipality in this country, any municipal council that would vote against moving the decision closer to the citizens of that municipality, that it will not be necessary for people to resolve certain matters at a second stage, rather than to go to Ljubljana to be able to arrange it, I do not know, in Postojna, in Maribor, in Ptuj, in the New Town, wherever the provinces will sit. I don't think there is a municipal council that would deny people this possibility and vote against such a decision. Therefore, the talk is about not landing the congregation empty. With such an approach, which is now proposed, there is a danger that the one who will have an absolute say in the decision-making process will not change the opinion of the congregation after what you propose. We have a power that excites on such and different opinions, sometimes even on consent, sometimes even on the 95% majority in the referendums, so of course the opinion of a congregation will not count. The regional coalition, however it may be, will be able to vote in this House any province it wishes and will transfer to these provinces only as many powers as it deems wise, and will also collect as many powers as it deems wise to the congregations. Given that we have a power that has centralised Slovenia, we do not believe that the same authority will decentralise Slovenia in such a way; there is no argument for such belief. We also disagree with some aprioristic mistrust in the rationality of decision-making at local level or in the rationality of decision-making. Two days ago, we heard someone who's been warming up chairs in this building for 25 years, how people actually want the elite to decide for them. Of course it's not true, it's just someone slept through the changes and forgot to look at the calendar every day. But this same purpose, this same desire, this same belief of the branch also in this proposal to delete the consent of the municipalities in establishing the provinces, if, there is nothing they know, are fools themselves, in the municipalities they cannot decide; there is a dedicated elite who will know exactly what is good for every province and for every congregation - and this is a completely wrong approach, even in contrast to some trends in Europe that are also seeking to decentralisation. For these reasons, of course, this constitutional change will not be supported. It is difficult to vote for something like this, especially since a compromise has been offered on the table, which has been significantly better and which would in a rational way lead to Slovenia actually decentralising itself. Performing decentralisation in a centralised way, by those who have centralised the country most, is fruitless work and we do not want to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The transfer of tasks under the authority of the State to a local level is certainly one of the most important pathways to urgent decentralisation, if I do not use the word, of deconcentration of power. The identification of this new map and, of course, in this context, the new tasks to be taken over by the provinces or regions are not simple for a number of reasons. There is always a question of what someone loses - of course, I am talking about those powers and tasks of the state administration or tasks that are now under the jurisdiction of the lower levels or local communities. In short, on the one hand, what someone loses, and what it is that someone can lose. In this case, what tasks, which funding sources are expected to acquire by the provinces or entities that would assume those responsibilities that are now in the country's domain. I think that the question, if we ask it just like that, can be put wrong or, in this sense, wrong when we ask ourselves only some loss. It should be stated what the state acquires by doing so, in a general sense, if the responsibilities currently imposed and projected on it are transferred to those who are easier to identify, who are easier to identify, and who are easier to manage according to the environment in which they live. And, of course, it is also easier to develop the visions that are needed for them. In the long-term debate that took place when the issue of constitutional change and also regionalisation of Slovenia was opened, in my opinion, the competent minister led the debate in a sufficiently inconsistent or clumsy manner, especially not systematicly enough. In fact, there was only one question between the lines, namely the question of trust. This question of trust may be less problematic if it had been previously answered to the question of financing, financing with this kind of new division, along with such a new map, but the key to this has not yet been given early enough, and this has made the scepticism of the debate that has been taking place so much higher. In principle, no one likes centralisation. At the same time, he still trusts himself more at some subconscious level of the country than he trusts the lower one, not to say, certainly subordinate, but to her different levels. I would like to explain this trust in a case that has taken place in the field of culture or is still taking place, which means some kind of fear that if certain powers, the founding ratios of finance or governance and supervision are transferred to a different level from the country, then lower level managers will not be able to represent interests, such as cultural institutions. It is interesting that the decentralisation of the national programme for culture, which we have considered recently and also adopted, has not touched at all. After some pressure, the Ministry decided to write one sentence on this topic, which says that the country, together with the local, regional authorities, will seek to track the dispersion of power. But in fact, there was no vision of how to do that. And that's a very, very big problem. The problem is not only at the level of funding, but above all management. The transfer of management, monitoring of projects and programmes to local communities is simply not wanted many times. Maybe the government doesn't want it in some way, on the one hand, because it doesn't want to lose some kind of control over the whole territory, on the other hand because the local communities give it up. A typical example of abandonment has occurred recently since the transfer of the founders and owners, free of charge, property relations of two theatre houses from the local to the national level in fear, when local communities are unable to identify with these projects if the funds transferred for them will eventually be spent for something else and not for purposes that serve culture. Typical evidence was when the establishment or financing and governance from the state level moved to the local level and, of course, the local level resisted and even their resistance was successful. Thus, more than 30 cultural institutions have returned to the country’s embrace, irrespective of the fact that some of the money that has been dispersed for this purpose has been used for anything other than what is supposed to be, and despite the fact that some municipalities have benefited greatly from it. In short, the situation we are in is not good if I come from just this case in the field of culture, but I believe that more typical cases are even different. It's not good because it's not systemic because it's not transparent because they're involved, not only in financing, but also in the responsibility of the state level with local decision-making. A typical example, small but still important, was recently since we recognized how different the personal incomes of those institutions that are, say, libraries in Ajdovščina and libraries in Ljubljana or state institutions, cultural institutions that are under the jurisdiction of the state and those under the jurisdiction of local communities. In this case, it is certainly not only for this reason that the deconcentration of power must be carried out in Slovenia and decentralised and certainly without constitutional changes, evidence is more than enough, it cannot be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you very much. To your word, Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your word. First, we need to ask ourselves how we want to have the provinces in Slovenia, if we have already decided or the constitution says that we have them or that they can be established, in the function of the country or become this creation based on local interests? Obviously, the government is more interested in how it would divide the country into provinces, by administrative principles, and then maybe assign some responsibilities, especially in the function of creating new administrative services, perhaps even local parliaments, then, the commission, all the apparatus that belongs to it. If you want something like this, then it's gonna happen. Such dismemberment is certainly not the right thing to do. The Constitution says that from local communities then they form provinces, and that's the right approach. We practically don't need anything to make this happen. We need an implementing law, which the constitutional article itself imposes. That's one thing. The second thing would be if there was a will in the country to form the provinces, then we should provide money which is conditionally distributed only in the case of the formation of the provinces to grant certain powers, and then we would certainly have the provinces in office in Slovenia, not at the will of the political elite. On this issue, I would rather touch on something else, which is related to the formation of local communities or regions. I am particularly interested in the emergence of the European region. Europe is uniting and the current time is the time for European regions to form. Alpe-Jadran, this is the current issue, not the separation of the Slovenian state. This region should stretch from the Julian landscape, Istria, Koroška and more to form a single space. A single space with a gravitational point of Ljubljana that would attract economic, cultural and other initiatives. We are interested in strengthening national identity, the impact of the development component, not fragmentation, weakening of unity and burdening economic potential in administrative chambers with no benefit for people. For money to come across Slovenia, something else would be sufficient - for the government to call and allocate money and competences for individual projects, for tasks performed at local or provincial level. We do not need artificial landscapes to distribute money, material resources and other resources. Let the congregations decide how you will offer them this; when we offer them this, they will quickly organize themselves for the execution of their programs. Within six months, we can establish all regions that will be logical, meaningful, rational and take account of local interests. I'm sure it's very fast. Until these preconditions are met, then, of course, they have no interest in local communities to engage their own potentials, their own money in some regional projects or the formation of regions; they do some regional projects where they are necessary where local people need it. Let us not follow the landscapes as they are in Germany, because these provinces are significantly larger than Slovenia itself. If we want to fool or ensure adequate financial opportunities, the financial arrangements by the European Union can be done administratively, and without great Rompom and without a great waste of state resources. That's possible. Otherwise, in Novi Slovenija and myself, I advocate a bottom-up approach, taking into account the local communities and the state's benevolents, in order to ensure the necessary money and competences. However, our National Assembly should once again adopt a law that is, in fact, also referred to as the constitutional article that we want to amend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, she's not here. It burns, no. My word to Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, it is interesting to see this hall when we are discussing constitutional changes when there is no minister in the Chamber responsible for this area, there is no secretary of state, and most of the ruling coalition is not here either. And one wonders why the attempt to convince others, when it is clear that it is already decided in advance how the vote will take place in the evening. On such an important issue as the regions or even changes to the Constitution, one would expect to hear the debates of all the most responsible people, as well as representatives of political parties, in order to listen to and try to understand each other in such a weighty, important step as a change in the Constitution, because it is not political prestige, but when we talk about regions now, we will create appropriate conditions for development at the regional level in Slovenia. Presentations of the views of the Group have shown considerable differences in views, which shows that there will also be a consensus today that there will not be some reasoned measurement of opinions, but that there will be some vote again. Is it really wise that the ruling majority, even in matters such as constitutional change, should act as it has done several times? That, therefore, by means of his voting machine, he is voting on something that, otherwise, turns out to be inappropriate in practice. Where such a policy comes from, we have seen in recent years that the government and the National Assembly have not, for example, maintained the same criteria, the same vats in the establishment of municipalities. In one case, there was great broadness here, again in the other extreme numbness and limitedness. If such a non-consistency policy is taking place within one and the same ruling set, then of course we cannot expect anything good to happen in the future. We have repeatedly found this not only by members of the opposition, but also by ruling parties, that Slovenia is a fairly centralised country. Those who walk much in the field and are very much among the people, especially outside Ljubljana, of course, we continue to listen to the consequences of the already destructive policies of Liberal Democracy, the United List and others in the ruling coalition when it comes to dealing with issues that concern people outside the centre of Slovenia. This centralisation has been created in the past ten, twelve years and its effects are not good. And now this government is trying to make some sort of regionalisation easier or, I don't know, otherwise to regulate the situation in society, maybe so that this difference is not so obvious. How many times are we talking about Slovenia catching up with Austria, for example, in the next ten years, if Austria has 3% economic growth and Slovenia should have at least 8% in this case. Do we ever wonder when Prekmurje will reach the development level of central Slovenian work, say Ljubljana with its surroundings? Yeah, after that, as things show, never. As this way of solving regionalism is also, in fact, typical of the ruling coalition, it is said, directive. In your government proposal is to get opinions from municipalities on the inclusion in individual regions. But these opinions about the government are not binding. This again suggests that this idea is of a more formal nature than of substance. The government doesn't care about people's opinions. The government has envisioned how it will carry out the matter, and it will do so - as some representatives of the ruling coalition say, even with force, if necessary. Thus, the solution to the very complex problem of creating regions would be achieved by the ruling majority by their voting machine, by force, without trying to find a common solution, one that would be acceptable to all. Nevertheless, we have once again tried a compromise proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We think it fits both the intentions of all of us after regionalisation and the people who will join the regions. However, two thirds of the municipalities are a sufficient, credible majority, which is then expected to ensure the organisation of the region for all those who would be included in the region in a particular geographical area. The essence of our proposal is, therefore, to stress the greater role of people in deciding which province they want to live in. The government - as we see here from the wall screen - has envisioned a five-minute debate, so it has taken five minutes to respond to all our comments, opinions and so on, indicating a completely unsolvable attitude not only to the opposition, but to all those who want to ask the government something in this debate. I would, for example, really like to know which professional and political arguments work in the opposite direction of our amendment. As I said, we have tried to come up with a compromise proposal and I would be very interested to know how she would respond if she had anything to say. I'm afraid the whole thing will look like nothing before: at an empty hall in the National Assembly, Members of the ruling coalition will come to the meeting tonight and press on a key that has been known since yesterday, to which they will press. This, of course, is far from serious political work and serious professional work on such an important issue as constitutional change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. So, whether we really want the provinces in Slovenia or not, it would be a fundamental question to which we should answer today. For it is clearly clear that if we want them, then the proposed articles of the Constitution should be amended, in particular Article 143, which gives to date the right and the possibility of establishing the provinces by means of an agreement between the municipalities, by holding a referendum and establishing a province. However, one question always arises to me: Why do we have no province in Slovenia - if this is so easy? Why did the congregations not decide to establish the province in the manner provided for in the current constitution? And why, for example, have requirements always been made that the Constitution should be supplemented and amended so that an appropriate law can also be adopted to determine the possibility of establishing and self-establishing? Today we are listening to a number of arguments that there is no need to amend this Article of the Constitution or that this Article of the Constitution needs to be amended differently. It is even said that it would be possible to decentralise Slovenia in a different way, without changing the Constitution, in order to decentralize the country in such a way that when it establishes certain agencies and other state bodies, the country will be classified in Slovenia, which I think is a pure deception of both the public and colleagues in the National Assembly. There have already been some attempts in this direction, and people are simply not satisfied with this, giving an agency or some state institution in, for example, Ribnica and thus even further away for some other parts of Slovenia. If it is so easy to decentralise, then I also wonder why those political parties who claim to decentralise management in a way do not transfer their seats, say, SDS to Ravne, SLS, I do not know, Trebnja, Liberals to Brežice - because it is unacceptable and unreasonable. Nor is it true that if you transfer the state authority from Ljubljana, say, to Koper, that you have done decentralisation with this. Wrong! You've caused a lot of problems, say, to the one in the Murska Sobota that you've taken away for the next 150 kilometers from the administrative authority that either the economy or the congregation needs. In short, I believe that all those who today oppose the proposed amendment of the Constitution in the manner proposed by the Government and also defined by the Constitutional Commission are opposed to the establishment of the provinces. All those who raise the issue of financing, with regard to the transfer of powers, do not want to do so, on the basis of the amended Constitution, to start discussing the law establishing the provinces, which I think is very correctly defined and also the position that it should be adopted in the State Assembly with a two-thirds majority, and thus to ensure a great consensus both on the establishment of the provinces, their functions and tasks. And, of course, to define also which tasks under the jurisdiction of the State would be transferred to this level of landscapes, which, on the one hand, we claim that they are urgently needed, we claim that the government has not done enough in twelve years to do so, while at the same time it opposes the idea that the way of determining the landscapes and establishing the landscapes should be changed. Once again, all those who will discuss should answer me why we do not yet have landscapes in Slovenia if you are saying that this does not require a change of constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Sonja Areh Lavrich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much. A respected choir! Unfortunately, the attitude towards local self-government in our country is not worth the attention of people and people living in rural areas. At the same time, it does not seem worthy of the Minister responsible for local self-government to be present on such an important subject as constitutional change, the creation of new constitutional provisions that would set the framework for the continuation of local self-government reform. But it's not weird. It all began with this mandate, with your proposal and with the reform of services to take care of local self-government. Once again, I would like to point out that the abolition of the stand-alone commission at the National Assembly and the abolition of the independent government service for local self-government indicated what solutions are expected from the government coalition. And it also proved that local self-government, the reform of local self-government and what should have happened in the area of regionalisation and landscapes did not happen mainly because there was simply not enough support and willingness to carry out these necessary steps that Slovenia should take in any way. It is clear that the implementation of the Local Self-Government Act has led to an excessive step towards decentralisation for those noble centralists, and therefore the process of reforming local self-government has virtually stopped at this stage. To put a stop to it, fate of the 50th and several other proposals put forward by the individual environment two years ago in order to gain the right to decide at the referendum on the form of the local community in which they would like to live. You have uncompromisingly rejected all these proposals, or you have not even allowed people to speak out about the form of the local community in which they would live. We have a similar fate in the provinces. See, if you were to take the provinces seriously, you would first tell us what are the powers you intend to transfer to the province and to what extent and how much money you will provide to the so-formed provinces for action. But you're arguing about form. You see all the blame for the failure of the landscape project or according to you in article 143. That is also why such a proposal has been amended by Article 143. You have an organic fear of any influence of the municipalities, local communities in the formation of the provinces, and this also indicates that you have decided and are trying to make the provinces out of Ljubljana because it is already doomed to success. The fact that centralisation is extremely present in the Republic of Slovenia shows, after all, the way in which gross social product is consumed. I would like to point out that the various European Commissions have constantly warned us that we are on the tail of all accessions and of all the countries of the European Union with 5.2 gross social product consumed at the local level, in fact, on the tail. The first comparative country consumes 4 times the gross social product at the local level. The First Comparative State! A little less than 12% of public finances, gentlemen, who support such a centralistic approach to the use of public finances, which is the original sin of all centralisations, are intended to consume locally. Everything else is spent from the center, from Ljubljana. Last but not least, this is also evidenced by the unsustainable situation in the financing of municipalities. Only municipal municipalities and some who have any additional allowances, concessions or rents, have decent financing. It's not dependent on the state's aid, it's dependent on financial compensation. I believe that 162 congregations are such that the Law on the Financing of the Communities does not provide them with a sufficient material basis, the basis for the smooth performance of the tasks that the State has delegated to this congregation. This is at odds with everything we can see in this area in the European Union, and we can only hope that something will happen. See, in 1999 this National Assembly passed a law on coherent regional development. It is likely that these municipalities will never agree and agree on these regional development programmes in these twelve statistical regions. Unfortunately, this happened, and the country was embarrassed. The law should aim for more coherent regional development, to implement direct programmes of these statistical regions 1% of gross social product, which is over 50 billion. Indeed, in the form of direct incentives for these programmes, a total of just over 5 billion is allocated. Missed! This is barely about 10% of the implementation of the law, and this already indicates the intentions and importance that this government or ruling coalition gives to coherent regional development. Once again, I would like to say, perhaps as an answer to my predecessor, who said why the province was not established. I would like to remind you that quite a few laws on the establishment of the provinces have been introduced - Zasavje, Koroška - that it is practically agreed more or less as a result of the debates in these statistical regions, what they should look like in future provinces. At the same time, however, no one has brought at the national level a set of powers and a clear message on the way and extent of the financial resources that the State is prepared to provide for the financing of these provinces. I believe that the government will fail with its proposal not to amend Article 143 of the Constitution. I would also like to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have offered an interim solution, namely a two-thirds quorum, which would also prevent those criticisms of this 143rd article, which say that one municipality can deny the formation of the province. In this case, two thirds should be needed for the formation of provinces, two thirds of municipalities with two thirds of the population. I think that this is a good solution to enable and provide a good basis to come with a law on the provinces, which, after all, would satisfy the needs of the municipalities and the needs of the people living in these municipalities. In any event, I do not agree and will not support the proposed amendment, notably Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Butolone's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Today's debate is actually about three issues. How do I get to the second level of local self-government? What will be the second stage of local self-government? And how will she fund herself? In fact, the change in the Constitution could only answer the first question. The other two questions must be answered by law. It is clear, however, that depending on how the law will answer the other two questions, it also depends on how we decide on the first question. This is said to be the second stage of local self-government. If we understand the second level of local self-government also as a lower level of government, we must say that in my opinion at least I think that from local self-government we can transfer to this second level a maximum of 30% of what this province will do. At least 70%, in my opinion, should be transferred to the first level of local government or to the second stage of local self-government and to the first stage of the state administration. The municipalities will transfer part of their powers, which are already being transferred either to the Joint Municipal Administration or organised in a different way: contracts, co-establishment and so on. I am thinking of regulating space, inspections, municipal services, environmental protection, perhaps local transport, consistent regional development and certain public services such as hospitals, regional libraries, museums and theatres. There is nothing else on the part of the congregations that can be passed on. Of course, this is not enough for the functioning of the second level of local self-government. Therefore, it is essential, which will either transfer the country to the provinces, which it will organise at the level of the provinces, to maintain itself and how it will provide funds. In 43 different ways, the country is now regulated in specific areas. Individual ministries regulate their lower bodies or exposures, each in their own way. This should, of course, be uniform at the country level, either directly given to the region's workaround or to organise itself at the province's level, and it is clear that certain funds must also be provided for this. By no means can the municipalities provide more resources than they already provide for the functioning of the institutions that I have previously counted. Of course, it is essential what the state will transfer to the province and how it will finance it. And this is where the answer comes from how to organise the second stage of local self-government. Of course, opinions are shared, but I believe that if 15 municipalities consider that we will establish a province, as some have already done, it is, of course, impossible to prescribe by the municipalities what will now be what the state will transfer to the country's level and how it will finance it; even if we expect most of this work cycle and resources to be transferred by the state, then it is logical to expect that the state will have a decisive word in saying so. It is clear, however, that the role and opinion of local communities must not be completely ignored. I think that these are essential questions and if this is how it will be settled, then it cannot happen that there are white foxes in Slovenia where the landscape would not be, but on the other hand we would have them, but of course a third aspect is important for this region, it is a developmentist. The province must also place the development landscape on NUTS3, otherwise it will be simply a political creation. Secondly, the question of comparability, as has been said many times, may not be today, but secondly, of comparability with Euroregions. Euroregions operate on NUTS2 and it is clear that according to the number of inhabitants in Slovenia there can be no more than three, a maximum of three or two. And the establishment of these regions at NUTS2, of course, has nothing to do with the second degree of local self-government or at least direct self-government. I believe that the important question to be answered is that the establishment of the provinces should not increase the administration, but rather that it should only be the redeployment of the administration from the current state and part of the municipal institutions to that level and that this should not increase the pressure on public finances and that the burden on the population should not be increased. That is why, once again, what we are going to take on from the State is essential, and I therefore agree that this should be regulated by the constitutional law, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Government, because there is only one in the Chamber and, of course, this small number of Members and Members. In this debate, the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution seems very important to me because today we are actually talking in this national assembly about how tomorrow citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia will actually live, what opportunities they will have for further development and what this means for the entire development of the country of Slovenia. If anything, after the independence of Parliament, it was the most important act of Parliament in 1994, when it passed the Law on Local Self-Government. Since then, what we have local self-government has significantly changed the appearance, view and functionality of the whole country. The fact is, in this short time, thousands of miles of roads, thousands of miles of watersheds, have built many schools with suitable gym facilities, not just for school purposes, but also for outside schools — in short, in environments where young people had nowhere to go, except for a buffet or a banquet. There is something different about this area today. Thanks goes to the first and only local government, exclusively to citizens and citizens in this rural area, especially because they contributed a significant part of these investments through their own resources. Others, of course, in urban settlements, do not need to invest, and now they have the opportunity to use this for some Greek islands, or, of course, elsewhere; or leave on some yachts. In short, that's changed. With the amendment to Article 143, as initially proposed by the Government, by deleting itself, or by means of the current proposal by the Constitutional Commission, when it speaks of the province being established by a law establishing an area, seat and name of the province with a two-thirds majority, it is about as if we were to keep the wolf a sheep. In other words, does this mean that the government wants to abolish local self - government and abolish the congregations in this way? I literally mean, literally. This is because, in fact, I would like to make the former local communities of the congregations. I remember, because I was also the president of one of the local communities that had the resources at the time, with so many cars that she had to use one-sided paper as a "breeding" of the macadamian roads for a few cars, but for the paper she used, it was not enough or she had to use one-sided paper to use it on the other side. So this would be totally contrary to the purposes and objectives of the Local Self-Government Act or the punishment of citizens and citizens for what they have done in the last ten years. The only further acceptable compromise to amend Article 143 of the Constitution is what we have proposed, namely that such a law will be adopted by a two-thirds majority, but the difference proposed by the Government and what we propose to the Slovenian Democrats is that the law on the provinces must also contain the organisation, the powers of this province and the financing of the provinces. Personally, I am convinced that it is not possible to transfer these powers from the local government, from the municipalities, so almost no jurisdiction to the province, but it is necessary to transfer these powers from the country to the province, or it is possible only in the part where today - this is seen from practice - the municipality, the local communities work together, participate in some areas such as municipal waste management. But this is already an area that could be in a transferable sense in the provinces. You know, to amend Article 143 of the Constitution without saying what powers there will be in that law, and without saying a system of financing and of course accepting it by a two-thirds majority, is actually the abolition of local self-government; or simply speaking, if a proposal by a constitutional commission were adopted, essentially means through the last door the abolition of municipalities. There will remain only a few of those congregations that, of course, have significantly more resources than all others - with so-called appropriate spending. Look, it's no wonder that Ljubljana can afford to spend nine billion money just like that, so a lot of money if it has over 50 billion of its budget there. On the other hand, we have been warning all current finance ministers for some years in this National Assembly, and the former, when he was Minister of Finance, is now Prime Minister. At that time, as Minister of Finance, he was "amral" in the lobby of this National Assembly, when he suggested changing the law, but you know, he's not going, I'm not going to get consent. We're supposed to make a deal with the government. The government isn't behind it. Today he himself is the Prime Minister and, of course, he has done nothing in this area when it comes to the law on financial compensation. What happened was that when the income threshold rose as its own source and the most important source of funding for municipalities from 30 to 35%, in absolute numbers this meant 5,000 per capita - about I say, round figures for that time in Ljubljana per capita and of course 500 tolar per capita in one of the Slovene municipalities. This is a 1:10 ratio, and thus we have increased the differences in the congregations. That is why today we also have data, all the data that this government also acknowledges, that the differences between the provinces have increased or have increased between parts of Slovenia, not only to reduce. The purpose of the 1999 law on regional development was probably not that, and it was obvious. Those who adopted such a law at the time - you will remember that we strongly opposed the opposition with concrete proposals, warned of specific problems, but nothing happened. Today you are saying that you will decentralise, as you said at the time, that you will decentralise the country by means of this so-called law on regional development. You won't and you can't and of course you don't have that purpose! The purpose is obviously different. The aim is to have even more control over a certain structure at local level and how to dictate from Ljubljana, which part or which local community can develop. While you are doing so now through calls and through co-financing from the state budget, as you are doing when the state budget is being adopted, you will agree on some of the money you will put into those local areas from which you come. Of course, you do not give the opposition Members any transparent option, nor through the amendments, but do what you do behind closed doors, and most importantly it comes out. Therefore, I do not think there is any possibility that such a change in the Constitution would be adopted. For example, the amendment - otherwise you said that the debate on amendments would be later, but - given by the People's Party - has at least so much written that the way of financing should be adopted in that law. Once again, however, it is unacceptable because it leaves out local decision-making. In fact, he writes about the opinion - the opinion is nothing, the opinion is too small. As is today's opinion, and we cannot agree to this from a purely systemic point of view, such as today's opinion of the municipal council for the appointment of a principal in one of the primary schools in the local community - there is no logic. The local community is certainly the one who should make the decision; if any, then the Minister could give the opinion. This should then be done at regional level and at national level decided by the State. I am therefore convinced that even if you succeed today with the smaller quorum of the 46 Members in accepting this amendment of Article 143, you will not succeed when you need two-thirds of the support, because I hope that I am counting on the understanding of Members in this Chamber, at least 31 Members who will not allow what was done in 1994 to be done, that is, the established local self-government of the established congregation - so far none has asked to be abolished or to join with anyone, which means that they are obviously doing well. To date, there has been no state disobedience of citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens who would demand that their congregation be dissolved or anything because they see the advantage in this. In fact, one would expect us to upgrade this - as colleagues have already said before me - by transferring gross domestic product to local self-government, rather than abolishing it. The adoption of the amendment to this Article of the Constitution means the abolition of municipalities, and I hope that this will not happen in this mandate. That is why I am not going to undermine such a proposal myself, but I suggest to you, the representatives of the government and the Liberal Democracy, if you are serious about it, then seriously consider our proposal, which says that the law which will be adopted by two-thirds is written: organisation, competence and funding. If you seriously consider this, of course this can be acceptable and beneficial for the country. Because it is important that what will benefit citizens and citizens living outside of these urban settlements outside of the central centre of Slovenia, because all statistics also show that they live on significantly worse, that comparison against Europe is up to three times worse than from the central part of Slovenia and that, of course, unemployment is several times higher than in the centre of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u44	If I am well aware, we are in a direct transfer and it is not necessary for some to worry excessively about how someone is monitoring the developments in this national assembly, but even to cover up, like Dr. Brejc, that there are few of us here, you should first take care of your own to be present and also yourself, because at the moment he read or what he said, he left the hall and we will probably not see him again today. We'll see him in a year. We have before us the possibility of establishing the landscapes in the way that it is now, in this country; acceptable, feasible, because on the one hand we have written in the constitution that the municipalities decide independently in connection with the wider self-government local community and, of course, the proposal to establish the provinces without this codecision of local communities, and, of course, if we pull this option out, we will have the provinces, but if we do not implement them we will not have them. And all these stories that go from 10 o'clock to 3 o'clock, they're just a little bit of deception, they're stories that don't work out. And as foolish as you hear that by establishing the provinces, we abolish the congregations, madness is unprecedented. Do I have to say it again? And of course, because there is a need for some majority and some are playing on this map to prevent in all ways the landscapes from being established and that the stories they are repeating about decentralisation, about centralisation, about the financing of municipalities, about the undernutrition of individual parts of Slovenia, which is true, will not be rectified because those who warn about it do everything not to be done. Maybe I'm repeating a little bit of what my colleague Azhish said, but I don't know what to do, I don't want to. I don't want to repeat a variety of phrases about how guilt pleases anyone. However, we are now ahead of the fact that we are adopting a proposal for a text in Article 140, where we are talking about the financing of municipalities where there is agreement between the municipalities, and Article 143, where the municipalities alone will never set up the provinces. Never! The government can change a hundred times, the coalition can be formed a hundred times, with the consent or some coordination we will not have. And that in the case of Zasavje, Koroška, who would have just invented or reconciled himself - with all due respect for those who agreed - to be a province. But what Slovenia will look like if some municipalities are invented in individual parts of Slovenia and we are now a province. What are they going to mean? Nothing. Nothing. If Slovenia is not uniformly organised in the provinces under a system, because there must be a limited number of provinces, and if they do not have the same powers, the appropriate method of financing, this system cannot work. And this deceiving in hours and hours that we should all do - nothing can do. And once again, I say, those who in this - this text may still be partially corrected - but with this eternal public agreement of all the congregations, the work of the congregations and the establishment of the provinces in this way - this story does not come out and this is pure deception, pure bluff. And then there'll be nothing out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Gračner's word. Mr. Petan, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! With us right now, there is some false euphoria, and even those fundamentalist enthusiasts for the division of Slovenia, are presenting the issue in this light that if we have the landscapes, we will be able to solve everything at that moment. The development will go fantastically forward, the money will be enough. And we'll all be happy to develop. A mistake, ladies and gentlemen, a mistake! Because of the administrative establishment of any intermediate rate, we will have no more money, we will have less money, because the bureaucracy that will settle here will eat up the money and make our lives even more miserable. That's the first thing we need to clear up. Because of the provinces, there will be no more tolars, that's the first. Secondly, a more coherent regional development project can only be successful if the government, however, decides to devote more money to financing regional development. That's the only way, or nothing's gonna happen. And look, if you've been willing by now, that could be it. We have a bunch of laws on more coherent regional development, and the situation is: we find it bad. We have a bunch of funds that are involved and their purpose is to operate and establish only to take care of more coherent regional developments. None of that! We have a bunch of agencies that collect a lot of money, which we also get from Europe - and it's nothing. For what? Because the government doesn't give the money it has to spend. Regional development agencies are an example. I can say that in the Savino region we have over 200 programmes ready for implementation immediately, but unfortunately the government of the money it has promised will not. It doesn't mean anything! That's what they say. Money has to be given. The government has to decide. The second thing that matters. This attempt at more coherent regional development will be successful only if the interests of citizens, nationals, citizens and not the interests of bureaucracy prevail. So that red tape can be placed at 8, 10, 12, 14 new centers and then bothers down what people have to do to make them excuse their existence. Only the interests of the citizens! And don't mind me, I'll give you a case. Just when I wanted to go to high school, I still lived at a time when we had suburbs. There was not much missing that, like those who came from the Celje region, I couldn't enter Maribor, there was much missing. This means total bureaucracy, because health care will want to be in its region completely indigenous education will want to be completely indigenous in its region, as it was then. You couldn't go from one neighborhood to another to the hospital, and you almost couldn't go to school. I was fortunate enough to have let this go by then, and I was able to choose the school I wanted. We already know that. Gentlemen, I already know that! Such a project will only be successful if people's opinions are taken into account, and this will not be a political project. If this is not written somewhere in the coalition contract, which we find is a violation of this coalition contract and things are so "not spilt". This way we will not solve anything in the field of more coherent regional development! Next thing I know, it's important to tell you. We are talking a lot about this as a matter of concern to us because of the European Union. That's not true. The European Union itself emphasises that it has never been uniform in terms of these solutions, is not a single moment and will not be united because of the different historical developments that individual countries have been reviving at this time. Therefore, regionalisation is not a condition for integration into the European Union. But there's something else that's true. We have very many external initiatives on the formation of regions with us, from Austria's Koroška, Austria's Styria, from the Italian side, Furlania-Julia landscape. Yes, of course, all these countries are as big as the whole of Slovenia together, Austria's Styria is even bigger than the whole of Slovenia, including the inhabitants, I think it has more. And now that he has to talk to Slovenia, we're equal interlocutors. Then imagine that we will have a small region that will have 100 or 150,000 inhabitants, and they will have 2 million and over! Oh, that would be very nice to do! And one more thing. On our part, if we have regions, we will suddenly create borders within us, borders against Austria, Hungary and Italy will fall. We inside will make our own borders, and that is a great fear. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are proposals from the outside for how we should regionalise ourselves. If the representatives of neighbouring regions have the money to finance projects with us, then they should just come with the money. But it's not like they're gonna split us up first, and then they're gonna make us happy. Such a problem and such a concrete case is already the fifth railway corridor, when we are not yet divided. Whatever was connected here, I'm not going to argue now, because I don't have time, but remember how one of us has already supported or represented Austrian interests, that this corridor doesn't go through Prekmurje, but that it goes to Graz. Gentlemen of Prekmur, remember this! They didn't bring us around here in the European Union, but we did. Consider who represented such interests. Who? The mayor of Maribor, by the way, wasn't the only one to understand each other, he wasn't the only one to blame. Next thing you know. This majority, which has practically been in power for, I don't know, eight or ten years, doesn't matter, it can't fix it because it's complicated. You had at least two mandates, which I know, available all the instruments. In this mandate, you had even a two-thirds majority until recently, you could have changed the constitution, you could have changed it, but you haven't changed it. So that you don't say I'm talking to you, I'll just give you one case. You have a government that can handle things the way you think, what you don't have to do with the law. For example, I'll give you a voluntary supplementary pension insurance. In the opposition we represented two pillars to compete in Slovenia, so that they would look at each other under their fingers. No, the government has decided that there will be only one pillar in Ljubljana. The Maribor proposal My investment was equally good so that this financial pillar could somehow be divided - one would be in Ljubljana and the other would be out of Ljubljana. No, gentlemen, that didn't work! It took me two months to get an answer to my written question why. But that answer for the hair is attractive. That's what you say, you've been falling on specific occasions, and now you're going to solve what's been imported. Now you're going to decentralize what you've centralized! Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it works! This proposal for decentralisation for, say, I would call it not in the worst, for political regionalisation, of course, is political, which is entirely consistent, but it is a political proposal for re-centralisation by those who centralised Slovenia. We've heard the expression "poo-poo" before, and stuff like that. I'm going to repeat this a little bit, not quite like that. Such a proposal means, rather than abolishing the congregations, it is a fundamental limitation on the jurisdiction of the congregations, especially those small, large ones. Especially those small ones, and if you want to admit it or not, it means shutting down administrative units like we have. Now we have administrative units, I think in 52 places around Slovenia, which is some kind of core of the state administration. Then it will be just as many centers as the province will be: 8, 10, 12. Administrative units, like now, have been shut down. They'll just be recording your need and they won't be an administrative unit. You are also aware of this and therefore I say that this is the centralisation of Slovenia. This matter will be successful only if it prevails over the belief that this will require financial resources. However, these financial resources can only be earmarked by the budget. And in such a form that we will administratively prescribe the provinces or some other form of what we will call it, we will not solve this. That's why, of course, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Gračner's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. We are essentially ahead of an extremely important task, as today we will also decide on the establishment of the provinces. However, if I listen to the debates, particularly from the opposition, I have a feeling that I cannot get rid of, in fact, that they are defending centralisation and with all possible measures opposed to decentralisation, as everyone here in this national assembly is supposed to advocate and, of course, in the form of a law on the provinces in the future, to be passed on to life. The importance of decentralisation is certainly in history and, of course, today is proving to be of paramount importance. Today we know that Slovenia is divided into 14 so-called statistical regions, on the basis of which, 12 I apologize, on the basis of which the performance of individual provinces is recorded. However, look, it has been shown that if we read the report on regional development for 2001, 2002 and 2003, we find that these regional differences are in fact extremely large. The European Union, where we enter, of course no one has ever claimed to require the introduction of provinces. If you asked for it, you'd have done it a long time ago if you wanted to become a member on May 1. This is mainly about our own decision on how to organize our lives in this Slovenia. We have already wanted to do this several times in the past, even in essence from the whole of independence, but they could not do this simply because both the profession and the policy have found it necessary to amend Article 143 of the Constitution first, if the municipalities cannot formally, as stated in the current Article, a higher level of organisation of the country, cannot provide borders, cannot provide funding, cannot provide tasks, cannot give the province legal personality status. All of these conclusions have, in fact, been made in the entire history of the independent Slovenian state. In fact, our task is simple. If the profession and policy are the same in finding that this article of the Constitution needs to be amended so that the law on the provinces can then be implemented in the National Assembly, then it is before us Members, if we are actually defending this decentralisation, that is a completely simple task: to amend this 143rd Article of the Constitution and we will have a law on the provinces, and then this law will be able to strictly regulate both the authorities, both the provincial councils and the councils, both in the field of health, in the field of infrastructure, in the field of education and all those mentioned there, and of course, most importantly in the field of financing. At this point we can only identify these differences between individual regions, which are exceptional in Slovenia. But there's nothing we can do about it. Since the limits, the funding, are not yet provided in this form. Because of this, this amendment to Article 143, I do not understand at all what I would like to talk about, what extermination of the congregations, as we said before, absolutely in nothing. Indeed, it speaks of a two - way approach to establishing landscapes. The province cannot be established from the bottom up, the congregation, for the formal reasons established on the basis of professional discussions, many articles, many legal experts are united in this, now it is a single policy, at least it seemed so uniform, and it cannot be centralised so that at the level of the country, the state accurately records what the provinces will be. That is why the Ministry of the Interior, the Institute for Macroeconomic Research and Development and the Statistical Office have developed three options: 6, 8 and 12 regions. I am personally in favour of 12 because there is also a Zasavje mentioned inside, as a region with specific problems, which will certainly be able to defend its interests more intensively throughout the whole, rather than being in the very inner or central region of the region. Therefore, Article 143, which I have before me, cannot be spoken of as abolishing any congregations and, of course, no centralisation. That is why I welcome this change, I support it, and I will be happy to support it, with one goal in Slovenia that we will finally get regions or landscapes, that we will know where we belong and that life can be better organised.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would say that there can be no serious regionalisation without institutional regionalisation, cannot be institutional regionalisation without an appropriate law and cannot reach a quality law that would pave the way for regionalisation without constitutional changes. That's what I think is clear in here. Of course, we descend on various speculations, what to do, how to make them all fit. I must say that, according to my assessment, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a quality constitution, is a European comparable constitution, at this point very weak, although it shows in a good way that the provinces should be established with this kind of kindness, which should allow lower levels of local authorities to unite voluntarily, thus preventing some serious regionalisation. I must also say that I do not know the case, and when the debate was on the Constitutional Commission, I also asked, but no one came up with cases of non-institutional or non-institutional regionalisation in any country. It is usually operated that we want to build, especially with opponents of this change, that it makes sense to build a landscape from the bottom up, not from the top down. And I don't know a case like that. Of course, I strongly agree that the law to which we can open the way by amending the Constitution must involve the public concerned, involve local communities and must know the instruments by which local communities will have an impact on regionalisation, on the content of regionalisation and, of course, also on regionalisation in the physical sense of the word, i.e. only the division of Slovenia into regions. Critics of this approach, of this proposal for regionalisation or of this proposal for amendments to the Constitution mostly resent the ruling coalition, that it is itself to a large extent to blame for the centralisation of the country, that it has centralised this country to the point of limitations - I agree, however, that the state is extremely centralised - and that no one else is to blame for this. However, this is an opportunity, I think, for the opposition to make its contribution, and to the first step, we will still come to change the constitution. In doing so, I would mention that there are quite a few generators that are most symptomatic of the centralisation of this country. One generator is certainly a constitution that prevents the institutional regionalisation of the country. The second such generator, the first and most important, was immediately after the adoption of the Public Finance Act. And the third is the fact of the fragmentation of Slovenia into an excessive or extremely large number of municipalities. If I mention only these three, which I think are very important in this centralisation that has happened to us, I must say that the constitution was adopted at the time that Demos was in power, that this also happened with the law on public finances and that we know that the right half political option in Slovenia is strongly favored by the growing fragmentation of Slovenia in municipalities. I am saying this because the opposition critics, however, would see that they too have a left hand in this centralisation. In the end, we can see that much of the public finances have circled before independence and turned in local communities, as they are today. There are few cases in Europe where such a large amount of public finances can be concentrated only at the state level. And now that the ruling coalition in some way also needs the votes of the opposition to take the first step that would follow the law, and based on this first step, of course, everything is open, the issue of debate in this House is how we will go, but we hear criticism only in the style that the ruling coalition, which certainly has its share, is to blame for such centralisation. I would also like to comment on the various proposals put forward. For the first time, I would say that the views of the Slovenian People's Party are very close to the positions adopted by the Constitutional Commission and that with some good intentions we could adopt at least one of these two positions today and thus have at least some legal basis to go forward and finally accept them through the constitutional changes process. Given the mood, I doubt that this will happen because it is pure speculation, pronunciation, the transfer of responsibility to one another and it is a delay in decentralising this country. I could say that if I thought very well that, at the final stage, I could also support the SDS proposal. But I have to say something about my position here. To support the SDS proposal seems completely pointless. What does the SDS proposal bring us? It brings us an open path to a law that adopts rain with the same majority as constitutional changes. And not only that but also the other criteria: the two - thirds majority, or the consent of the congregations, or the number of people. Taking into account the fact that the Constitution is the hierarchically highest legal act, it also requires the highest majority. Then I do not know why the amendments to this Constitution, the highest legal act, are opening the way to a lower legal act, but we demand that this lower legal act be adopted with the same majority and with even worse criteria than the Constitution. This is completely pointless. It's the same as saying that one law governing a particular area, I don't know, I'm going to make up, the law on local self-government, would write in the law that some new law on local self-government, which is adopted with the same majority as this, will regulate the area of local self-government. I just can't understand it. It's pure speculation, excuse me, and pure excuses. However, there is talk of increased administration and bureaucracy, which is expected to take place after the introduction of the provinces. I never said we wouldn't get that. I also think that if we come one day to the provinces, and it would be good to get there as soon as possible, we will be faced with the fact that there will be more bureaucracy, administration and consequently more costs for this. But I advocate this process simply because this proportion, concentrated share and wealth and decision-making, which is too concentrated in one place, is dispersed because I claim that people are capable everywhere in Slovenia, and that they have the same or similar needs everywhere in Slovenia to disperse. And if you are already advocates of too much bureaucracy, I ask you: Does not the greater number of congregations increase bureaucracy? Did not Slovenia's independence ultimately lead to greater bureaucracy? Yes, it is. So what does that mean we should be against it? I just don't get it. Of course, I also did not agree with the uncontrolled decentralisation and transfer of the seats of institutions from place to place, although I agree that there is much to be done in this area. But we do have some unfortunate cases. When we transferred the Ministry of Tourism to Maribor, although we know that Maribor is the second largest Slovenian city, it has all the other problems, social, economic, and it would be better to think about what kind of resort to move to Maribor. Not that the Ministry of Tourism is moving. These were completely unfortunate cases, according to my deep conviction. It is true, however, that there are a number of state institutions, especially agencies, funds, bodies in the composition that should be shown to disperse them and bring development to some other places in Slovenia, but it would suggest that this should be done primarily with thought and, above all, would pave the way for this institutional, lower level country where the country and the local communities are confronted and this regionalisation is done. Once again, it is my belief that you are opposed to this for purely speculative reasons. I also do not understand how you scream that the ruling coalition has concentrated so much power within itself and that it has everything in its hands, but do not allow the ruling coalition itself, which advocates this, to allow this concentration of power to dissipate. There can only be one answer here. Speculative. That you are doing this because somehow you hope that tomorrow you will be in power and that you will have authority concentrated in one place, but in fact you are not concerned with the needs of the whole of Slovenia and the people who are a little bit more distant from these cribs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Malover should be, but he's not. Did you sign up, sir? Then we have different lists, I see. It's okay. Mrs. Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Respectable. With all those who have found today that the issue we are talking about is one of the most important social political issues that we are solving in this House in these four years. Undoubtedly, if we are not trusted by politicians at some point in time, the constitutional profession in the 12th, 13th years of this young country's life has found that the constitutional provision is that the 143rd article of the Constitution is the one that has hampered the potential aspirations for the regionalisation of Slovenia to date. Why? Looking at the decentralisation of the establishment of a second level of local self-government as inter-agency cooperation, it is too narrow, legally unsustainable, as Ambassador Gračner has previously done very precisely. And last but not least, I would like to tell the opposition's respected colleagues that you really have no right to read this issue to us. If in this part we believe the constitutional profession and not least the life that has been taking place in Slovenia alone for so many years, we can and must follow the results and also the view of Europe, respected colleagues. There is no country in the European Union where a second level of local self-government would be established, other than at national level, other than by law. All with one goal to ensure that this institutional framework is regulated in the same way throughout the country. We cannot afford a certain piece of our country to remain without this important second degree. What's the actual situation? The actual state, which so far justified that the country has been centralised, of course, every emerging country cannot put all institutional frameworks in place at the first moment and become like the countries that have been building their framework over the decades, not to say a century. However, to look at best practices, of course, it is right, and to look at our own deficits, which, due to our over-decentralisation in the country, appear, of course, is even better. If it is also a finding by the professional public that about 70% of Slovenian territory is counted among those who are lagging behind in development compared to the centre, this calls even more for this constitutional change to allow for decentralisation. I stress that in no way should the purpose of decentralisation be merely an administrative measure. In particular, the objective should be to allow a lower level of decision-making on its development, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. Those of us living in these areas know most about what will help us to improve our economic, cultural, school and so on. What will help to ensure that our children who are going to study at developed centres come back to what kind of environment we need to create for them. And for that we need all the leverage, and not least, the respected, especially the financial resources. Today, many of you have found that a lower rate, i.e. municipalities allocate about 12% of the public funds in our country. That's what it means to make most decisions about the department. If the second stage of local self-government were to bring people closer to them, it would mean that people who think about development in ministries today would have an interest, but not all Ljubljanaians, have an interest in coming closer to home and thinking about development in a particular smaller area. I think that this is the essential interest that the change in the constitution in this part will allow us. All inter-agency associations, which can be assured that in the Koroška 12 municipalities have been well-cooperating for all these years, suffer the fact that there are no original funds that could be invested in joint projects that go beyond the local, municipal level. Long ago, congregations learned that there are many common interests that go beyond the municipal level. Where do I get the means to provide and realize these interests? On this occasion, of course, our country is ill. The project applies to state resources, and who has to provide the co-financing part - the local community, because we do not have a province, because we do not have one to which the state would transfer part of the funds to develop and progress these important tasks, which are not municipal, should be regional. And they are not state-owned, that is what Europe has long known, and that is why it has this second stage of local self-government and thus contributes significantly to not all brain escapes to the centres. And last but not least, let us not stress here - by constitutional amendment to Article 120 we also allow the state to in some way decentralize the state administration, which has not successfully decentralized it in 1995, to say, or deconcentrate it, but we have completely dispersed, unfriendly people. We do not have public administrations organised in such a way that people know exactly where they can do a service. And the amendment to the Constitution in Article 120 is also an opportunity for what citizens need the nearest home to be delegated to the local community. Local offices, which are now doing a very important part, will thus become an integral part of local communities in this narrower work. This means a change of constitution. That used to be. And it wasn't bad. The State is always, when deconcentrating the State's tasks to provide as little money as possible, to provide the State's services as reasonably as possible. Today, the state administration is imprecise and not the cheapest, we find. The amendment to the Constitution in this article gives us an opportunity to remedy this. And indeed all the fear that lays upon the consideration of these constitutional changes, which are just an extension to me and just an opportunity to which I think, dear colleagues, we must come. After so many years of independence, we need to centralise the centralised state. And all those who say today that we can do this only with the consent of the congregations, I really ask you to examine the opinions of experts who say that the congregation cannot establish more than it is itself. My colleague Gračner explained this more precisely. And also on the amendment that you have proposed, Dr Šmidovnik says: "The proposed content of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group for the new 143rd Article is based on the same idea as the existing constitutional text that we want to amend, namely that the provinces are the creation of municipalities. They shall, however, be established formally by law, but on the basis of the transitional consent of the municipalities concerned. This idea is contrary to the essence of the province as a special type of local self-government community, with all the attributes of autonomy similar to the municipality. Such status can only be guaranteed by the state of law. The participation of the municipalities in the establishment of the provinces is necessary, but not by their consent, which means, by their decision and in particular in that qualified manner, which would probably never have occurred to the whole country." Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't believe us with a political colleague, please believe in the profession at this point, and I really ask you to support the positions that we have formulated and which compromise and lead to decentralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The Minister for European Affairs, Dr Potočnik, clearly and unequivocally stated that the establishment of the provinces is not a requirement of the European Union. The establishment of the province is a decision of us or of our own country of Slovenia. When a State decides whether or not to establish a province, this intermediate rate is said to have a clearly prepared elaboratory on financial implications, there are the negative and positive consequences of such a reorganisation of the functioning of the State. On the one hand, we know that this country has been extremely centralised in recent years. At this point, there is no ministry that would be willing to give up its responsibilities on a voluntary basis in order to be rescued by someone else, is said to be at a lower level. This is the biggest problem and challenge facing this country, this national assembly. It is said that the law must be directed in this direction, but first of all the changes to the Constitution, that it will be clear at the start as a white day and that the established position and the Members can have clear views as to what changes to the Constitution in the area of the provinces or what brings us the creation of landscapes, positive or negative consequences. By no means, I have repeatedly stressed this, by no means can this country agree to significantly increase the financial burden on the establishment of the provinces. It is unacceptable that the ministries would essentially retain all their powers and, on the other hand, that at the intermediate level, the so-called amphibian, they would become rich in the administration and, on the other hand, that it would be an attempt to some extent to carry out some of the tasks that the municipalities also have in mind. Of course, we can do it in the future. I mean, it would be a dangerous path. On the other hand, we need to know that if we are to reach effective landscapes, then we must have a clear financial picture ahead of us. A clear financial picture of what the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia represents. Another clear picture of the powers these provinces will have. And thirdly, whether the country will also give up its required human resources potential at the provincial level. Employment in ministries or other offices will have to be reduced if effective provinces are to be made. Otherwise, if there is no transfer of personnel to this intermediate level, the provinces will not play what we expect. We will also face additional financial burdens. Then it can be a different result. In addition, at this point, the municipalities, which are already being fed up in funding, will impose additional obligations on them to seek from their resources additional financial resources for their functioning. That would certainly be the wrong way. The correct route, I believe, is a staff redeployment, a financial redeployment from the state level to the provincial and, of course, a reallocation, as far as jurisdiction is concerned. The ministries will have to waive their powers of consent to appoint high school officials, not just primary schools, health homes and the like. All these tasks, if it is indeed the interest of the State to burden the Ministry, will, of course, have to be submitted by the ministries and even before this national assembly before the two-thirds majority adoption package. I would answer Mr. Tarchoon that our amendment to the constitutional commission is no speculation. We have already made clear in the Constitutional Commission's decision on this position that our thinking is what is the most important task for the State Assembly to accept the two-thirds majority of the legal matter. This should, according to our assessment, primarily be the way to finance, the way to determine the landscapes and, of course, also the participation of the municipalities in the decision-making of the area, the seat and the names of the provinces. What is involved in the congregation’s decision - making work? The fact that the law will also define the possibility that certain municipalities will be able to serve before the final proceedings is also a referendum decision in the so-called border areas. However, more or less it is known if we choose a model of 12 or 14 or 16 provinces around where they go and borders will go. In this case, as is customary in European countries, the German model should allow the border municipalities to decide by referendum which province they want to be in. If this national assembly does not allow them in the process, I believe that we will give a significantly lower level of decision-making to people, in what form of organizational form the second level of local self-government they wish to live and also to carry out their necessary life tasks as a service at the second stage of local self-government to municipalities where we know that, of course, there is also a prescribed tool for the referendum. I also cannot agree with Mr Terchoon's assessment that the fragmentation of Slovenia into too many new municipalities has been harmful. I can't agree with this thesis. Compared to neighbouring countries, Slovenia has fewer municipalities per population than neighbouring countries. Therefore, this argument cannot be held back. The municipalities also proved in their operations, one of course for a long time, the other less that the establishment of new municipalities was actually a positive project of this country was not a negative project. It is true, however, that in this way the ministries have acquired new and new tasks, since they now associate with 193 congregations and were previously 58. And that's actually true, and it's a bigger burden. Here I see no reason for hinting in this direction about any harm done to the establishment of congregations in the same number as we now have. Another issue is the question that is likely to need to be raised today, which is the so-called regionalisation of administrative units. In my opinion, it would be harmful for the administrative units that have come to life in this decade to receive them, in whatever way they concentrate or centralize them. Although this is not said in public, it has been a long-standing reflection in the area covered by the Ministry of Interior, saying that there would be fewer interlocutors here than they have today. I firmly believe that it is possible to rationalise business with administrative units also at the existing level. The fear is reversed, however, as has happened with the centralisation or abolition of the expositions of ministries where new names have been created instead of the exposure, we know that there has also been a reduction in the level of services to the public for certain services. And this is a fear that is still present. The next issue to be addressed is also the question of the development regions and the process of amending the Constitution. I certainly believe that these processes should take place at the same time. I am convinced that the law on coherent regional development, which has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure, is speeding up at that level, which is trying to institutionalise and administratively determine some of the tasks that should concern only the development cooperation of the municipalities. I therefore believe that all this legislation should be adopted in a package - consistent regional development, financing of landscapes, transfer of competences and so on. This is just a few thoughts on this constitutional change. I can say that the Slovenian People's Party's Group has three main elements in this package: a clear presentation of the financial implications, it is said, of what will be the financing of the provinces, whether the country will withdraw its portion of the cake it now receives and transfer it to the provincial level. Secondly, the human resources element is said to say whether the state will be willing to reduce its apparatus and, of course, to place it in the provincial part of this proportional part and, of course, the extent of its competence, and also the participation of the municipalities in the decision-making of the landscapes. If, of course, there will be a change to the Constitution and also legislation in this respect, then the Slovenian People's Party notes that the direction will be the right one. Otherwise, we probably will not go straight to the nose here on this project, and we will probably think carefully about whether it makes sense to start a project that, of course, does not have all the basic elements previously created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you very much. There must have been no doubt about it, and today it has not been heard that we need an intermediate level between the country and the congregations. It's a question of how to do that. There's two of them. I think there's still a third, not the one that's been talked about, but the path that probably combines each other. One way that we're talking about here is some way from the bottom up, we could call it, and the other way from the top down. It's probably not just one, it's not just the other, it's the combination of both. If only the way from below, as well as the end of the present constitution, was allowed, the proposal is also to change this, it could lead to some intermediate stage that is more similar to a debate circle or a group of pressure than actually an intermediate stage of decision-making on many things, leading this country and carrying out certain tasks. Thus, in my opinion that this is only done in a fine manner, it cannot be done, for it will be very precise to write down and, of course, put into law, what these provinces will do, what will be transferred there, so to speak, from the state level and what will also be transferred from the congregation level. At that time, of course, this organization will be able to live normally. So it is not a question of democratic entry into this regionalism, because in any way it will be necessary to take into account, of course, how certain areas go together, where there are common interests and even through this of course the will of people. But it's not only my judgment, and it's only without some other framework. Of course, we talk a lot about money, and there is a lot of truth to what has been said. But remember, I am deeply convinced that democratic decision-making must be and that centralism is not good. But democratic decision-making is not cheaper. It's an emergency, and I'm defending it, but it's not cheaper. Let us not make illusions that it is possible to make the matter cheaper by introducing one intermediate level than it is now. It can be more effective, and in the end it can also be cheaper because of this, but for just functioning, I am sure that this is not possible. So at this point in time, it is necessary to predict everything in advance how much it will cost, how many people, it simply, I don't think it's possible. And don't tell me that I'm in favor of centralism. I'm not in favor of saying it again. And I'm not in favor of the irritation of this country. On the contrary, both. But I'm sure there's no way to do that through the current constitutional dictatorship, so I plead to do it differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The fact is, at this point, there is always a repetition of the very same arguments that have already been heard at the first reading of constitutional changes in this place, both on the plenary and probably repeated in the public, as they were also repeated on the Constitutional Commission. The fact is that we are, I think, all of us united in the belief that, like things are in Slovenia, on the basis of this constitution and this legislation, the landscapes cannot be established. This cannot be done neither for the purpose of achieving the basic objectives nor for the possibility of exercising proper and consistent exercise of the original and delegated powers, nor for the purposes of financing, nor for the principles of governance. What will be the best division of Slovenia, today to explain at this time, I think it is inappropriate. This is, in my personal and deep conviction, to be left to further debate and legislation after the Constitution has been amended. I think that's exactly what we need to do. The Constitution must remove all obstacles to the establishment of such a different local level, the level of local self-government that it will give, I think we are also all convinced of the basic criteria or basic answers to key development issues. My personal conviction, which I have already said here, is that the primary objective must be followed, that the provinces should be strong, that this can be an appropriate response to one country, and that the other to the pressures of stronger centres and neighbouring countries, and that we must approach the search for an optimal relationship between the geographical design of Slovenia, social economic and infrastructure indicators and regional ownership. The fact is, people have somehow made an impression on what landscapes, at least in scope and so forth, they would like to have. However, this is where the key point and the key drawback of the whole process is. This, however, is attempted by colleagues from the SDS in a way that attempts to introduce and introduce changes into the Constitution and that is also what they want to do with the amendment to the position of the Constitutional Commission in order to establish the province in agreement with the qualified majority of municipalities in the area where the province would be established. Then, of course, also by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members in the National Assembly. Practice shows it's hard if it's not impossible. We know a large number of initiatives to establish landscapes of large, small, medium, fragmented, dispersed, all varieties have already been seen, and in fact there has been no way to reach the consensus of everyone in those areas that these proposals have actually given. If we are to go to congregations with a qualified majority or with a two - thirds majority of the votes of the congregational councillors to decide whether to go with other congregations to a higher form of local organization, I think we will be able to hold this wagon even further. In addition, I have experience that, on the initiative given about the establishment of the provinces, the mayors themselves have told the state to tell and determine what the provinces will be and also to tell the state, together with experts, what powers they should have. Let me say that this proposal to ensure that this process of establishing the landscapes takes place in this way makes it impossible, in fact, to produce the landscapes and will only complicate the creation of a second level of local self-government. And another opinion. I support the amendment to the draft position on the right of the indigenous minority in the province, because I personally believe that the text should also be included in these provisions in order to regulate the special rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities through the statutes of the province. I am confident that only in this way will it be possible to achieve a coordinated guarantee of the rights of national communities. Now each congregation does it for itself. This is not necessarily the same everywhere, but it certainly changes from one congregation to another. At the same time, this part of national jurisdiction could be handed over to the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you very much. With this, we have concluded the debate on the list of Members and Members declared. I'm also asking the government if he wants a word. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you. I would just like to remind you once again, given the debate that has been presented, that the issue of the province law has been put into preliminary consideration since 1999. It had already been concluded, i.e. in the National Assembly, in a previous reference that the debate could only be continued in the direction of constitutional changes, so that the basis given today in the Constitution could not be continued with the consideration of this law, as it was prepared. On this basis, that constitutional changes are necessary, we have also drawn up a proposal to amend the Constitution. And once again, in this proposal, together with the position of the Constitutional Commission, with the changes proposed by the Constitutional Commission, however, all the essential elements of the definition, both the status of the provinces and the way in which the provinces were established, are covered, in fact, by the basis of the definition of the work area and of course the obligation to establish the provinces or other levels of local self-government. It is possible to produce them simultaneously throughout the territory and on some of the same bases. This Government proposal, of course, allows decentralisation in line with the principle of subsidiarity and also allows the transfer of the implementation of state tasks to the provinces. After this change, as proposed by the government, all activities could be undertaken, both to complete the reform of local self-government and to complete the reform of the state administration, both between the state and the municipalities, in this area. In view of the debate, I would also draw attention to the fact that in all this time, while waiting for constitutional changes, the government has adopted several documents related to the establishment of the provinces. We have made these documents known to all the Members. This was quite a few of the government's conclusions, as well as the working material of the Lands Act, which listed all the fundamental powers that these provinces were supposed to exercise. As I say, the parliamentary groups have also been able to convince themselves that this is a government or all ministries, that these powers have been confirmed and that it is indeed a, I will say, a true form of decentralisation, as was the very goal of the government when establishing the provinces. Only with regard to the participation of the congregations. The European Charter states that when it comes to matters relating to local communities, the opinion is to include local communities or municipalities in order to ask for their opinion. I would like to point out that it has never been the intention of the government to exclude the congregations from this process in any way. It was suggested that the opinion of the municipal council should be asked when it came to consensus that we could speak in some cases, for example in the case of the Sava region, when it comes to a small number of municipalities, about a form of veto when it comes to consensus, and that, at that time, the same case could lead to the blockade of the entire regionalisation process or could also lead to the fact that the project could not be carried out because of one such case. That is why, of course, I would like to point out that the municipalities must be included, that this has always been the position of the government, that it goes here, I will say, about the different forms of this cooperation and that, even in our draft, that is, in the proposal of our law on landscapes, in the the thesis or in the work materials, this procedure is envisaged and the municipalities are involved in the whole process. We believe that, in this case, the foundations laid down in the European Charter on Local Self-Government are also sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate with this. I turn to the debate on the amendments to the position to be taken on the basis of the review of the amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law EPA702/3. This is one of the letters on which the amendments are made. First of all, I am putting an amendment to the position of the Constitutional Commission, the first position of the Constitutional Commission, which was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is on the front page, sequence number one, to be perfectly clear. Who wants a word? Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have already stated, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, our attitude towards this amendment, because it is an amendment that has already been tabled as an additional position on the Constitutional Commission. It is a fundamental difference between the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission and, above all, the difference in the majority required for the adoption of the law. In addition to the Constitutional Commission's adoption, the amendment stipulates that there is a need for agreement, unlike the Constitutional Commission, which speaks of an opinion, on the qualified majority of municipalities in the area where the province would be established, taking into account both the number of municipalities and the number of their inhabitants. I estimate that by doing so, we are focusing on the establishment of the landscapes, mainly in order to ensure that in this area, this is my assessment, nothing will be done in the future. An important difference is that the law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members regulates the procedure for establishing the provinces. In the position of the Constitutional Commission, a proposal is made for the adoption of the law by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, namely the law setting out the area of the provinces. By a simple majority, however, the National Assembly would adopt a law setting out the jurisdiction of the province, the administration of the province and the procedures for the establishment of the provinces, as well as a special law on the financing of the provinces. That is also what the Minister understood when we spoke about it on the Constitutional Commission. I think that this was also the first agreed position with the Slovenian People's Party, and then the matter changed slightly. Now, as set out in this Decision, two-thirds of all Members will have to adopt both laws, as opposed to the proposal adopted by the Constitutional Commission, two-thirds of the Members present. This means, of course, that if the presence in the national assembly or in the hall is full in size with the same majority, it is the majority required for the adoption or amendment of the Constitution. The differences between opinion and consensus, I think, should be highlighted in particular. These are also the reasons why I will support the basic text of the Constitutional Commission's position, but I will not support the amendment that we are now discussing by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the third position. So I am putting forward an amendment to the third position of the Constitutional Commission in the debate. We have three amendments here. And, of course, I'm putting all three to the debate. On the other hand, you have a Slovenian Democratic Party written as a proponent. A mistake, writing a human sea. First he has the word Mr Sok, then Mr Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u64	In Novi Slovenije we have already found that the People's Party is a true proponent. But once again, I would like to say that it is unusual to hear in these debates by Members of the ruling coalition that the opposition is behind a centralisation, which they themselves find too large in this country, and that it has actually become harmful. I would like to listen very much to all the strong arguments that have led to this position being centralised in this way. So that would be really interesting not so flat-rate. I understand, however, that this is some kind of government comfort and a ruling coalition that has carried it out all the time. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced that such political, institutionalization of the provinces through a change of constitution will in fact mean only one more degree of centralisation. If the congregations now functioned: the congregation - the state, they will now be: the congregation - the province - the state. This also, of course, means that significantly less resources will be available for the functioning of the municipalities alone, and these are already extremely stingy compared to other countries. Opinion of the General Assembly. The opinion of the congregations as non-binding does not mean that the congregations can cooperate. The opinion is something purely different from consent, whether the opinion is taken into account or not. It's something like that if I say, "I won't need it." So either you give an opinion or you don't give it, or the proposer takes it into consideration. In fact, by proposing an opinion, I think it is a democratic deficit in this country, when the state, the government, the proponents want to avoid responsibilities and then get some opinions, so that they can then cover themselves on the basis of these opinions, because they have cooperated, and this is not really the right and decisive form of cooperation. As far as these amendments are concerned, we will not support these amendments in New Slovenia. No one, actually. The second amendment that the province's statute should also regulate the specific rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities - we are convinced that the special rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian communities must be taken care of by the State. It would be bad if we were to transfer this to the provinces, so Prekmurje would have to take care of the rights in the face of all the problems he has. This means that we would receive even less resources for our development. Well, we're sure the state has to do it. Even worse is the third amendment, which states that in the area of municipalities where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live, provinces with special status would be formed. So this is someone, I would say, privileged in this Slovenian space; it is said that autonomous minorities must have some additional rights, we also have them, and I think in Slovenia it is well cared for, it is a pity that ours are not so cared for, so those who are in Italy and Austria [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I think that this is not a matter of landscapes, that it is in fact a matter of state and that this country must be resolved in a different way than is proposed here by these two amendments. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you, Franci Rokavec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I have already said something about the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Of course, if the ruling majority actually finds that they want to establish the provinces, then we expect in the Slovenian People's Party that you will also support our amendment, which in fact means that we will not buy a cat in a frog in this National Assembly in the context of a project establishing the provinces, that we will actually want to have all the analyses on the financial positive and negative consequences of the establishment of the provinces on the table, that such a law is adopted by a two-thirds majority, that, of course, human resources are also clearly distributed between the country and the provincial level and, of course, that the transfer of powers is clearly defined. Everything else will be the creation of landscapes in mind, or whatever the government has also adopted in one of its conclusions at one of last year's meetings, it is said that the so-called possible experimental contribution of competence by one third per year can be an operational programme, but it must have a pre-established strategy of what will actually be transferred from the state to the provincial level. It is therefore also necessary to adopt a law to be adopted by this State Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members present. However, the second issue concerning this amendment is the question of the participation of the municipalities in determining the area, name and place of establishment of the provinces. It is not only what follows in the next paragraph that the congregation should give its opinion, but, according to our assessment, the congregations should give their position, of course, in the preceding phase, when the assembly begins the procedure. Then the law must define the procedure for the participation of municipalities in decision-making, first at the level of codecision in the course of the formation of the provinces, here are the most sensitive issues of the so-called border municipalities, here the law must define and give the possibility of referendum decision where, of course, the municipalities decide which of the provinces of course they want to live in - and finally, what will be the way of participation in the management of the province of municipalities after the establishment. This is a very crucial question of what will actually be the role or first stage of local self-government up to the second stage. Finally, allow me to comment on the content of the second amendment by the parliamentary groups - LDS, the United List and DeSUS. I believe that the effective provision of special rights, indigenous, Italian and Hungarian national communities must be and must remain an exclusive task of the State in the first place, in no case should the State delegate its powers to a different level, which would certainly be contrary to what the State actually wants to provide to both national communities by means of a constitution and not place its burdens at a lower level. As this amendment has been written, it can be read and read in this sense. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Thank you. And my colleague, Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group or I myself will primarily support the text, as proposed by the Constitutional Commission, but I think it would be right to adopt the amendments on the problem which was originally raised by representatives of both minorities, Italy and Hungary, and which were subsequently summarised by the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. I'd like to talk again about things that we've told many times and talk about things in a way that's not right, at least after my knowledge, no, I'd like to point out a few things. First. It is undeniable that Slovenia is one of the few countries which has local self-government organised at only one level, but not between the municipality and the country is also an intermediate level of local self-government. There is no doubt that it has recommended that this intermediate level should also be organised. Second. There is no doubt that the profession has indisputably found that, with the current solutions of the province or another form of the second stage of local self-government, it is not possible to organise any other than the contractual community of the municipality. This is just a conclusion of the profession, and we can talk to the politicians as we want, and in the end it would be right to put something into the profession. So if this second conclusion is correct, if any changes to the current constitutional regime are not made, then the provinces as a second-degree local community will not be able to organise the country as a whole. Third. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, wonder why one of us, as well as the government, thinks that their views, which constitute an unwillingness to constitutional change, mean preventing the organisation of a second stage of local self-government. It means, as long as there are no constitutional changes, this cannot be organised. And constitutional changes are possible by a two-thirds majority, and neither the previous nor the current coalition has this two-thirds majority. And since you have so far - and I hope that there will be changes - you have not been prepared to accept any proposal in this direction, it is so difficult to say that there is no fault in us that the formation of the provinces has not occurred. It's political justice, just, please, don't talk about not being guilty. It's because there was simply no such willingness and desire. Next, I think it's the fourth time. To talk about the fact that there is a very large and significant difference between a two-thirds absolute majority and a two-thirds majority of those present is free of charge. If a part that in any way opposes a certain solution ensures its presence in the Chamber, then the two-thirds majority of all Members are very soon also - and the equation with it is drawn in relation to the two-thirds majority of those present. Because we also provide a higher two-thirds majority with attendance, and if we are at the end of 90, even though only a two-thirds majority are present, this becomes an absolute two-thirds majority. So we are aware that the derogation to the two-thirds majority of those present is not so great that we can only say that, yes, because it is worth adopting a constitutional change, because it also provides solutions in the legislation, only if we agree on the content together. And now for the latest proposals made by the People's Party. It is right to say, whether you believe it or not, although this has been said several times, and there is also written evidence that we have taken so long, with regard to the text of possible constitutional changes in the coalition, primarily because we were looking for any formulation with which the Slovenian People's Party would be willing to agree, and would also be willing to give its votes for this constitutional change, because we simply knew that without this two-thirds majority there was no final change to the constitution. And the text proposed by the Constitutional Commission was also proposed together with the consent of the Slovenian People's Party - I will not say with enthusiasm - but with agreement, expecting that this is the solution that ensures that the provinces will not be established without the consent of the two-thirds national assembly, but not that a systemic solution to the establishment of the provinces will not be adopted without a two-thirds majority. Because what the Slovenian People's Party amendment is now proposing means, in fact, that we will discuss the content of the constitutional solution once again. Because now we will say that we have the right to talk about it without absolute, but with the relative two-thirds majority of it means something, I said earlier - and when we talk about it, we will talk again about the system: how to set up a system through which the landscapes can be shaped. This is much, much more than just defining the provinces in the cooperation of the congregations. And it is probably right to say that this is the last attempt, to forget what was agreed a few months ago, could also be formal reasons for changing the position of the Slovenian People's Party in decision-making in the National Assembly. It is only right that she says that for this reason she has put forward that any solution that will mean the establishment of the provinces will finally be disabled again. I understand the political reasons of the Slovenian People's Party. It would only be right to say that it has no interest, because it is better for it, that there are no provinces that would mean the possibility of coordination and possible partial transfer of the powers of the State to them, because it is better for all the municipalities we have in a way that we can do: some more, some less successfully in view of the very large differences in the capacity to deal with these issues, as have been the result of the territorial organisation that we have set up with the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I will give two more speakers a word and then to the Minister for Certain Explanations. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Yeah, there's been a lot of interference with the preface. In fact, the Slovenian People's Party made it clear at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, when discussing the provinces, that we would support the position, but that we would continue in the further phase, and that we would then explain, complement this position with our proposal on the area of financing, of course, and the way in which the provinces were established. Comrade Potts, if you don't believe this, look at the magnetogram of the sitting of the Constitutional Commission when we discussed this, and you will find out. There are fewer priorities with you, with today's amendment of LDS, the United List and DeSUS. There has never been a talk about this matter until today: not in the coalition, not on the Constitutional Commission. These are the changes that are probably implying that the likely ruling structure in the National Assembly is not in the interest of actually constitutional change. I say that with a clear conscience. To this day it was possible to think that you are seriously counting, but with this amendment you have clearly demonstrated your intention to make a real resistance to actually changing the constitution in the area of the provinces. And that's where you eat incoherence. Not the indiscretion of the People's Party, which has clearly insisted on these issues from the outset. And Mr Potč, more, more problematic is the issue of the financing decision, the way in which the province is established for this country is more important than how many landscapes we will have, what will be its name and where the province will be established. This is also important, but the biggest question is the financing of whether the public burden will actually be borne by this country if it does not pre-arrange all other tasks, both human resources and the transfer of powers and so on. These are the issues which, according to our assessment, should be discussed first, only then continue in the second phase when the procedure for establishing the provinces is being discussed operationally. Ask the Minister of Finance and you will be given an answer as to what his clear thinking is about establishing landscapes and financial implications. The answer will not be so clear that all things are clear. Things need to be put on the table and only then determined what positive and negative results follow. And another thing that has been said many times today and colleague Yuri has also pointed out that we have a second-degree tradition. That's not true! We may have it in some individual cases, but we know, for the most part, that even in the previous country, the second rate has never been as it should have been. And we're starting the story from the beginning, so there's absolutely no need for caution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you. My friend Kontic has the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] You want a replica? Well, please. Comrade Kontic, hold on a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Mr. Rokavec, your treachery really has no limit, no limit, because you compare pears and apples. Coalitionly coordinated was the text proposed. I have before me a review of the proposed texts, proposals for views on the draft constitutional law and the amendment to the position of the Constitutional Commission, 19.11.2003, working material for the 14th session of the Constitutional Commission. Here are the proposed views of LDS, the United List, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. And it says what it says. Now don't say you haven't changed your mind, because you have the right, just not to lie, not to lie! Because lying is not Christian, at least it is not moral for a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u73	It's a replica of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Yes, Mr. Potts, the first thing is, like you nothing binds to us, and nothing binds us to you. Is that right? Here. But we were so principled that we had already announced our concerns on the Constitutional Commission and in which direction we would build our efforts forward. To this day, you have not mentioned in a single word that any question for you about the provision of specific rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities is in the process of adopting constitutional changes in the area of the provinces. This is a question, which is why your credibility is less than ours, but of course you will continue to say it, as you have been saying throughout this period, always looking for the least possible deviation, and you yourself have sinned greatly. Well, we forgive you for that, but it's not state-of-the-art.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Comrade Kontic Boyan has a word to discuss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you very much. See, there was one period when a certain coalition agreed and this agreement was also confirmed by the Constitutional Commission and discussed today. The amendment, which has been tabled by the People's Party with all principle, the singing of principle, of course, and by the coalition parties that today form this ruling coalition, is not, for example, in line with this, because it cannot be coordinated because you are no longer in the coalition - it is not possible to reconcile this proposal coalition with you, but we can coordinate it as it can be coordinated within the parliamentary parties, when it does not matter who is in the coalition, who is in the opposition. And this is one topic, the local self-government of the second degree, where we should find a broader consensus than just coalition consensus. And if we had kept all these references about supporting the provinces, the path to this goal was different, probably today's positions and after a while the constitutional law would have been adopted, but deep down in me it is not going to be so, even though I will try to do so. However, if the principle of the United List of Social Democrats was introduced by an amendment, which we have tabled together with other coalition parties, and where it states that the province in which the areas of the municipalities where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live is included, the statute of the province also regulates the specific rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities - if the principle of the party is taken into account, it should be taken into account. I only ask you, Members of the Slovenian People's Party in one person at this time: is it a basic position for you if we accept this amendment, acceptable whether you will vote in favour of the basic position if this amendment, which was subsequently tabled, is not adopted. The difference between the basic text which has been written and which is discussed today in the text which has been marked or approved on the Constitutional Commission and the text of the Constitutional Commission and the amendments tabled by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party is only one difference. The difference is how to make most laws. You are proposing to adopt a substantive law on the provinces and a law establishing areas with the same majority, a two-thirds majority of the Members present. However, the basic text provides that the law shall be adopted by a simple majority, as other laws are adopted, and that the designation of the areas of the provinces shall be determined or adopted by law requiring a two-thirds majority of the Members present. And when we also talked about the opinion, because we all know that the opinion is not binding, but it has a message meaning. If in the province that we want to design and define by law - and this also provides for the basic text - all local communities are asked what they think about this province, and if most answer negatively, then the legislator will probably consider whether it makes sense to impose on these local communities a province that does not fit them. If nothing else - let me say what I said in the opening debate - if nothing else, at least political responsibility follows.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will now give my word to the Minister, Dr. Rad Bohinc, in the order in which I have applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize to the honourable Members and Members for having had to be absent because of my pre-agreed health obligations. I'd say next. I think the moment is approaching when we actually decide whether we are for the provinces or not for the provinces. Actually, that's what this is about. The Constitutional Commission has harmonised some text, which has been harmonised with a high majority, and I propose that you support this text. This text goes in the direction of the People’s Party, the two-thirds law. However, on those issues that were then raised as crucial when it comes to the issue of the headquarters area, and not on all other issues that are now referred to as the necessity of the second two-thirds law. I am afraid that the Slovenian People's Party does not have 60 votes for such an amendment, as was 60 votes for the opinion, the position of the Constitutional Commission on the proposal we are talking about today. So that something can happen after five years - in 1999 - it began when a finding of constitutional change was adopted - that after five years again after a large number of different debates, professional, political, parliamentary, we will not achieve what has already been found in this House five years ago that constitutional changes are necessary. That is why I think that today is actually a decision and classification between those who are for the regionalisation of Slovenia and those who have not or have never been sincere about it. Therefore, I really suggest that we try to obtain a two-thirds majority for the proposal of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek and then Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I am surprised and opposed to these amendments under number 2 and 3, although the applicants at number 3 understand, but this phrase "forms the provinces with a special statute", the association of this special statute, this is significantly different in Slovenia and the associations are completely different than in neighbouring Italy. This, if my historical memory does not deceive me, somehow links me to the special statutes of the disputed market territory. This points to a protectorate, and we cannot afford it in Slovenia. The minorities are protected by the Constitution in our country, and in order to introduce other specific extraterritorial units, it would be my intention to attack the integrity of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is an act which generally defines its contents within the framework of the articles. In particular, in general, we have come across this problem when experts in the expert committee have given us this explanation when adopting European articles. And, Your Honor, I think that from the generality that the government gave in the first decree of Article 143, when it said, "The province is a wider self-government local community. The province is established by law to carry out local matters of wider importance and to carry out certain matters of regional importance by law", we have exceeded our views today in three new paragraphs. And these three new paragraphs, at least that's how I understood them, respected them, are a compromise to all the in-depth debates we have had on the Constitutional Commission since 2001. Now it's written at the end of the year, somewhere in 2004. We're not talking about this for the first time. Finally, Mr Minister and his team have been preparing in depth possible legislation that has been debated in the area, I think that the whole of Slovenia in all local communities, which are certainly an extremely important actor in this game. And, truly, the representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, here I think we have reached a compromise with you. And the record that builds on this basic government text is just adopted because you were afraid that some ordinary majority in Parliament would at some point form the landscapes not by measure of people, not by measure of municipalities - as you said. And I think that the opinion of the municipal councils of the congregations is binding for every political suit that will continue to form a responsible coalition. The state cannot afford that the opinion of the local communities does not respect such an important issue, this was an addition, an addition to the fear expressed in the three-year debates we had. Finally, the addition is also in paragraph which states that the province shall be established by law establishing the area, the seat and the name of the province and which shall be adopted by the State Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. This was at some point in the coalition, I think clearly agreed and, as I understand it, was enough to support 60 Members and Members, as much as it is necessary to gather them to amend Article 143 of the Constitution. Finally, we also held many reasoned discussions with Members and Members of the two and other opposition parties. Even progress has been made, but this amendment shows that you did not want to come to progress in the opposition, at least in the Slovenian coalition. I think that your goal is not decentralisation, but to those who are responsible for the development of this country today and this moment with the necessary majority, to prevent us from accepting anything smart, and then with your finger you can point at us and say, "They failed again because they are arrogant because they are arrogant, because as a cylindrical, they are pressuring this matter, but they fail because they do not listen to us." We wanted to listen to you, and these two new deliveries should convince you, according to the position of the expert commission. The landscapes cannot be established from below because no one in this world has done so! Even Slovenia in this world space can't be "unique" and do it the way you want it! That's not going to work. But all the other guards are now installed. And once again, I stress what I said earlier in my debate: this is an extremely, extremely important social policy issue. If we fail to resolve it now after three years of long-standing intense debates within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, the honourable Members and Members - what will we leave for future generations, for the next composition of this Parliament? To try to get the same content back into the constitution for the next four years. Here was the expert commission that helped us, and at least I, with my humble behaviour, always, truly, with full responsibility to listen to the professional argument and guide me in finding the most balanced solutions for our country. Here they were united: Article 143 needs to be amended, even if they do not agree with the additions that we have now incorporated in the two articles within the framework of the positions, and the amendments of the other groups of Members have a totally negative position. So please, indeed, after all the professional effort in the last five, six years, as the Minister said: "Let us open this space, let us open the door for regionalisation, which we need to know will take place for the next five to ten years." Things aren't going that fast, but if there's no constitutional change, it'll never be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you very much. You wanted to. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. First, in the past days, actually, there have been a lot of words spoken by LDS, the United List, DeSUS, that the majority should listen to the minority. And in this case, I expect you to actually listen to the minority in this National Assembly. Last year, a year ago, we passed a law, a change to the constitution, in which, of course, we wrote that a two-thirds majority of Members and Members of Parliament would determine a higher quorum on the basis of a law setting out European issues between the national assembly and the government. Usually in this House, when consensus is reached, this National Assembly is easier to adopt even the quorum prescribed by law, which is called a two-thirds majority of those present, rather than a simple law in which it is not necessary for the ruling majority to seek consensus. And in this case, I was seriously asked if it was a serious intention to get to the provinces, why should we not adopt a law with a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members who spoke about the financing of the provinces and the way in which they were formed. Today it has been said several times: we have no tradition of establishing landscapes. Why don't we reach a bigger consensus here? Why could there be a vote in the area of funding? Why might there be a vote, or is this not a bad road trip for the functioning of the provinces? And finally, it is not true that if we write down that we are adopting a law with a two-thirds majority of the Members present, that it is the same quorum as the constitution! It's not true, it's lower! It can only be lower if the interest of all Members and Members in this National Assembly is so great in the adoption of this law that, of course, it will be a quorum of 90, that is true. But that will be the final decision, today we decide on this, or we turn on the further green light to change the constitution in this area. And responsibility is probably in this case not only in the minority in this national assembly, but also in particular in the majority. Sometimes it is wise to listen to the minority’s proposal in this national assembly. These are the dilemmas and responsibilities which are, of course, before all Members and Members; but it is certainly said on the spot, at least personally, I do not want them to accept and receive a 'cat in a frog' in the process of adopting the landscapes. All financial consequences, positive and negative, let's keep it on the table first, and then we decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Well, I also have hope that this will happen, as Mr Presbyterian spoke about, that they will also listen in the minority. I am sorry that this sentence, the sentence laid down, has so upset a party or all the parties and I do not understand how you think that we live somewhere between the earth and the sky - we do not live on earth and there is a congregation that has its tasks in relation to nationality and also the province will have its tasks in relation to nationality because these nationalities will be part of a certain province. And, logically, laws must be implemented and then the province must also say its own, and it must also have a way to exercise these rights. Otherwise, absolutely nothing more is written in this sentence than in the present constitution - nothing more. We just wanted it to be somehow recorded in the province. On the other hand, see the Winter Agreement, the London Memorandum, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Nationalities and could also list, all of these documents talk about it, and nothing has been God-awful to say that we also expect the creation of the provinces to be of the same nationality. And this is not about anyone - I don't know what he meant, Mr Jerovšek said it would be a real protectorate or something. I mean, if it were, it wouldn't be wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you. Franz Kangler, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I listened very carefully to my colleague Irma's performance about our amendment. It is true that she has such an opinion, but I would like to point out that I am in favour of Slovenia getting a very small number of provinces, and I am personally interested in three provinces. I have my reasons for three provinces. Given that I am close to Austria at home to know the situation, it is also necessary to strengthen Slovenia through this system. However, colleague Irma, I must be honest with you if I am afraid of something in this country, but I am afraid of the way the landscapes are financed. This is the most pressing problem of this legislation and there is one guarantee because we need to reach a compromise to ensure that the financing of the landscapes is guaranteed to all on equal terms. Is it settled in this area, or will the provinces be financed through a percentage of income? What are those criteria that are going to be? Given that colleague Potrč says that some of us are lying - I would also like to challenge him to tell Slovenes and Slovenes how the minister will ensure the financing of the provinces. Is it in this way that certain provinces need to be ripped out, centralised, capital removed from those centres where there is still something healthy, then arranged, adopted a land law, and there will be no financial compensation in the financing of the provinces in such a way that one rich province and the other poor, because they have a poor economy, low personal income, a large economic crisis, a social crisis, unemployment on the march? That's the problem - in what way? The same problem is with the local community and it is known exactly what the left party wants or what the ruling, most powerful party wants - to reduce the number of municipalities, to strangle the local community in the countryside, to concentrate large cities, and we are not even able to adopt in this national council a law on the financing of municipalities, where they have cities such as Maribor, Celje, Novo mesto and others, I could also count Ptuj, great problems regarding the financing of some programmes, which are very dependent on the way and the adoption of a law on the financing of municipalities. That is why I will support this amendment myself, and I think if you are prepared to compromise, because you always promise and say you are for compromises - show compromise today! Accept our compromise, and I am sure that the two-thirds majority province law will also be adopted if we accept this dictatorship, even in the National Assembly, if it is adopted in a compromise manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Time's up. Time's up. Replica, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I've got it written down. [[...]] But the replica has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, I share your concerns. The financing of landscapes, the financing of local communities, the financing of all public needs in our country is the most important issue and the most sensitive issue. But we can't because of your fear that someone will do something that won't be good, destroy the whole system! The Law on Community Financing shall be adopted by this State Assembly by a simple majority. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Budget, the Law on Public Finances, which tells us how to share 1,400 billion public funds, is adopted by a simple majority. There is no reasonable reason for the constitution for the law on the financing of the provinces - we accept your argument, it is fear. Mr Kangler, we cannot break these system regulations and make the law on the financing of the provinces much more difficult than the law on the financing of municipalities on the other hand. That's one answer to your question. How, what's the relationship, Mr. Kangler? This relationship will depend directly on the delegated tasks of the State, the centralised countries to the second level of local self-government. Please read what will be the essential and fundamental task of the region or the province: performing the tasks of regional importance! And the delegated tasks of local communities that go beyond the level of the individual congregation! And if you don't believe me, Mr Kangler, I have the least here, Mr Kangler, I have three hundred reviews of the regulation of the second degree of local self-government in the Member States of the European Union three hundred times. And it's very different, but the second level of local self-government is taking part in public funds. In the Netherlands, for example, the share of public consumption of municipalities is 22% in total public consumption. Of this proportion, 89% of municipalities and the rest of the regions receive municipalities. There are a lot of cases like this in these brochures. And our pattern will be similar to these patterns, not only similar, it will depend on what we will find - that what is now centrally decided by the state would be more rational and more balanced with the interests of citizens and citizens to decide regions. And the money will go, believe me, at least after I've known this stuff, and I've been dealing with it intensively for four years, especially from the state to the secondary level. From the locals, however, only what will be a typical local authority will exceed the local community’s borders. So no fear for basic local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Quiet Run, I thought you had a debate, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'm not going to try to convince anyone, with principle, because that's what I am. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Is it allowed, Mr. Kelemina? Your strong voice is heard here too. I just realized that there is no point in talking about fundamental issues. I'm going to read a valid reason for the position of the People's Party. On the journalist's question whether they will accept the Slovenian People's Party as their coalition, Janša replied: "Lakmus's paper of principle of this party will support or support proposed constitutional changes." It's all clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Thank you very much. A colleague of Beumann's has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Mr. Potts just said everything was clear. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Please! Please don't take the floor, Comrade Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Mr Potts has just said that everything is clear - but not everything is clear. In particular, it is not clear that the representatives of the People's Party or the representative of the People's Party did not reply to Mr Kontic's question as to how the party would have acted in the event of an amendment not to vote on national minorities. And I'm going to say, "I don't have an answer for myself." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Nobody wants to talk anymore. Minister? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I'm breaking this agenda. At 15.15 hours we will continue on the 1st item of the agenda, this is a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law [[EPA 365 / III]] . Thank you for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u98	We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF A PROCEDURE TO CHANGE THE STOP OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE DRAFT KINGDOM LAW, EPA 365-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 44 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first signed by Borut Pahor. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate the procedure for amending Article 44 of the Constitution and to postpone the discussion on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission from the following meetings. The draft constitutional law was examined by the Constitutional Commission and provided views for admission to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Representative of the Government, Mrs Ksenia Mihovar Globokar, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Legal Service, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me briefly explain the Government's view that it supports the proposed amendment of the law, because it considers that this change actually gives us a formal legal basis for everything that will have to be settled not only in this area when it comes to candidateing or participating in the management of this country, but it also opens up other issues or the possibility of resolving the equal treatment of both sexes in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you for this brief supplementary explanation. And we would move on to a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. I give the floor to Mrs Majdi Zupan for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Constitution in the part where we want to participate in laying the groundwork for equal opportunities for men and women to participate in the procedures for candidateing the elected authorities of representative authorities at national and local level. In principle, we accept the proposal of a group of Members with the first-signed Borut Pahor to initiate a procedure to amend Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by forming the proposed text of the amendment of that Article as a new fourth paragraph of Article 43 of the Constitution, with the word "may" being deleted. Indeed, the Slovenian Constitution allows every citizen and every citizen to have the right to vote and be elected or elected, which gives him the opportunity to be involved in the process of managing public affairs. But the letter on the paper, even though in the constitution, is not enough. Additional measures are needed, including by marriage and, in the first place, by amending the Constitution, since any law would encourage the candidature of men and women would be inconsistent with the Constitution. The fact is that women who represent the largest population and cooperate with two thirds of the social gross product are disproportionately represented in the beloved representative bodies. In the policy area, which is a traditional male area, women are few. In our Parliament, the proportion of women is only 13%, which is lower than the European average. In the 30 municipal councils of 193 after the 2002 elections, not a single woman. There is no woman in the Slovenian parliamentary delegation of observers in the European Parliament. Fortunately, there will be at least one after 1 May, which is also possible because of efforts to make these changes. Also, the number of ministers in our government is low compared to the current and future members of the European Union. Following the departure of the Minister for Economic Affairs, this city is still to be occupied by men. We believe that the balanced representation of men and women in politics is also a democratic gain, as we believe that the active action of women in public life means a different culture of governance, which can also be better, as it opens up new themes and new aspects and gives greater sensitivity to individual areas. The Constitution and the law will not in themselves settle this issue. It must change its mind and remove the prejudices that are still full of men and women. There is also a need for appropriate economic incentives, institutions, services, services to facilitate women's work in public and professional life. To make it easier and without feeling guilty that a family will suffer, to make a decision about politics. We believe that a greater proportion of women in the management of public affairs can have a significant impact on the better mood and state of mind in society with other democratic values. However, the measures to ensure this must be feasible, weighed and consistent with the general situation and political situation in society. As we say, our parliamentary group for constitutional changes is open in the proposed sense. It should even be acknowledged that the mood for this issue is even improved by men’s work. It is certainly our list of candidates for the European Parliament elections, which we have already made public early enough and on which three of the seven candidates are women and the first woman in the second place has helped with a different thinking and a more appropriate approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Vojk Celigo to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Madam Government Representative, Honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The balanced representation of both genders in the election run to state authorities and local community bodies is important and necessary in view of the support introduced by the proposal for a constitutional change. Although various international legal instruments oblige us to ensure equal opportunities for both sexes, the representation of women in beloved organs in Slovenia is still more symbolic than not. The proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended to make efforts at the principle level to promote equality between women and men in the elections, would certainly be the first step towards equal representation of both sexes in the management of public affairs. Although the Constitution already provides in Article 14 for the principle of equality before the law, which is also applicable to sex, in all these years the article in force in this area has not moved to the benefit of women, as far as running for elected bodies is concerned. Statistics on gender representation in political decision-making are also helpful, far from balanced representation. We therefore conclude that Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not sufficient to realize what we want and we do not agree with those who feel otherwise. In the DeSUS Group, support for ensuring equal opportunities for equal representation of women and men in the management of public affairs is not questionable, but we believe that the formulation of a constitutional change is not about "de facto" equality, but, as the title itself says, to promote it. This is also the content of the proposed amendment, since it is limited only to candidateing, and in addition the wording of the text does not bind in any way, but rather inadvertently, the programme creates only an option. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed change is welcome, because it can also help to change the mentality that is still in power in Slovenia, that is, that politics is mainly the domain of men. Of course, only the principle level will not be sufficient if, in addition to the Constitution, there is no change in legislation, sub-legislative and other relevant acts. Various incentives would also be welcome, i.e. measures which, as defined by the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men, with a view to creating equal opportunities in a particular area of social life, justifiably introduce different treatment between men and women. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are aware of the importance of this issue, so we believe that all aspects of the proposed constitutional change should be considered. We know what dilemmas arise when we consider the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which must certainly be taken into account. Positive discrimination can be negative for someone and we need to achieve that we do not cross borders. It is therefore necessary to establish a substantive equality between the sexes. Equality before the law is a feature of modern law, the foundation of justice and one of the essential values of law. It is up to us to try to put it in our legal order, in which case from above down. In the DeSUS Group, we support a more decisive step towards a more balanced gender representation in representative bodies, as well as in other public decision-making bodies and, finally, in other areas of social life. Since we believe that the proposed constitutional change helps to achieve the desired objective, we will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we expect the National Assembly to support the proposal for a position formulated by the Constitutional Commission and thus take the next step to amend Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since the United List of Social Democrats has already taken a firm stand for measures to encourage and ensure equal opportunities for men and women to run for elected representative bodies at national and local level. This is particularly true at a time when the general acceptability of such efforts has been confirmed at least on two occasions, this being the case with the high support of the proposal to amend the Constitution and, in particular, with the adoption of amendments to Articles 15 and 16 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which provides only for the possibility of candidateing, although it has not provided for more elected women in itself. That women are under a critical mass of representation in politics, and also wherever they are formed and taken for the lives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, is a well-known and statistically proven fact. The experience of European countries shows that without positive measures, there will be no more women in politics, and their numerical presence in representative and legislative bodies is an important factor, since it is the only thing that enables effective co-decision, but it must, according to the findings, exceed the critical mass, which is at least 30% representation. Although the position of the European Socialist Party is known to be parity representation. The reflection on the future of Europe is therefore increasingly focused on the question of what the European Union will bring to people, how the values recorded in the Constitutional Treaty will affect the lives of all, not just political elites. And the absence of a majority of the population in this is noticeable, individual women who can participate in decision-making cannot replace women as excluded majority groups. If women in the European Parliament are on average represented in an appropriate percentage, their representation in other key decision-making places is significantly lower. European Commission Vice-President Neil Kinnock, on a recent visit to Slovenia, asked how measures will achieve better representation of women in decision-making positions and in other responsible and professionally demanding functions in the European Commission, replied that, in equal skills and conditions, women would have priority over male candidates. However, in order to achieve their full efficiency, it is necessary to ensure an adequate working situation, since the worker in these places is longer and harder than usual. This means that it is necessary to provide child care to stores, postal and banking services. Therefore, experience from other European countries is instructive. In laws, the stated equality in itself does not yet constitute good practice. While Slovenia has signed various international instruments, adopted among others a law on equal opportunities between women and men, provisions on labour relations, on sexual inviolability and could still be listed. Before adoption, there is a proposal for a law on equal treatment. In the UK Group, however, we are pleased to note that the near ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, signed on 10 December 1999 as one of the 23 Member States of the United Nations, has also been announced. We have already warned about the need for ratification. Greater participation of women in decision-making processes cannot be expected naturally. For example, it should take local experience with local elections. The percentage of elected saints is rising too slowly, one percent in each election. It has already been said that there are no women in 30 municipal councils. Therefore, special measures, so-called positive measures, are necessary. And the proposed amendment allows them to be placed as originally envisaged, either in Article 44 or in Article 43, as the Constitutional Commission also concluded in a public presentation of opinions. With such a provision, Slovenia will be no exception. Among the 15 members of the European Union, ten Member States are familiar with a specific provision which speaks of equal opportunities for women and men or parity democracy or positive measures. To be more precise, the principle of equal opportunities is specifically enshrined in the Constitutions of the six members. However, positive measures or measures to achieve parity democracy are provided in the constitutions of nine Member States. Four of them have both, namely Belgium, Finland, Greece and Germany. Both Hungary and Malta are among the new members. It is therefore time for the Republic of Slovenia, by means of the proposed constitutional law, to allow political parties to decide to take such measures as will provide women with equal opportunities, at least in the case of candidateing for elected positions, at all levels of decision-making, since the possibility of co-decision on public matters and thus equal responsibility for quality of life in it will have to be pursued for the favour of the electorate and electorate. That is how politics will take the first emergency step, and the electoral body will have to make a bigger one. And politicians will be successful if their public opinion is at least a little more favourable to them than it is now. The answer to the question why the United List of Social Democrats has so far persistently tried to reach the legal basis for ensuring equal decision-making opportunities for women and men is in hand. The increase in the number of women in influential cities is too slow. We do not believe that it can be achieved on a natural path, which requires positive action - and this is also a European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u106	Thank you. Sašo Peče has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u107	Your Honors are here! I hope you won't mind, but unlike the speaker, I don't intend to read or present the views of the group in writing. Today, we are talking about promoting equal opportunities, which should be rewritten in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the second paragraph of Article 44. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, we have the same opportunities both between sex, age and other characteristics, whether physical or any other, already written in the Constitution. Thus we have the same and universal electoral right in Slovenia. But the right to vote is active and passive, so to speak, to vote and to be loved. If members of individual political organisations are unable to find satisfactory solutions within their political parties in order to be in exposed places, we advise that you expose them to their political parties. The fact is that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of gender equality. And if the National Assembly will always raise this issue, then it is also reasonable to highlight the topic of the representation of young people in bodies, as proposed in the Constitutional Amendment, or on the other hand in the representation of older people. In short, there are a number of these segments, which could be said that there is no correct representation by structure. The issue of women's quotas and equal opportunities is always, unfortunately, right before the elections. This is because, according to the Slovenian National Party, it is always regrettable that political parties estimate that it is advisable to encourage such a debate just before the elections and end it after the elections. But, of course, this is the characteristic of every political organisation, and I can certainly say that it is the characteristic of most political organisations in our country. Once again, I would like to point out that all of these functions, which we are talking about today, will be in the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government, or even in the new one within the institutions of the European Union, could have been achieved long ago if the content of the proposed amendment were in the thinking of political parties and if this was not just a pre-election debate, whether it comes from ruling parties or non-governmental parties. Let me give you an example of some history that has taken place in our country. It is surprising that this year, which I will talk about, has always taken place exclusively before the elections and has always been preceded by someone in the national assembly or within any other political organisation who has spoken about the representation of this and that, but in this and this body, it is extremely bad, let us correct this in the form of law. Although the highest legal act in the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution, determines gender equality, and, of course, to build on the Constitution by law, which is, of course, much in the hierarchy of legal acts under the Constitution, is a matter of sensefulness. As in the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the issue of meaning is today's debate. Because the fact is that if the political parties' intention was to establish a candidate, and above all more than a candidate, so-called officials in specific areas, it would have been long ago in our country. In 2000, before the last national elections, in Slovenia, the largest political organisation or most powerful political organisation wisely identified the issue of women's quotas. Therefore, one of the authorities in Celje laid down the candidate rules, where they found that they needed such a percentage of women's quotas. All of this was accompanied by a large media pump, all the media reported on how meaningful it was, how wise it was, and how the Liberal Democracy had made a positive decision to take this kind of step forward. But it will not be 14 days before they find out in this largest, most important, most powerful client, that of course it will not be feasible because they simply do not have so many candidates and, of course, they cancel their decision 14 days ago. But this cancellation went away without that big media pump, how meaningful that makes sense. None of the media even spoke, look at them, they take something up 14 days ago, of course after 14 days they cancel it. And so that electoral year went by, nothing changed, but it was about representation or how a political party wanted to be represented by women in the legislature. But the end of the year was like the end of the year. Nothing except that they accepted this at some authority with a large pump, later without a media pump on another body. But if the year 2000 wasn't the only one and alone in this category, 2003 would come. On 28 March, the Assembly endorsed the alternate Members for the European Parliament. The European Union or the European Parliament has given us seven seats for seven representatives, representatives to the European Parliament, where Slovenians are supposed to learn something about how the developments within this institution are taking place. We have been given the initiative by the European Union institution to have different representations, both on the basis of men and women, both on the basis of older young people and on the basis of different political affiliations. Later, on a proposal from the Kviaz Colleges, the body of the President of the National Assembly, decided that these 7 cities would belong to a strange key which was, of course, voted in this National Assembly and that 3 seats would belong to the Liberal Democracy. So that political organization, which, two years ago, in 2000, adopted that conclusion, that women should be given a free expression, pushed to important places. But, of course, in 2000, women should take the lead in elections. But in 2003, we would just name them and be so-called European Observers, without going to the elections. And guess what happened. There was no woman among the three candidates who were a voluntary choice of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. What can we conclude from this? Is it really content and the desire of this most powerful customer to have women in positions of responsibility? I'm guessing not. The following events that I will describe prove that this is not the case. But there is nothing better in other political organisations, which have also had the opportunity to present female observers to the European Parliament. That is true, and I must admit that no one else in this House has had such power for three candidates, candidates to the European Parliament. The United List had only one choice, for example, and it gave a man. The same thing happened with the Slovenian People's Party, the same thing happened with SDS and the same with New Slovenia. In short, all seven candidates were male. And what's most interesting about all of this is that it wasn't surprising that those parties who took advantage of this opportunity and this vision of yours that it was important to put women in these responsible places that no political organization took advantage of in order to do so. But of course the story continued in the election year, that's 2004. On the proposal, unfortunately again, the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS came the so-called draft law on elections to the European Parliament. Let's not forget, it's the electoral year. Article 3 of the amendment of this law stated that it is necessary, because of this and that our society will develop better, because we will live better, because Europe will look at us better, to give us 40, I think it was 40%, women among candidates. Of course, the National Assembly adopted such a third article of the amended Law. In the Slovenian National Party, we considered that, of course, this is irrelevant, as long as this is not followed by a genuine wish, gentlemen and ladies. But no matter what, you supported the marriage. Last week, however, this National Assembly or I apologize, yesterday, and even yesterday, this National Assembly met again with the appointment of MEPs and Members to be sent by the Republic of Slovenia to that almost largest European Union institution, Parliament. The point was almost there. We got that same offer again, so to speak, to give seven so-called observers. The National Assembly, of course, accepted the first wish of Kviaz, at which we pointed out the following irregularities in the Slovenian National Party. We also drew attention to the College of the National Assembly or to the College of the National Assembly to this kind of irregularity, of course, that we would come at odds, not only with decisions in the framework of the Liberal Democracy, what they adopted in 2000 and what they later rejected in 2003, and which they rejected again in 2004. But that the rest of the National Assembly would come against that decision to supplement the European Parliament's electoral law. Since the big words of any of you were about how meaningful and important it is and how we all strive to have women in positions of responsibility, yesterday the National Assembly adopted a level lower than yesterday, in direct opposition to the 3rd Article of the European Parliament elections, which, by the way, is a level lower than we adopted yesterday, because yesterday we accepted as European observers, but we have not even met the condition of Article 3. Of the seven candidates, only one political organisation has chosen a European observer. Nowhere else. And when we say in the Slovenian National Party Group that this is contrary to your words, contrary to your "compromising" about how society will not develop if we do not place women in such situations, how otherwise society is weak, sick and all that, is the National Assembly and all members of the National Assembly, with the exception of Sonja Areh Lavrič, confirmed this candidate list, which is completely contrary to your conviction. I can go by my name. Mrs Silva Montenegro has confirmed a list that does not correspond to thought, words spoken for or behind the seat. Furthermore, Mrs Majnikov, Mrs Jerica Mrzel, Mrs Pavlinič Krebs Irma, who smiles so beautifully in her bench, Mrs Potrata, Mrs Stopar Stanislava and Mr Širca Majda. I just want to say this, ladies and gentlemen, before I stop this nice smile of yours, which only reflects one thing, that you don't do anything other than bluff when you talk about representation in important places, while your actions show something else. And of course, if we could get a little more credibility, all the women in Parliament would know that I am speaking for them right now. And that's why it makes no sense for you to smile. Because we might know that the priority against political belonging is to be aware of who you are. In this way, as you do in the National Assembly, when you speak extensively and widely about what would make sense for equality, how vital it is to enforce both sexes in public life, in leading life, in executive, legislative, judicial or European institutions, we should, in particular, follow our words. As long as you make such decisions and as long as you write in the highest legal act, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the text already in the preceding article will not change anything. In the National Party, we will, of course, support the initiative, whatever I call it, to change the Constitution. We're not going to argue with that. But it would make sense that, unlike you, or at least in the Slovenian National Party, we are also trying to understand what we wanted to write with this. It's not enough that you vote for something, and then you don't stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u108	France Tsukati has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, it's an interesting topic, a little more relaxed in terms of previous topics, maybe a little less serious about the constitution, but still. Perhaps there is a grain of truth in this proposal, or a few important things, and we would like to draw attention to them as well. Surely it would be wise to provide greater quotas for women in one way or another in politics. Such a policy will probably also look slightly different, at least so I hope, more humane, more human, somehow closer to individual people. But the question is, how do you do that? Surely we cannot tell and command voters, vote and surround women, not men, or anyone else who comes to the polls, command, surround men or women, and so forth. I'm sure you don't. But there's something we can do when we enter the system, so to speak, in the design of the candidate papers. Here something can be done and something can actually be diverted or interrupted by existing practice, where the plurality of these leaves has not been seen. You could say, okay, we'll be the leaves where the choice by the proportional system, that's to say, whoever's on top, will be the first to be elected and so on, we could form these leaves in terms of man-woman, male-woman or female-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-type. As soon as it is elected by another system, where the choice of individual candidates is surrounded by individual candidates, of course it is impossible - to influence the outcome of the elections. It is also certainly true that this is not the only area that actually allows an individual sex or group to influence the policy of a country. It is not just a direct policy area where decisions are made. We also have other areas, economics, economics, occupations. Here, too, it is extremely important if we want the gentle sex involved in the decision-making process in the country to do something in the direction of greater sexual pluralism in individual professions. Almost two years ago we adopted a very nice law on equal opportunities for women and men, and in this law we have already written in Article 1: "This law lays common ground for improving the situation of women and creating equal opportunities for women and men in political, economic, social, educational and other areas of social life" We wrote very nicely. Now all we're talking about is the election, the candidate lists. We have also said, in Article 5: "Indirect discrimination due to sex exists if seemingly neutral provisions, criteria or behaviour in the same or similar circumstances and conditions place persons of one sex in a less favourable position." We wrote beautifully. All we're talking about is the design of the candidate papers. True, the law here says well that the same standards may appear to be criminal. The same criteria appear, for example, to be determined by a party in its executive committee or by the voting council of a party; the first, second, third and so on. These appear to be the same criteria, they all have the same options, but in making a list like this it will definitely be at the top of five men, maybe a fifth woman, or maybe one woman, or five men, or something like that. That's the experience. This is a way of running that takes into account the principle of seemingly equal opportunities, but there is a kind of unfair outcome that we now want to prevent or establish a technology that does not allow it. Similarly, gentlemen, she's in college. Looks like the same options are guilty. That's why we have colleges where 80% of freshmen are women in their first year. That's why we have colleges like this, so we have a feminization of professions. And that's not good either. It's not good for society, because then the profession starts to change. We get some other moves and some other principles of action. And also here, gentlemen, it would be necessary to correct these principles of entry into the system. How does it matter when we talk about constitutional changes? However, it is important that we allow this option in the constitution. If we are to change the Constitution in this direction, that we must ensure that, when entering politics, we are able to obtain as much as possible a balanced result from politicians, this means that there is a plural, sexual plurality between politicians, Members and so on, we need to provide some mechanisms to ensure that we are able to obtain as much balanced representation as possible in individual professions. And if we are serious, if there is no proposal that we have before us, just pre-election pranks, women's vote-gathering, or I don't know what, then, gentlemen, we also need to take this other side of the medal seriously or deal with it and therefore we have proposed an amendment. Our amendment, which says that not only in the field of politics, but also in the area of integration into education for individual careers, needs to be ensured or the criteria under which it actually enters this system, is in college, of course our amendment will in some way be criteria or it will be determined whether a proposal that speaks only of political inclusion is a pre-election prank or is serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u110	Thank you. Yuri Malovra has the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u111	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! I would almost ask myself in this proposal why we discriminate against women, why it is not 50:50 exactly equal, why 40:60, why 10% in the harm of women. For in some areas women, as the forerunner has found before me, are represented in a great majority. However, I would say that women are often not prepared to expose themselves as much in politics as men, or that they are a little more shy and that they prefer to take care of home, family, social and other matters, except those of course present here. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we find that in the Republic of Slovenia women represent 51% of the total population. There are 46% of the employees, which makes us the world's top. However, the proportion of women in the highest, most visible positions within the state administration is very low. There are only three ministers in the government, for example, that is, 19% poor, 13% good in the National Assembly, and this is just a few alarming data describing the current situation in Slovenia. The proposal for a constitutional amendment, which concerns promoting equal opportunities for men and women to run for office, makes sense in the view of our parliamentary group, as it aims to contribute to improving the current state of representation of women in the authorities. Compared to the proportion of men, this is negligible to the extent that we can talk about sub-representativeity. The representation of women in public authorities and other decision-making positions is so small that we can almost talk about the absence of this part of the population from decision-making or participation in decision-making on matters of common interest. The unequal representation of the individual sex in higher positions is also present elsewhere in Europe. However, in many European countries, the basis for this situation has already been removed. In Slovenia, we are lagging behind the members of the European Union when it comes to its removal, which is why the present problems need to be addressed as one of the political priorities. The fact is that the current situation for modern representative democracy is just before the entry into the European Union, which we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that Slovenia is certainly, unacceptable and we cannot and must not accept. The balanced representation of the representatives of both sexes is fair, but this is not just about justice. It is also a matter of realizing that the cooperation of both sexes will result in different aspects, positive, constructive results. The fact that the inclusion of both sexes also leads to better quality debates is often highlighted, as the inclusion of different views leads to more politically wise decisions representing the interests and aspects of the larger part of the population. In the European political area, there are many incentives for equal representation between men and women throughout the world of Europe, European political parties and non-governmental organisations. Let me mention that the Amsterdam Treaty also commits members of the European Union to achieving gender equality. In our view, it is particularly important to point out that the adoption of measures for the differentiated treatment of both sexes does not in any way constitute discriminatory regulation or treatment, but rather to establish an environment of equal opportunity for both sexes through the measures envisaged; therefore, we are talking about legitimate differentiation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Under this law, as a group of Members, we have been co-signers of the amendments to Articles 15 and 16, which complement the articles so that no sex on the candidate list can be represented by less than 40% and that at least one candidate of each sex must be classified in the upper half of the list. Thus, this amendment of the law legitimizes women's quotas. Although our party's Members are currently only male representatives in this mandate, which is not applicable to previous mandates, both the Slovenian People's Party and the former SKD In our membership there are also women representatives who will be candidates for elections to the European Parliament and later to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, as the first party in Slovenia, we adopted an action plan to help our party contribute to a greater proportion of women in politics. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the incentive measures envisaged by the amendment of the Constitution in this area and we will support the proposed position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u112	Thank you. Peter Levich has the floor. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u113	This Article of the Constitution speaks of gender equality and is an effort to achieve a balanced representation of men and women in political and public life, thereby promoting equal opportunities for men and women to be represented by the elected authorities at national and local level. It includes the topic of equality, which unfortunately remained on paper in Slovenia in many cases, i.e. in writing, does not take into account equality in practice as well. We have also seen this recently, when we were punished by the European Union, because we did not have any women among the seven observers. Of course, we have adopted, in a greater desire to accommodate and comply with the urgent procedure, a law that legislates quotas for candidateing in the European elections. There are only 13% of women among members of the National Assembly, which ranks us among the countries of sub-Saharan Africa and we are light years away from Western European countries, especially Scandinavian countries, where these percentages reach even 30 or more. However, if the words gender equality are written several times, especially in the Constitution as a supreme legal act, the possibilities for equal treatment of these social groups are so much greater. It is undeniable that women in society are still in subjugation and in decision-making processes represented in the minority, the candidates for the elections are less than the candidates for the male sex, while they are still repeatedly pushed in the background or the ones they prefer to do themselves in the background, and as soon as they become the untiring organisational force of the campaign that helps, they strive for the best possible outcome, but remain behind the scenes. Unfortunately, we cannot condemn and say that the reasons for the last behavior in men's work are often in women who do not trust other women, who do not support other women, women who do not want to expose themselves and their desire to help themselves, while thus pushing themselves into the background and thus unselfishly allowing success for others. Such an image or performance is then generalized and becomes a nextereotype for individual women who want to be politically active. The public and members of the group quickly begin to perceive them as career women, women with high egos, ambitions and the like, which is not typical of a woman and immediately has a negative foretaste. In addition to the above mentioned woman, many times they stop at another obstacle if we can call it an obstacle, and this is the family. The latter means more to them than the job situation, so they prefer to give in to all the obstacles, games and manipulations they encounter in the political space, give in and devote themselves to the brighter part of life. Women often find themselves in a vicious circle, from which something soon emerges or they never hope to enter. Therefore, in the Youth Party, we believe that, for these reasons, a woman's part of society should be supported, promoted and balanced in the area of equal representation of both sexes. If we think about all these discussions and discussions that took place around the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution, we can say that much has been discussed about the proposal, but most often only in the women's circle, in particular at the initiative of the Office for Equal Opportunities and Women's Sections, so-called equal opportunities groups, which operate within individual political parties. These players include the group for the same women, which operates within our party, the parties of young Slovenia. If we analyze the composition of those present in the debates, we will come to the realization that many have taken place without the presence of men's representatives, but we are actually deciding in the end, as well as today on this amendment, because we are ultimately representing the majority and that, with this change, we want to achieve that reform of the adoption of the models developed, democratic, faster and more effective. If we think about the role of women throughout history and the countless roles that women had to play at the same time and perform today, we will determine their energy, will, professionalism, motherhood, but after all they are not equal to men, equally represented, they do not have the same conditions in many areas of social political life. And to this day, we have to ask ourselves, what is the cause of this, how to improve the latter, what are the solutions. Certainly the change of constitution is far from a solution to the problem, but it is the first step towards a solution, so it has the full support of the Youth Slovenia party. We also support the amendment, which allows equal integration in the education system and equal opportunities for professional life. At first glance, discrimination in the integration of children into the educational system does not appear to exist and every child, regardless of gender, can be educated for the profession he wants to pursue in life. In a lot of cases, it's true. In recent years, the professions traditionally applied to men, such as the military and the police, have also opened up to women. I believe that this has achieved a great deal, but discrimination is mainly reflected in employment. If we are not prepared to hire women in a job, appropriate education will not help, and this will make these professions or educational directions inaccessible to women, and discrimination is shown here. We therefore support this change in the Constitution, which will ensure equality in education as well. In order for this to happen, we will have to deal with our own actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Members. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In fact, we draw close to or close to a circle of thought, initiatives, initiatives that are not just a year old, but more than a decade old. Various groups of people, many civil society movements, many times, many years ago, feminist groups, political activists were actively involved in this round of thinking. However, we certainly do not face a proposal that was formed just before the elections, on the contrary. If he was formed just before the elections, he would have much less prospects for a happy ending than if his evolution lasted much longer. Of course, it is true that the Constitution allows every citizen and every citizen to have the right to vote and be elected and to participate in the management of public affairs. Many have wondered and may wonder why we are supplementing the Constitution with the possibility of introducing additional legal measures if both men and women have the same rights. Of course, the answer is repeated in statistics and reality, as has been said many times, even today, and what is written in a number of documents - conventions, recommendations. And let's add if the situation is what it is, if I add to the statistics mentioned today, in the municipal councils only 13% of the women, if there are poor 6% of the mayors, if there are fewer ministers in the government, if only 2% of the women in the supervisory boards of economic companies, etc., in short, if the situation is the same as it is, it needs to be corrected and not, I say, only to be remedied. This would require measures, including legal and constitutional measures, or any law that would encourage the election of one or the other in both elections would be inconsistent with the Constitution. The lesson was given here by France, which consequently changed the constitution after realizing that the change in laws alone was too small. With Slovenia, if change is also confirmed in Slovenia, of course, five European countries will have such corrections in the constitution. Many also believe that the problem within us is that when we do not want to, we do not know or want to take advantage of the options. And it is not possible, the fact is, it cannot be denied that too often we are entrenched by the cultural and traditional perception of a woman's role in society or even our occasional lack of confidence in the art of public affairs management. Nor can it be denied that many are uncomfortable in an environment dominated by a runaway male world. But such doubts are serious enough to carry out only by law. We all know that, but laws are important corrections that can also move the existing state of the spirit. You signed the proposal to amend the Constitution until some of you were forced to change your mind, including the national party of Slovenia itself. The Expert Commission has further developed and transformed the proposal into an even more binding one. The Constitutional Commission fully agreed that it should not express doubts and also supported the proposal to exclude the word "may" from the text and to transfer the sentence from Article 44 to Article 43 of the Constitution. The Charter of Fundamental Rights speaks of the fact that the principle of equality must not prevent the maintenance or introduction of special benefits for the benefit of a smaller sex. So this is a proposal that enforces political correctness, which promotes consistency and leads to better quality political dialogue, and this is a proposal that has always become a liberal option for Slovenia. However, it is difficult to agree on an additional proposal which was made in the proposal to amend Article 44 of the Constitution. We like the will which stems from the proposed amendment by Mr Tsukjati, in particular to extend measures to promote equal opportunities and women in the run for elections to state authorities and local authorities, to extend them to equal integration in the education system for individual professions. We also like the understanding of the Member of the Sugar Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. But the amendment has some formal or essential formal problems. The correction in education is included in an article on electoral rights, as stated in Article 43, which states that electoral rights are universal and equal and that every citizen who has reached the age of 18 has the right to vote and be loved. However, even if we would draw attention to the supplement, as we proposed, as an initiative of constitutional change and say that the law sets out specific measures or measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for elections to state authorities and local authorities, it would not be possible to avoid the fact that these measures are limited to electoral legislation and not to the right to education or to regulate it. In addition, the article discusses citizens and citizens who have reached the age of 18 years and decisions on education take place much earlier. Of course, the question is also whether such problems and such discrimination are so critical that they should be introduced into the Constitution. Indeed, the statistics we have seen in at least the last few years say that it is a very balanced achievement of the results of education, both at primary and other levels, since the percentage of those who complete primary school as a second education is very similar. In fact, not in the case of postgraduate, graduate, university, secondary and primary studies of a greater difference between one and another sex, even, fortunately and thank God, also doctors of science, masters, say, Doctor of Science, have recently been approaching those figures that were sometimes privileged to male sex. In 2000, we had 392 male doctors and 362 female doctors or magistrates. Of course, there is no doubt that the Liberal Democracy would not support the amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution, in short, it would also be followed by an expert committee, a constitutional expert who proposed the transfer of matter to another constitutional article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The debates between Members and Members are followed. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u117	The nearness of the elections must also have a bearing on the fact that it is on the agenda or that it is subject to constitutional changes. At the same time, we ask ourselves, in particular at the time of Dr. Cuckati's amendment, whether this should be extended to other professions, to all spheres of life, whether it makes sense and logical after some instrumentalisation everywhere. In principle, however, we then wonder whether it is really necessary and also reasonable, especially in the light of some positive discrimination, which assumes that women's sex is more difficult to pursue in certain professions, based on this weaker position or worse predispositions to impose positive discrimination. These can also be problematic starting points and thinking. That is why, at least in New Slovenia, we are based on equality between men and women in terms of rights and equality. But we are certainly not all the same, we are very different, and this difference should be confirmed, not cut off by wings. It is undeniable that this aspect of women's empowerment is born on the basis of alleged discrimination against women, so that women in certain abilities, skills, skills are more capable or more developed, then men elsewhere. Therefore, this distinction also arises in professions, especially if they are exposed or exercised in professions or are dominantly different abilities, a different type of ability. And so it would be pointless, of course, to impose some quotas or equality in mining occupations underground or something like that. This would, of course, be pointless, so it is more reasonable to talk about a principle and, of course, education for equality, education for equal treatment, education for respect and in this area has certainly not been done enough. Probably also in terms of encouraging, now that we are talking about a policy where the gender deficit is, that is, talking about encouraging women to decide on this profession. This certainly cannot be and cannot only be a constitutional change. The constitutional change itself will do nothing. I'm sure there's more to school than that. It's an interesting piece of information. That is, that it is the office for equal opportunities that consists of, or employs, only women. It would probably be a lot more convincing if you were some kind of man for a sample. And I'd be happy to have equality of access in that field. So that this office would also be much more convincing. It can also be seen with certainty that the dominance of individual genders in individual professions is moving through a period of history. Once men dominated health care, now it's completely changed, or in school, it's completely turned. And that gives rise to some other problems. It is also interesting when I looked at this historical experience that for the longest time, the liberals advocated that only men should have exclusive electoral rights. This has been in place since the beginning of the last century. These taboos then fell off, but it's interesting to draw certain sequences. The Council is changing and we have to influence ourselves, so I do not oppose this article myself. However, the question is, of course, whether we would extend this rule of equality to all professions, to all jobs, to education, to all spheres of life, but not to just and only officials, or to the procedures of running for elected authorities. Why in power, why not elsewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In this mandate of the National Assembly, we will be able to take the first step towards attracting both sexes to decision-making bodies and to the leadership of the country. It is true that we have already succeeded in this mandate, and this is for the European elections. But the procedure is also a change in the electoral law to the National Assembly, which also requires a more equal representation of both sexes during the run-up phase. How hard it will be to move on to action with words, we will soon know. But only quotas will not be enough. The so-called positive discrimination will need to be mentioned several times. This practically means that during this period, women, perhaps later also men, will be provided with additional rights or benefits to ease women’s decision to enter politics. As I have already said in the debate on the adoption of the decision to initiate amendments to the Constitution to Article 44, let me stress once again that there has been a public debate and also a perception of the presence of thinking that women's rights are generally decided or decided by men or institutions that are mostly composed of men's representatives. The reasons for this are different. Also historically defined. Now's our chance to change them. Like the other Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats, I will support the proposed position. Because we want to lay the groundwork for equal opportunities for men and women to participate in the process of running for the elected authorities of representative authorities at national and local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. Mrs. Arehova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, Government Representative! The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is never and will not oppose equality between women and men, which also applies to politics. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 14th Article explicitly prohibits discrimination, including in the field of sex, and speaks of equality before the law. By summarizing the short facts from the previous extraordinary meeting, the distinction was fundamentally unacceptable in 1941, finally in 1945. In the Slovenian National Party, this means to us that women have theoretically exactly the same possibilities. They also run for various functions in politics. And that, of course, also in Parliament. And that's where they're elected. It is questionable what to do if more than 50% of women do not choose them. Whether the proposed change will in some way limit the free decision-making of Slovenian citizens and citizens in the elections or encourage greater representation of women in political life. The proposed amendment, in some way despite the establishment of equality and democracy, recognises that there is no real equality. This is also what statistics tell us about the representation of women in certain professions, the level of their salaries and the like. With regard to representation or equal opportunities for men and women to run for office, it is of primary importance that the whole society allows and provides women and men with equal rights and opportunities for education and, later, for a free decision on career creation, whether political or not. These options are already provided by Slovenia in its constitution. I will also repeat the question and thought that I have already given. In our view, the answer to the question why women are represented in a minority in higher places and in political life must certainly be sought elsewhere. I am convinced that to a large extent, the general belief of the electoral body still influences this, that men unfortunately raise more confidence. However, if the proposed amendment had led to a certain shift in the representation of women in political life, as such I would certainly not have objected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Levich has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm a little annoyed because today I've listened mainly to those who aren't here, that we always come by trying to fix this thing before the elections, so that we can benefit from it. We also heard that the Liberal Democracy had, I don't know, hundreds of years ago only men in politics, which I don't understand either, but I don't care. Well, let me get back to that first one before the elections. I have a statistical picture ahead of me in which this problem has been lingering for many years in our Parliament. Thus, in September 1994, the first reading of the bill on political parties decided to examine the possibility of including a provision which would oblige political parties to ensure, on their candidate lists, that none of the sexes would be represented by less than 40%. Look, ten years ago, we were thinking about what we recently accepted. This proposal, however, was not adopted in the second and third readings and the Political Parties Act, adopted in 1994, provides only that the party must specify in its statute a way to ensure equal opportunities for determining candidates and candidates for elections. That's what every client has. In 1995, so before December - probably the proposal for a law by Mrs Mateja Kožuh was based on an answer to the question sent by Dr Lev Kreft from the United List addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a written question concerning the implementation of Article 19 of the Law on Political Parties on equal opportunities between the two sexes. In December of the same year, a group of Members and Members, mostly of the United List, signed by Mateya Kožuh, proposed an amendment to Article 1 of the Political Parties Act, after which the parties should run for the next election for at least one third of the women and increase the proportion of women for each subsequent term of office by at least 5% until they achieve equal representation between the two genders. Financial incentives were also envisaged to increase the proportion of women in Parliament, for a party that would increase the proportion of women in the parliamentary group by 10%. The MPs did not accept the proposal. In May 1996, Vika Potočnik, on behalf of the Commission on Women's Policy, submitted a proposal for a mandatory interpretation of Article 5 of the Political Parties Act, paragraph 19, stating that the party's statutes should explicitly lay down procedures and measures for determining candidates or candidates, which is why it is not sufficient to merely state the principle of equal opportunities. This proposal has not been adopted either. In July 1997, this was not an electoral year, so Dr. Cyril Ribičič proposed a decision which he later withdrew: "The National Assembly recommends to the Prime Minister that, with his proposals, the government will no longer be without ministers, without the number of ministers or ministers rising to 20". In February 2000, the Group of Members, with the first signed Member of the Slovenian People's Party, Darinko Mravljak, President of the Equal Opportunities Policy Commission, again proposed, at the initiative of the Office for Women's Policy, the adoption of a mandatory interpretation of Article 5 point 19 of the Political Parties Act. This was also rejected by the assembly. So, as we can see, it hasn't always been an election year. We also had initiatives outside the parliamentary debate to say so, so in 1999, the youth forum of the United List and the young liberal Democrats therefore proposed an amendment to Article 80 of the Constitution, which would ensure at least a third of the representation of women in the National Assembly. Well, when you see, this story is very long and stretches for 10 years. Well, since we are in Parliament, I would like to tell you how it is in parliament. I have data for about 130 countries, and this is what we get every time we go to this parliamentary union, so these meetings that are, and the data is very interesting. Just for a little while. In 2003, so in January - Members in these parliaments were elected either 2000 or 2001, so today this is true - the percentage of women in individual parts of the world was as follows: in the Arab countries there were about 6% of women in Parliament, in Asia, Equatorial Africa, Oceania, in America about 15%, in Europe without Scandinavian countries about 15%, including Scandinavian countries, this increased to 17%. But if we only take Scandinavian countries, that's about 40%, that's 39.9. So the disproportion is huge. But if we take this statistic that I have talking about 1999 to 2003, the percentage is slightly higher in favour of women this last year, so in 2003 one or two points higher. As is known, we have about 12% of the women in our Parliament. If we take all the countries that are members of the Interparliamentary Union - there are about 130 or something over - then we are in the 65th place by the percentage of women represented in Parliament. Well, we can't be satisfied. I think this thing should be settled. Of course, I object that this change in this constitution would happen, and we hope that it will. Why? What are the arguments for this? The arguments are quite practical, sometimes purely psychological, so to speak, because we all know that some of the values of a woman are more valued than men. Either we've forgotten them or, I don't know, we've become insensitive, like solidarity, responsible for different thoughts and so on. In women, this thing is somehow more present than in us men. In the end, women represent more than half of the population in Slovenia, as well as in the world, so there are some 105 and only 100 of us, but these are laws of nature. Well, and if there are so many of you, it's certainly right that your representation is in public life. I don't think it's just here when we talk and we've heard that today because of the elections, but we're talking about public life, so there are more of you. I will therefore vote in favour of such a proposal. There are also some opinions that, say women, it's hard to decide to make their political careers, progress and so on, but I don't think that's true. It's probably just our opinion. I think it should be changed for all of us. The fact that voters do not elect women is problematic because in the Slovenian proportional electoral system in those constituencies where the candidates of a particular party usually win, regardless of who they are, the parties usually run, place men and, of course, there is a smaller possibility. It was also about this amendment. I don't think this amendment has a basis, at the end of the school, and that's free. I always hold my head when we vote. No one's looking, I mean, for judges, when we elect them, then you'll see, say, if there were 100, then there would be 90 women. Feminization is going its way, and it's hard to change that. It's medicine. It's the right thing to do to women. So it's going to be hard to change that with a change in the constitution. And yet, as I said, I'm not going to make that change. There might be something else to say about whether this is positive or negative. I mean the negative side of this change, but I don't think there's any point in talking about it right now. I think a little bit about nativity, because we talk a lot about where it's at fault, why it's the kind of nativity that we have here, and probably here too, it takes into account this greater engagement of, say, women in public life, which is certainly positive, but it must also suffer from it somewhere. But she suffers from nativity, that's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jerica Mrzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members, dear people! Great how many good thoughts I've heard today, we're all in. Nevertheless, I would like to say some of my thoughts. Despite the constant struggle for human rights, we know few women in history who have had opportunities such as hereditary rulers, even fewer are scientists and artists who have been given an opportunity by the environment, such as Sappho, Queen Elizabeth, Maria Theresa, Madame Curie. Ivana Kobilica had to sign her first artwork with an alias, but she's not the only one. The women were burning on the bushes like Jeanne d'Arc; as much as they were burned in our house, we are still too silent. It also burned down the first to organise actions to enforce women's rights, March 8th is in her memory. Most of us who are here in Parliament and who have sat before us can tell you stories that have harmed not only them and their loved ones, but also all of us and our development; let me not list your names. I was reading a book written by my grandmother that helped women in childbirth. A shocking book of memories that explained to me how women had been born on rotten straw before World War II, and there was no hot water for them. A Romanesque woman without property gave her seed a better birth. The woman was less valuable than the cow in the barn. I'm not overreacting. You can read the book of memories. But my grandmother, who lost her husband in World War I and gave birth to my mother posthumously, successfully ruled the crisis between the two wars. My mother gave birth to me after my father's violent death at the end of World War II. With her four children after the war, she had the most modest means of managing us, educating us all, and helping us in our lives. But it is true that after the war we also had good politics and also outstanding women who designed it, but you do not like to hear their names and you are almost allergic to them. What do loving men want for their loving partners and especially for their loving daughters? That's what I'm asking you now. We need to remind ourselves of the fundamental relations in our society. In the White Paper, women and children are underrepresented. It's up to you, dear man, to give us equality. Your responsibility is how many children we have. I insist when we eliminate violence against women and children, when there will be a percentage equal to the number of trained masters, doctors, professors and so on, women in better paid jobs and in politics, we will believe you. That you're moral, that you're cultural, and that you're serious. After inviting you to an event in Parliament to discover the talented Josipina Turnorajska, I will see what a visit will be like and how much you are interested in this, dear fellow Members. Let each man begin within himself and within his own family, in his own place and in his own surroundings. Kocbek wrote in his famous song History as follows: "O history, blind unrest of mankind, constant confrontation of good and evil. Falling roars into the abyss. From morning to evening, a single human confusion, the cry of the winners and the cry of the victors. About history, training, and sweetness of oblivion. Flags in the wind..." and so on and so forth. And at the end: "For nothing parades and salves, salves for greetings, salves for warning, salves for punishment. In vain of discovery in megaphones and in vain of sacrificing a woman's lineage. Too many bans, too many orders. Everything goes through the sky and beyond the man on earth." Don't let our time pass. Let's create conditions for the human future. The same options are among the cornerstones of this future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Jaša Lukič Zląbet has the floor
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u127	First, I would break my colleague's illusions that it is different in Europe. It is also in Europe, women are discriminated against. Parental leave is also two months long, for example, so in Europe a woman is still quite ill-skinned. But that's one thing. The other thing is that, as far as the elections are concerned, it is clear and loud that the so-called election zipper did not work. It didn't work out because apparently even men weren't brave enough as women weren't brave enough. In fact, it is a disgrace to this entire Parliament, which has four members of Parliament, with no Member. But there's something else. Not only are women less paid for the same work than men in Slovenia, not only that when it comes to forgiving workers, women are always the first ones. Women and elderly workers. And besides, it's not enough to have sexual harassment on the job from day to day. We could read those who were interested in how a boss apparently sexually abused his subordinate coworkers, wrote in the newspapers, and nothing happened. We need to build safe houses to protect women from their insane partners. Because if we didn't protect them, more women would be injured and also dead. We can talk here about such or other laws. We live in a society where those who are weak are exposed to cruelty and have virtually no chance to live a normal life.And here are children and women in the first place and we do not say what happens to older people. So the situation is very bad and I don't think there's any reason for any optimism, let alone excessive optimism, with which you're already looking at some new horizon, where everything will be different. It won't be any different. That's exactly what it's gonna be like today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to convince my fellow Member that I am not exactly a man to celebrate having a lot of illusions about Europe. But I was talking about the political role of women in Europe, I was talking about electoral justice, and the European experience is that women in European countries have been given electoral rights before we got them. I haven't talked about some acquisitions for women who have been acquired by women in the previous system from good child care through a whole range of other things. Where Western Europe is at least far too much of the time, more women are involved in decision-making processes, this is representation in Parliament. It is also true that, given the proportion of women's representation, the percentage of full-time women in the active population cannot be compared to our own, and even with many others, European women cannot be compared to us. But we are talking about the amendment of Article 44 or 43 of the Constitution, which sets out the possibilities for candidateing, so I also have concerns about the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which affects another area, which is in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since so much has been said, but the minutes are limited and there will be a debate on the amendments, I have only so much to say that when reading the criticism of the classic Greek tragedy of Evripide, the idea of democracy going from one tragic myth, the tragedy of co-existence between men and women, and in general how to grow into a modern Europe today, and the modern view of this relationship between men and women. And also in this aspect, I can say that if we look at futurology and not least at the very famous futurologist Albin Tofler, who said that there would be no advanced state if he did not have women as an equal member in his constitution and in parliamentary democracy. They just can't prosper and work on it. And I think that today's debate has shown that we have actually been able to do this and that we have done this and that it is one of the steps that we will, of course, still have to do a great deal to promote all of these equal opportunities and also to find a difference between us, how we will place and encourage women to engage in political life and even life of decision-making and how we will actually work on raising, educating these same women and encouraging them, because we know that the current pace does not allow it. I am also in favour of paying more attention to this in other laws; otherwise, we have achieved a lot with one law on equal opportunities. A few more minutes to discuss the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The second paragraph of Article 44, which is supposed to be, states: "The law may lay down measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for elections to state authorities and local authorities." Even if this doctrine had not been recorded in Article 44 as the second paragraph, it would have been substantively applicable and would have been in force on the basis of Article 14 of the Constitution. A lot of words have been said, although we probably all know that there is no point in talking about it. I fear that this dictatorship, as in the second paragraph of Article 44 of the Constitution, will be written down and will not be in force. But I'd much rather not be written in order to have it in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts. Mr. Potch, won't you? Mrs. Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! In 2001, when the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure in this part saw the light of the Council, it signed it and, by its signature, guided it to the path of 75 Members and Members. If you are a minority in this National Assembly, then we are twelve representatives of the women's sex, if anything seemed to her honour at that time, it is certain that so many men of fellow Members have drawn this initiative and the proposal has been signed. Personally, I hope that these signatures on this paper, which at that time expressed the support of men Members, will also result in a push on the button to support this constitutional change. At this point, however, I would like to present to the traveller some very interesting thoughts from Mrs Heide Hautal, President of the Committee on Women's Rights in the European Parliament. Madam President has made it clear that no country can be democratic if half of its population, i.e. women, is excluded from politics. Unbalanced representation of women in decision-making is the real deficit of democracy. In most countries, it is noted that the social situation of women is not improving according to its assessment. He says: "Although we represent women half the world and the other half we have given birth, we are still many second-class citizens. Otherwise, in many countries of the world, women are harder to learn, harder to get a job, less paid for the same job, and more difficult to get into a policy where all of this is decided." It says that, given the significantly deteriorating social situation of women compared to men, it is understandable that the international women's institutions have set themselves a very specific task, namely, to achieve 50% representation of women in the highest legislative and executive branches of government in due course. At the European Conference on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in Bled, the Taist Lady in 1998 offered two concrete advice, which, in practice, has given Scandinavian women an admirable result. He says, for the first time, "The least women can do is publicly freeze the party membership and boycott the work in them, because it is generally known that men let women into politics only when their water runs into their throats when they need garages that work hard instead of them." Secondly, he says: "Women in Slovenia must also demand that each party run for all political functions, for Parliament, for mayors, for ambassadors and so on, half the candidates. Of course, it is necessary to count," says Mrs Hautala, "on a long-lasting, unforgivable and persistent struggle of women. Against whom?" Asked. "Against men the usurpation of political power." He says men are the main culprit for women's inequality. The classical feminist movement also marked the man as the main culprit of equality between women. Not for no reason, he says. "If I illustrate: the man took the whole bread and the women have been fighting for every bit separately. It's their half-bread fight, and it's definitely gonna be a long one. Or would it not be easier," he wonders, "especially socially fair to cut bread immediately into two equal halves. In short, he notes, "there is a loud demand for the establishment of such a political mechanism, which, in social practice, will strongly advocate equality, both women and men, in decision-making and in liability for those". The World Conference under the auspices of the United Nations International Year of Women in Mexico City in June 1975 declared that equality between men and women is the equality of their dignity and human value, as well as equality of rights, opportunities and responsibilities. In other words, to date, the social situation, both political, economic, social, military, ecologically, in the world bear the primary responsibility and guilt of those who have the supremacy of power in their hands, that is, men. She's very concerned, she says. [[?]] the Slovenian political scene, especially since the highest authorities in the state do not mind that Slovenia has earned an unenviable patriarchal state based on catastrophic data in international circles. What, then, should we do in the Slovenian political space in order to achieve the desired goal in the near future, is the equal representation of women in the national assembly and government? The answer is not simple, as greater movements in this area require the political will of both opposition and opposition parties in particular. And respectable male colleagues, a modest minority woman of course warns that in particular your vote for such changes of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Even when it comes to women candidates who don't come through the National Assembly. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u137	Allow me to contact you just enough to draw your attention to the booklet, which recently also summarized our surveys, Women in the Slovenian Parliament. This is a study that was done between 1996 and 2000, and it also includes some of our opinions or opinions. And I'm only going to read the piece that talks about how women are treated in politics. I recommend this decision because it is very extensive and, in fact, it directs the policy of future mandates or even generations somewhere. In short, the attitude towards women in politics is said by observers, who have also summed up the upper levels and observed the work in Parliament, researchers say: "In the opinion of Members, all attempts so far to legislate quotas at national or local level have failed for very specific reasons because the parties have not raised enough electives or have not had enough confirmed women, either because they wanted to make a violent change. Whether men want to maintain their positions, whether women have negotiated too little with men or men are referring to tradition in this regard, "the too little political connection of women, the inadequate sexual structure of parliament, the unfavorable general social situation and so on." In the opinion of the Members, however, there are more fundamental reasons, as they are forcible, wrong concept, partial solutions and the fact that there are no consistent parties' policies. This is a few reflections where it is likely that we need to think so much more actively when we finally define ourselves to support the amendment of Article 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u138	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted the list of all debates, debaters. Maybe the government wants a word on this? He doesn't want to. Then we could close the debate on this. And we are moving on to the debate on the amendment to the position that we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 6 April 2004. This is an amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party. So I'm putting this amendment to the debate and asking who wants the word. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I believe that the amendment is well-intentioned, especially in the part where it proposes that the definition of quotas or the promotion of equal opportunities become mandatory in the law, not just optional. Although this word "may" which is proposed for deletion in the amendment, in practice it can also be a reality. However, I am afraid that in the second part of this amendment has missed the content of the article, which has been amended. Probably because it is not possible to discuss the issue of integration into education for individual professional orientations under Article 43, which speaks of electoral rights. In addition, this second supplement can create, after the discussions that have been about it, a feeling that it may want different criteria of ability [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To evaluate in this way that gender criteria have priority in this regard. [[...]] It is not possible to ensure equal opportunities for inclusion in political work in terms of candidateing. So these are the reasons why I will not support this amendment. I hope that there will be no pretense and no excuse then for voting on the basic text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u140	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Nobody else? Then I conclude the debate. I'm asking, does anyone else have a desire to discuss this point? No one else. Yes, Mr. Mamic. There's only a few minutes left, so I'm asking. Mr. Mamić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Women used to talk, and it was my turn. A little joke. All that stuff you said, especially respectable women, that's all true, that's all true. All I'm saying is, I'm against it. It was for me, I could also say, I don't know, one almost literary performance, especially when I listened to Mrs Jerica, and I really like to listen to her, no matter what she says. So, I would be happier if there were 50:50, 50% of women, 50% of men in this House, they say, then it would also be democratically very satisfying. Even if we adopt it or do not adopt it, it will not actually bring anything, there will be no real change if we do not do something on the other hand; this has also been the case today. Let's say, specifically, if I'm talking about my client, for others I don't know what kind of policy you have, we have seven candidates for the European Union, three women, four men. In our committee, municipal, for example, in Ajdovska, where I am, we have 9 members of the committee, we have four women, and even if there were, there would be nothing wrong, we call them, we invite them, come, participate, etc. Let's say four years ago, when we were looking for an election, God, give me some women, apply for a nomination for an MP, she was gone. If there was one, I wouldn't be here, like now. So there's nothing wrong. Now, if we go back to the history of what happened back then, yes, because we know that a woman has not had the right for so many years, etc., that they are oppressed in one way or another, that in our society, especially if we go even further south where I am home, the patriarch has ruled, perhaps today's government. For example, my mother, who gave birth to six boys in a row, and when the little girl arrived, wondered why she came to this world, not to say, she was disappointed. And yet, I'm not patriarchal. What I'm saying is that we could do something, and there was also talk about everyone in their client encouraging those women who are ready, who are capable, one way or another, that a woman can be busy because of her job and she doesn't like it, because of her career, she doesn't want to risk it, etc., but she has all the options open, because nowhere does it say that women can't be more than 10 or 15 or 20%. It can also be at least 90 Members, the law allows, the constitution allows and amends the Constitution for something - I don't know how much this will contribute. I don't mind us being clear, but I think we're wasting too much time on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Can we get this over with? Yes, you can. The amendment and the position will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote at 21.25. So I interrupt this agenda item, and we continue at 5.55 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u143	All right, colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to the meeting. We're at 6. Agenda items - When discussing the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law - EPA 703-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amendment 129., 130., 131., 132. and 134. Articles of the Constitution were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate a procedure to amend the proposed articles of the Constitution and to postpone the discussion on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission to one of the following meetings. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, if he so wishes, to further explain the draft constitutional law. Please, who wants it? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u144	President, thank you for your word. Even a good day to all Members and Members! As I said, the government has prepared draft amendments to the judiciary. It is five articles in essence, but I would mention the most important aspects of these changes. That is to say, the so-called probationary mandate, which would apply to young judges, should be introduced for those judges who enter the judicial service and could then be elected in a permanent term after five years of this probationary term. Then the next amendment is to appoint judges on a proposal from the Judicial Council the President of the Republic. This is also in line with the practice in Europe. We also propose a different composition of the judiciary. It's supposed to be a 15-member justice council. By also being the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice. We believe that these two officials also have a decisive influence on the situation in the judiciary, and therefore it seems appropriate for the Senate to also be members of the post of office in this body if we want these two officials to take full responsibility for the work and for the situation in the judiciary. The government is simply proposing that these changes be adopted in the package, which is to say that all five of the articles that we are proposing should be adopted as a change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We will now go to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. My colleague, Dr. Bernik, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! I particularly welcome all the three Members of the Members present and the other Members. In New Slovenia, we have always been in favour of the fact that the Constitution does not change into a chorus and we have opposed all the changes, only those that were necessary for us to enter the European Union. This third branch of power is extremely important, has direct contact with people and people are acting very dissatisfied to this branch, of course. In addition, it seems that this branch of government is relatively closed and functioning, that the internal legal processes are actually the Spanish village of most of our people and even experts. However, this branch has a huge impact on the state of the country. It affects the rule of law, democracy and so on. In fact, these problems that arise and we know them, and that have been articulated in every way possible, are not going to be resolved quickly, and all these changes that are proposed today will be just one small patch that will solve these problems for a while. Later, however, they will appear in even worse form. Our judicial system was set up immediately after the beginning of the transition and the judges, then appointed for a permanent term, had to rely to some extent on their experience from the past non-democratic era. The judiciary, too, still has a number of problems, accumulated problems and issues following the current regulation. I'll just go through some quickly. Firstly, there are still large backlogs at all levels of the judiciary. Although they say that the situation is improving in some places. Old-age criminal cases are emerging. There's never been any explanation here, according to my information, for this and how supervisors respond to these problems. Judges have a permanent mandate and are so nearly untouchable. The proposal for amendments is intended to solve this problem by introducing [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] traineeships for five years and then, if the test is well terminated, a permanent term. [[...]] We all know that such a change will lead to some positive changes in the judiciary, but we do not know if it will improve the quality of the judiciary itself. However, there are also some negative effects that experts have also pointed out, but mainly they speak of the fact that the sentence of the proposal is inappropriate due to the word "may" and also due to the lack of legal guarantees for a permanent mandate. In the discussion, there is also a way of electing judges. Whether it should be the State Assembly who appoints judges, as now, or whether the President of the State should appoint them after they have been proposed by the Judicial Council or some intermediate system. These systems are different across countries, with different experiences, and we seem to have not really figured out what we want and what kind of system we should have. However, the Council of Europe has recently criticized our system to introduce opportunities for manipulation and politics. We're already talking about the judiciary. Many believe that this body is composed of judges, professors of law after the current regime, but has no external supervision. The system is closed. The reform proposal is intended to bring foreign people into this world, including the Minister of Justice. The new members of civil society, however, demand that they come to it, because they can represent citizens and then inform them directly. However, any solution will be found, it will be necessary for the judiciary to be opened to the public to the extent that it will still allow for a successful operation and the confidentiality of the judiciary. The closure of the judicial branch proved to be indignant at the statements made by a German legal expert who knew our system well and studied it for several years, and when he commented and made some examples and suggestions, resentment over these statements erupted. This, of course, points to the unhealthy atmosphere that governs this closed society. The judiciary is not a sacrosanct branch of power. Despite its delicate role in our society, it must also include a culture of human behavior and humanity. Here I should also mention that, although it is not necessary to consider the State Prosecutor's Office as part of this authority, it is a very important part of this authority and in our opinion it is not well-ordered, because now the State Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney-General are not responding to the National Assembly as it should be. And in fact, in the last year, we have not seen any of the prosecutors or the Attorney-General here before us, so that we can question her, because the Committee on Internal Policy has simply decided that this is not necessary. Of course, this removed her from the possibility of having a dialogue with her on things that have been hanging for years. So in New Slovenia, we have been opposed from the beginning to amending constitutional provisions, except as I have already said, which were necessary for the European Union. We are committed to the independence, non-politicality of the judiciary and, on the other hand, to an appropriate and sufficiently clearly defined supervisory function, which is not in fact formalised. This should be taken into account by the National Assembly in its programme and it should fully assess how to reform this branch of power in order to make it easier for them, for judges as well as for our citizens. This will, of course, be a big deal and these things need to be done. These proposed changes to constitutional provisions only seem like a patch, as I said before, and it seems that this is no way to regulate the entire judiciary, which has such a profound impact on our society, on all of us. After more than a decade of Slovenian transition from a non-democratic system to the present, still walking democracy in New Slovenia, we think that this third branch of power in our country, our judiciary needs full attention, deep analysis and solid solutions. We don't have that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This was the position of the New Slovenia Group. The DeSUS delegation position will be presented by Comrade Vojko Čeligoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u148	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear government officials, esteemed colleagues, colleagues! The expression of a critical attitude on the functioning of the courts and judges, in particular with regard to judicial backlogs, triggered a request for an extended debate on the urgency of constitutional changes in the judiciary. The debate is at the heart of the demand for more effective supervisory mechanisms in the judiciary. The essence of the constitutional change that seeks to introduce a five-year probationary period, as well as other proposals for constitutional changes in this package, is to strengthen the professional supervision of the work of judges of beginners, which should also lead to greater long-term expertise of the entire judiciary. In the DeSUS Group, we agreed from the outset on the proposed amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, whereby the judge should first be appointed for a period of five years and could be appointed as a permanent officer in the fifth year of his term of office. However, we would like to point out that the proposed amendment is satisfactory only if, at the same time, the appointment of judges for an existing or modified composition of the Council of Justice is changed. If that were not the case, there is a serious threat to the independence of the judiciary, which until now has been guaranteed the duration of the mandate of the judicial function with the possibility of internal control. We also have certain concerns about the duration of the trial period, as we believe that it may also be necessary to consider reducing it. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that constitutional change would certainly contribute to the competence, efficiency and accountability of the judiciary. On the other hand, the scales raise questions about the independence of the judiciary, which is essential for the functioning of the judiciary, and of the countries in general. We believe that the introduction of the probationary period of this principle would not reflect the urgency of any changes or of any other articles relating to the judiciary. Members of our parliamentary group do not agree with the proposal for a mandatory suspension of the judicial function due to a violation of the Constitution or a serious breach of the law, because we believe that this is too misplaced and can lead to abuses. We believe, however, that the judiciary should bring transparency closer to it, which could mean additional supervision, both over the election of individual judges and over the work of those judges. The judicial branch of power is not untouchable. But it represents a kind of moral authority, which it must also justify. If a proposal for constitutional amendments in the field of justice is to be adopted, it will also be necessary to regulate the constitutional matter accordingly. Many practical questions also arise. Let me give one example of how to act if a judge is tried during a trial period, and later he is no longer appointed as a judge. Should the current case be concluded in such a case, or should a new judge be assigned to the individual? With regard to the inadmissibility of any position of the parliamentary groups on the Constitutional Commission and the lack of support from the section, the question arises as to whether the proposal for constitutional amendments is sufficiently examined and appropriate. In the Group of Members, we agree that perhaps the change is useful and necessary and that lack of arguments makes it unacceptable. The judiciary has some very serious problems, but it does not need rapid reforms. We know that reform can cause a number of undesirable effects, such as the recent reform of the judiciary, when the judiciary has dealt more with itself than with judicial cases, which has undoubtedly increased judicial backlogs. This does not mean, however, that there is no change in any area of the judiciary in the event of an evidentiary deficit. We expect that this debate will also clarify any concerns and the proposed amendments will also be acceptable to our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Now he's got the word of a colleague, Miran Potch. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The government is proposing a rather large change in the judiciary. A permanent term of office could be granted to judges after five years of a successful judicial function. The judges would be appointed President of the Republic, not the National Assembly. The composition and competence of the Judicial Council would include the Justice Minister and the President of the Supreme Court, and the immunity of judges would be decided by the Judicial Council. In the UK Group, we believe that changes to the Constitution in the field of justice are worth considering, but also have led to very different assessments and different comments. The United List of Social Democrats supported them when they decided to initiate a constitutional change procedure. That is what most Members and Members have done. In doing so, we would like to emphasise that it may have come from too much and, above all, from the current situation. Reducing the reputation and trust in justice, mainly due to the debate on efficiency and the slow resolution of backlogs, due to assessments of the work of the judiciary, which was at the time due to the resignation of one member, and also perhaps under-criticism of the judiciary towards its own action and problems and so on. In doing so, she may have paid little attention to the warnings offered by the profession, not so much by justice or by the judiciary, but by the university and law professors. And we must admit that many of these warnings are worth serious consideration. Their main content points are that the assessment of judicial work is, according to the profession, possible after the current regulation, even earlier than after five years of successful performance of the judicial function, so that the probationary mandate would not necessarily constitute an essential new opportunity to assess quality and to elect only the trusts of the judges. It would only be new to give an assessment of the judge's work so far by the National Assembly, as experts have pointed out, according to political criteria. And it would be possible for judges to take this opportunity into account in their work, especially in the last year or two before re-evaluation, so that the current political majority in the National Assembly, rather than the independence and quality of their work, would adjust their decisions. This is clearly and unequivocally stated in these warnings and it is noted that this could mean a reduction in the independence of the judiciary, which is one of the foundations of the division of power and the rule of law. If we follow cases and assessments that are made in public, even though not too often, by politicians on which judgment is good and bad, when prosecutors perform their work in a quality way or not, it is a matter of full political and laziness, perhaps sometimes even for interference with the independence of the judiciary, then it is difficult to completely exclude the possibilities that law professors are alerting. Second, we are particularly reminded of the possibility of the wrong or inappropriate composition of the judiciary. They argue that the quality of their decisions and the reduction of the ceho influence or protection of each other against influence, not judges or people who do not work in the judiciary, could be resolved without constitutional changes by providing for the necessary qualified majority in the relevant law to take a decision; it is said that a simple majority would not be sufficient and that only judges would not be able to reproduce to say their kinds. In any event, they point out that, contrary to international standards, the proportion of non-judged members would be greater than the opposite, since this would, according to the assessment of the profession and the international criteria, be in direct harm to the independence of the judicial function. Therefore, taking into account the fundamental criterion that the Constitution should change in those parts where changes are urgently needed, because they can eliminate the weaknesses that we are witnessing to them, we can assess that it is possible for the profession to make progress on those essential points, which we all consider necessary even without the proposed constitutional changes. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that it shows the most serious and thorough reflection in these proposed amendments, and we expect that we may also hear reflection and emphasis in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u152	Your Honors are here! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the Slovenian judiciary is not effective. However, we are convinced that this assessment is also shared by the Slovenian public. They divide all those who are more or less related to decisions of the judiciary awaiting decisions of the judiciary and at which the speed of life is dictated by decisions of the judiciary. Therefore, I cannot accept the words and conclusions of those parliamentary groups which claim that the Slovenian judiciary does not need effective solutions. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the solutions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the draft constitutional law are wrong, are flawed and will lead to additional judicial backlogs. We are invited by both the domestic professional public and the domestic lay-off public, following the reduction of judicial backlogs, by the international institutions. In short, everyone who is familiar with the functioning of the Slovenian judiciary sees a large minus mainly in its effectiveness. In order to support my words, the so-called "Twinning project" was carried out in the Republic of Slovenia a long time ago, whose findings were the following. This was a comparative analysis of the functioning of the Slovenian judiciary with one of the comparable European regions. For the first time, they found that, as far as the jurisdiction of the Slovenian judiciary is concerned, approximately the same number of judges per approximately the same number of institutions, i.e. courts, covers twice as many people in this comparable European region as in our country. As regards, in particular, efficiency, it should be pointed out that in this comparable European region compared to Slovenia in the field of civil procedure in Slovenia, a judge conducts about 200 cases a year, while in this comparable European region, the judge conducts some 650 cases a year. In the area of unfair proceedings, this result or difference is even greater. The Slovenian judge conducts around 450 cases, while the judge in the comparable European region executes 3,200. As far as wages and other matters are concerned, they also show a large gap between the German or comparable European judiciary and Slovenia. Thus, in this analysis, it is found that the salaries of judges are good and that the salaries of Slovenian judges are relatively higher than in this comparable European region. To briefly touch on the following findings, which speak of the co-workers, i.e. somehow of the professional colleagues of the Slovenian judge, it is found that the judge is much more favourable in relation to the number of his subordinates in the judicial office and administration, especially in the District and District Courts of Slovenia than in Germany or comparable to the European region. As far as the last comparative component is concerned, the talk on technical equipment shows that the technical equipment of Slovenian courts is excellent and much better than the courts in comparable European regions. We must not forget, however, that the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary is much worse compared to this region. Let me just stress once again that, as far as the proceedings in unfair disputes are concerned, the effectiveness of one judge from a comparable European region in 3,200 cases in Slovenia is only 450, and as far as civil proceedings work is concerned, this is the ratio of 200 cases for a Slovenian judge and 650 cases for a judge coming from that region. Furthermore, in addition to these shocking findings of independent experts who did not come either by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the judicial branch of the Authority within the Republic of Slovenia, they note the following issues, namely the possibility that Slovenian courts should decide and act independently in matters of judicial administration, is largely too small in the District Courts. Secondly, the external organisation of the judiciary seems too harsh and too much, too red tape and too few quick solutions and flexible reactions to the accompanying situations. We also point out that the staff contribution in the courtroom and in the accompanying non-judicial service is too much and takes too much time. This same study, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, of course, also mentions some measures to improve the situation in our country in this area. Initially, they propose that judges, i.e. the institutions of the judiciary, decide in which area they will work. The fact is that in Slovenia there is an extremely large number of judges who carry out tasks for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within their judicial time or quote "the majority of the judges participate in commissions carrying out draft laws for the Ministry of Justice". And of course, if the judges point their judicial time elsewhere, especially within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Ministry of Justice, it is reasonable to ask at all about the division of power within our country - that is, the separation between the executive and judicial branches of power - and, secondly, we see that we are fairly soon to come to the reason or one of the reasons why the Slovenian judiciary is so ineffective. The study also reminds us of the following possible measures, and for the first time the integration of the procedures proposed to us, namely, the judges coming from that comparable European region that I mentioned at the outset and the second time the exemption of all foreign liabilities, which is, of course, contrary to the thinking of the Slovenian judges, given how much they still like to accept the duties set out in this title. In short, in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the Slovenian judiciary is ineffective; it is unjustifiablely ineffective, as we have shown both by the system of administration, both by the system of wages and by the system of accompanying activities of Slovenian judges. We therefore find it totally unacceptable that the government should submit a draft constitutional law to the parliamentary procedure, which will not increase the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary as a result of the possible adoption. Also, whenever we spoke on the Constitutional Commission as the parent commission dealing with the proposals of the Constitutional Law, there was no speech or inefficiency of the judiciary as number one, but above all the independence of the judiciary. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we should first ensure the efficiency of the judiciary. However, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has gone in a different way of solving, we do not know why, that is, the problems mentioned, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise. In the Slovenian National Party, we have also prepared our proposal to amend the Constitution, which, in our opinion, reflects the right measures, and if this National Assembly had adopted a proposal for constitutional changes, as we wanted to put into the procedure, of course, we would have resolved all the open issues, particularly the fundamental and most important ones, this is a matter of judicial failure. In our proposal to amend Article 129 of the Constitution, we wanted, quote: "The judges are loved for a term of eight years with the possibility of re-election. The law lays down age limits and other conditions for election." According to our assessment, of course, the original sin of the judiciary is within its permanent mandate. It is our belief that we would achieve efficiency in the field of justice, particularly by limiting their judicial mandate to a period of five years. After five years, after all, the Ministry of Justice could determine the effectiveness of individual judges and only then relaunch a new mandate. This would, of course, come from our assessment of a competitive or competitive demand, after a quality performance of their work and in no way happen what is happening today, that individual judges per year increase their judicial backlogs, and they have no responsibility for this, because in these cases, all of them, of course, refer to the constitutional provision of the division of power. And whenever, in this national assembly or elsewhere, someone hopes to draw attention to inefficiency in the field of justice, both government representatives and representatives of the judiciary always burn and say: do not interfere with the work of the judiciary. Why, then, do we even debate whether it is not a government or a parliament that does not allow a debate on the judiciary and is strictly on those trenches of division of power in this area? However, to touch upon a proposal, draft or draft constitutional law, as put into the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is totally unacceptable to the Group of Members. And once again, if this National Assembly, if Slovenian policy would like to take a step forward in the field of efficiency of the judiciary, then we should adopt the constitutional changes that we have offered in the procedure in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group - that is, by limiting the judicial mandate. So far, the text or draft text of Article 129, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "The judge is first appointed for a period of five years and after five years is called a permanent judicial function", is, of course, a bad solution. It points to some part of quality thinking and nothing more than a fraction, since the fact is that in the second - after a five-year period - it is again that permanent, so-called permanent judicial mandate, which destroys any effectiveness of the Slovenian judiciary. In Article 130, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes: "The President of the Republic shall appoint Judges on a proposal from the Council of Justice. When the Constitutional Commission asked why this change, why the transfer of the right of appointment from the National Assembly to the President of the Republic, was, of course, found and expressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to reduce the politicisation of the judiciary. But at each meeting of the National Assembly, we meet regularly with staff matters and among them the appointment of judges. And as a rule, I don't think there's ever a debate in 99%. However, if there is a debate on the appointment of judges, it is generally only at the request of the Slovenian National Party to say that it will not support this mandate because it further substantiates the permanent judicial mandate. Therefore, we cannot accept the arguments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that if it appoints judges, then of course there will be no politicisation. Of course, according to our assessment, the composition of the judiciary, as represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not acceptable. It gives power exclusively to one branch of power and thus, of course, intervene into another branch - and again, at the primary, original sin of the Slovenian judiciary, this is its inefficiency. Well, I would like to touch myself very quickly because my colleague Barovic also asked me to leave him with a few minutes, 132 of the proposed amendments, which in his second paragraph reads: A judge who violates the Constitution in the exercise of his judicial function is in serious violation of the laws or the abuse of a judicial function commits a premeditated crime, determined by a judicial decision - will be dismissed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Justice. It is totally incomprehensible that in the constitution or act accompanying or drafting the constitutional law, we write, "if the judge is in serious breach of the law". Wouldn't it be normal for us to write "if a judge breaks the law"? If each individual is responsible for breaking the law, you have now written to the judge on a proposal from the government that he is also absolutely more than an ordinary citizen in this area and that he is responsible before the law only if he is in serious breach - not if he is normally violated. Well, of course, according to our assessment, these constitutional dictions are completely meaningless. They will cause further confusion and, more importantly, we are moving away from those essential proposals that could make the Slovenian judiciary more effective. Once again, we will not support any amendments to the judiciary in the National Party. We hope, however, that if not earlier, at least in the new mandate, there will be enough Members to support the position or initiative of the National Party following the limitation of the term of office for eight years and thus finally try to bring the judiciary closer to the concept of efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u153	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. Now he's got the word of a colleague of Tuck. He will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, then we have some views of the representatives of the groups of Members and then a discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On the Committee for Petitions of the National Assembly, it is often interesting. This commission is actually working in some media shadow, and there's little talk about it, but last year we've been dealing with 218 cases. Of course, there have been more of them, waiting for consideration, and it is interesting to do statistics on what problems citizens face, what actually disturbs our electorate and electorate in this country. I must say that the first look at this number of petitions says that more than half of all petitions, all the problems these people face, are at the expense of the judiciary. More than half of those concerned by the judiciary refer to the length of the proceedings. Then there are about 30 different categories, problems facing our citizens - the judiciary. That, gentlemen, is a problem the National Assembly must not keep its eyes closed! And on page 5-6, this report says the following, the report on the work of the Commission on petitions of the National Assembly last year, and I quote: "Injurers generally fail to see that the competent authorities do not move until after they have received media coverage, and in such cases, the time-limit for the crime service is of course not only on the hands of the perpetrators, but also excuses the errors of law enforcement authorities, which, of course, find that they have not collected the relevant evidence. In such cases, the courts shall make a professional legal decision, of course, in favour of the perpetrator." This is the conclusion of the Commission's report on petitions for last year. Let me also state what one of the experienced, truly experienced lawyers at this session, when the report was adopted, said, quote: "Look, I have cases that last 10, 12 years and the court has not yet issued a decision, and the evidence was 10, 11 discussions in these 12 years, each year after one debate. And the tetraplegic, i.e. the lame man after a car accident, is waiting for the court's mercy, for the mercy of the county court in Ljubljana, specifically. See, those are the problems! Courts avoid their fundamental duties, that's trial. Courts don't judge, but they're always misdirecting, misinterpreting, misinterpreting. They're stalling unjustifiably. The permanent term of office is an accident for our justices - such an experienced lawyer. Well, you'll agree that these claims are not made from vines. In particular, if we also take into account the official data of the court statistics for 2003. In this data it is obvious that the number of pending cases or the number of outstanding cases increased by almost 5% in the District Courts last year, in administrative cases by almost 6%, in the Supreme Court the number of pending cases increased - over 6% of cases per year! In addition to the ever-increasing judicial backlogs, we are plagued by increasingly frequent, politically colored processes. And the growing inefficiencies of the judiciary in the long-discovered large areas of state property, in the midst of various Zbilski groves, SIB banks, Orion and in the face of numerous war crimes against humanity, which never grow old, our judiciary has been able to judge and condemn any "great fish" in fourteen years. Our judiciary is not particularly pleased with those to whom the judiciary is intended, they are citizens. Too late a right is not a right. The unexecuted judgment shall be in the interest of legal certainty. In order to establish legal certainty, however, it is primarily the responsibility of the Government or the National Assembly. If the current policy fails to fulfil these tasks, in democratic societies, citizens effectively punish it in elections. The National Assembly, gentlemen - and this is a key problem - these amendments, or proposals for a constitutional amendment. The National Assembly must have the opportunity to carry out its task, the possibility of having a positive impact on the judiciary. Policy must certainly not interfere with a judicial decision or blackmail political processes from the judiciary, but must ensure effective judicial protection. That's something else. Therefore, we agree with the opinion of the section on the Constitutional Commission, which it wrote in its report in January this year: "The appointment of a judge is also a public act which cannot be independent of other branches of government, especially the legislative act to which the judge is subordinated, as regards formal resources, in particular the Constitution and laws." Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party rejects the Government's proposal that judges should not be appointed by the National Assembly, but by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Judicial Council. The current composition of the judiciary, in which the majority of the members are appointed judges themselves, has also proved to be poor. The Council of Justice shall propose the appointment of judges and shall decide on the progress to the higher court. It is only on the proposal of the Council of Justice that the progress towards the Supreme Court of Justice is decided by the National Assembly. However, if an institution has scissors and linen, its uncontrolled human resources policy can quickly come along as it already has. Therefore, the section of the Constitutional Commission has already criticised the government proposal in January this year, and I quote: "In particular, the composition of the 15-member Council of Justice, in which judges would have a majority, is controversial, namely 8 members, 7 elected judges and the President of the Supreme Court. If this solution were established and the President of the Republic was bound at the request of the Judicial Council, it would mean that the judicial branch of power itself is being established and restored. This solution is particularly contrary to the principle of democracy - Article 1 of the Constitution, the principle of human sovereignty Article 3 of the Constitution and, in particular, the principle of the division of power together with the system of brakes and balances." Thus, the Section of the Constitutional Commission in January this year. Even the Council of Europe's pre-accession advisor, German Judge Norman Doukoff, has repeatedly pointed out the need to control the judiciary, and I quote: "Even if we agree that a professional group is self-renewable, there must be external control, otherwise matters are being disputed. This supervision should, in the event that we are talking about the Slovenian judiciary, be carried out and carried out consistently by the Minister of Justice. The worst part is that the Council of Justice decides on the progress of judges and also lays down standards for their work." So the Council of Europe advisor, who is supposed to be preparing our judiciary to join the European Union. However, the Government's proposal to amend the constitutional articles on the judiciary does not correct the relationship in the composition of the judiciary. The appointment of judges shall, however, be entirely left to the Council of Justice and to the President of the State. In such a system, our judiciary would become even more closed to itself and even more inaccessible to control by other branches of government, the barriers and balance of the judiciary could only be dreamt of. However, the National Assembly would no longer have any leverage to at least a little, at least at critical times, influence judicial protection and also to provide the rule of law. We therefore supported the proposal of the LDS, DeSUS and the United Kingdom in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which substantially corrects the government proposal and practically replaces it with a text that is also acceptable to us. But look, at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, there was an interesting conversion. Representatives of the section spoke differently than they did three months ago and the government Members voted differently than they did three months ago. Government Members have even rejected their own proposal. On the business committee, however, someone voted for the hair drawn interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in order to keep the government proposal alive. We do not know the reason, but we know that the government proposal for us is not acceptable. And that is why we are proposing an amendment to replace the government proposal with which we want to put things in the place they belong. In our proposal, a judge may be appointed to a permanent judicial function after a trial age of five years. The Judges shall be appointed by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice has 11 members in our proposal, as has been so far, but 5 have been elected by the National Assembly, 4 have been elected by judges, and the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice are members of the Judicial Council by position and cannot be elected President of the Judicial Council. Therefore, according to this key, the Council of Justice would have five judges, five other lawyers, professors, lawyers and so on, and the Minister of Justice. We are confident that our proposal, which replaces the government proposal, is acceptable and will also be supported. The government proposal is not acceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party because it transforms the judiciary into a country in the country. It does not allow any pressure on efficiency and correctness to be addressed, leaving it to the influence of informal backstage policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Comrade Rokavec. He will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we supported the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution concerning the composition governing the question of the judiciary. For we believe that we cannot be satisfied with the position of the judiciary in our country. In the Group of Members, we assess that a change to the Constitution in this part is necessary, but we have a number of comments on the proposal for amendments to this set. The proposal relating to the amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution, which provides for a five-year trial period, makes sense in our opinion - and also an appropriate solution. The latter is also known abroad and has proved to be positively accepted. We believe that the absence of such an arrangement is one of the essential shortcomings of the existing judiciary regime. In certain areas where judges were understaffed, the age limit prescribed for the selection of judges was even reduced. Without a doubt, such a solution was not in place and could by no means benefit from such an alarming state in the judiciary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were briefed on the public presentation of opinions concerning the field of justice. We have observed that the amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, i.e. the introduction of a five-year trial period, is also supported by prominent experts who are first-hand familiar with the functioning of the judiciary and the difficulties we face. In fact, the judiciary must not be a closed branch of power without any control. The National Assembly is responsible and justified to respond to the criticisms of the judiciary and to adopt certain changes proposed by the government to ensure greater efficiency of the judiciary. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal in some parts does not provide for better solutions than existing ones. We have been in favour of a restrictive approach to the amended Constitution in the parliamentary group from the very beginning. One of our strong concerns was and is still any change that would result in a decrease in the powers of the National Assembly. We are of the opinion that the National Assembly, as a representative body representing the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, must not consent to the reduction or even the withdrawal of existing powers. In the light of the foregoing, in the SLS Group, we do not support the withdrawal by the Constitution of certain powers of the National Assembly for the election and discharge of judges, as provided for in Article 130. It has been reported that the powers of the National Assembly regarding the election of judges lead to politicisation. In the Group of Members, we do not believe that this is the case, as the practice of the current period has shown that the National Assembly has in fact rejected the proposed Council of Justice in only two cases. Indeed, politicisation is not own and specific only to the National Assembly; in our view, politicisation was competent to any competent authority in that country. We also consider that the transfer of powers to decide on the immunity of a judge, Art. 134, from the National Assembly to the Council of Justice is unfounded and not supported. With regard to the change in the composition of the Judicial Council, which is referred to in Article 131, in the Group of Members, it is important that the composition of the Council of Justice should take account of the principle of the division of power into the legislative, judicial and executive branch. The system of brakes and balances must therefore be taken into account as the fundamental property of the division of power, which is at the heart of the democratic system. Discussions at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, and in particular in the final decision on positions, have shown that the proposal is incomplete and does not have the necessary support. There was no need for professional and political consensus to adopt the position. However, the situation in the judiciary is not good. Responsibility is at the National Assembly. This can be done if, of course, we adopt certain positions, particularly in three fundamental segments: the introduction of a five-year trial period, the introduction of a system of brakes and balances in the composition of the judiciary and, of course, the area of termination and withdrawal of the judicial function. In the Group of Members, we assess that we must therefore take full responsibility in the National Assembly and, in accordance with our competences, do everything possible to improve the current situation in the Court of Justice. This can only be done if we adopt today's position on the proposal for a constitutional law, as proposed by the SDS Group of Members, or in the content of the position proposal, if such will is done by the Constitutional Commission of 18.11.2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Now I don't see my grandson's colleague in the hall. So I ask whether he wishes to present the position of someone from the Member's LDS, which is not the case with his colleague Lavrinz. Comrade Wolf, please. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 35th extraordinary meeting in November 2003, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate a procedure to amend the provisions of the Constitution relating to the judiciary. We believe that the National Assembly has in some way expressed its agreement that certain changes to the Constitution in the field of justice are necessary because of the situation in the judiciary and that it would be bad if these changes were not made. In this way, the National Assembly also confirmed the Government's efforts to achieve a more effective judiciary. The Government’s prepared analysis shows that there is also a low level of judicial accountability among the guilty reasons for the backlog. The good and more effective work of judges and courts can and must be done primarily by the judiciary itself. This cannot be ensured only by changes to the Constitution, but certain instruments can be introduced to help do so. Amendments to the Constitution should leave the judiciary to independence, of course limited to constitutional frameworks within the meaning of the principle of the division of power. It would not be wise, however, to abolish institutions that represent the provision of a democratic and legal state, which undoubtedly includes a permanent judicial mandate. Despite the principle of support, the National Assembly listened to the opinion or warnings of the Constitutional Section and instructed the Constitutional Commission to prepare appropriate material for further discussion and decision. The Constitutional Section has asked the National Assembly, in my opinion, a completely legitimate fundamental question: Is the current constitution such that it prevents the normal establishment of the judiciary and the normal functioning of this judicial activity? The issue stems from the fact that constitutional changes are necessary only then, and only to the extent that they are necessary and inevitable because open issues cannot be resolved either by laws implementing the Constitution or by interpretation and that there are almost no such issues in the judiciary. In doing so, the profession acknowledged that such an attitude must not give rise to the impression that the current regime of the judiciary is ideal. In doing so, it also pointed to the danger of the self-sufficiency of the judiciary or of the judicial branch in general. We also agree with this position in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In the LDS, we believe that the judiciary is an independent branch of power, and far from being self-sufficient, and that the legislator, the National Assembly, the rights and the duty to respond to the situation in the judiciary, to the criticism of the judiciary and to adopt certain amendments if constitutionals are also required. We are aware that, while constitutional changes in themselves will not allow immediate solutions to problems in the judiciary, they can provide the necessary basis for this. On the basis of the opinions of the Constitutional Section, the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia has adopted a position that this time the Constitution changes only in those cases which are necessary and cannot be resolved by law, and in this regard they have also proposed that the text of Amendments 130 and 134 of the Constitution be deleted. In the parliamentary group, we continue to support the introduction of a trial period for judges they know in Europe and will affect the effectiveness of the judiciary. The substance of the proposal is to strengthen the professional supervision of the work of the judges of beginners, which will provide a certificate of the relevant competence and competence for the performance of the judicial function, with a five-year postponement of the decision to elect for a permanent term. The Group also supports the amendment of Article 131 of the Constitution in order to increase the importance and legitimacy of the Council of Justice. Following the section's opinion on the text of the European Charter on the Rule of Law of Judges, we have decided to propose that the composition of the Council of Justice should be amended to include 12 members, with 6 members elected by the President of the Republic by the National Assembly, namely from university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers, and 6 members elected from among themselves by permanent judges. The President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice may not, on this proposal, be a member of the Judicial Council, as follows from the point of view of the profession. We are aware that the majority proposal, which we have tabled together with the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the DeSUS, deviates from the Government's proposal that the President of the Republic be appointed on a proposal from the Council of Justice and that, in the event of regulation, once the trial period of the judge has ended, the Council of State is elected for a permanent term, there is a risk that the question of the election of the judge may be politicised. The proposal to elect judges for a permanent term of office is the fruit of a political compromise to provide the necessary quorum to amend the existing Article 129 of the Constitution, without which, of course, it cannot lead to the introduction of a trial period for a judge. In this regard, we also point out that, after the current regulation, the State Assembly, which decides on the election of judges, is not bound by the proposal of the Council of Justice or its justification, so fear may be overemphasized. In the Group of Members, as presented, we will support the amendment of the Constitution in this sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u159	Thank you very much. These were therefore made by representatives of the groups of Members. We are now going to the debate of Members and Members of Parliament. We'll start with my colleague Maja Zupan. She's got a word for her, colleague Majda Potter. I believe some colleagues and colleagues are about to give up. I think the Vice-President of the National Assembly has announced that we will vote as scheduled at 21.15. So, even if the debate ends earlier, we will vote at the scheduled time. Now we can start, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! With regard to the substantively rounded set of cases in the field of the judiciary, where amendments to the five articles of the Constitution are proposed, I do not think they solve the whole and improve as important an area as that covered by the judiciary. Despite efforts to ensure that the judiciary is as independent as possible and to prevent the impact of policy in the election of judges, especially when the judiciary does not act as it would like to, but questions relating to either a permanent judicial mandate or, for example, a change in the election of judges by appointing them President of the Republic on a proposal from the Judicial Council, or the composition of the Judicial Council, all these questions are appropriate and necessary, but I wonder whether they are sufficient. What about oversight, proper oversight, which is urgently needed? I believe that partial changes are not sufficient and that they would lead to further unnecessary debates, resolve the effectiveness of the judiciary would be small or small, in particular in ensuring that the trial is held within a reasonable time. A comprehensive study and a complex solution would be needed, so I will not support the proposed amendments to the Constitution in the field of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Comrade Zupanov. Comrade Barovich, would you like a word? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u162	Thank you. The five Articles, 129, 130, 131, 132 and 134 of the Constitution are to be amended. Let me just clear my path and my explanation. Our journey to the European Union is aimed at destroying or reducing the role of the Council of Ministers, among other things legislatively and clearly, and loudly, we all know that. Today we are talking about that the President of the Republic will take over the powers vested in the National Assembly in regulating the judiciary. I'd like to know the answer to why. We have heard in the explanation of the distinguished colleague of the government because this is the case in Europe. That's about it! We didn't hear any other criteria. We're changing five articles. A trial term in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party that I will not talk about my opinion, because I am a Slovenian national party - we would agree and agree with it; a permanent mandate - never is. And don't mind me saying honestly, it's what maybe someone thinks in their head won't say why we don't have a permanent term. The composition of the Supreme Court or the composition that would extend to 15 members was a good move, a good consideration of the ruling coalition, but it was said that the immunity of judges would be decided by the Council of Justice. That's great! The Judicial Council will consist of six members, following a proposal we have, appointed by the National Assembly, and of seven members of the Judges. What am I supposed to say about all this? Crows don't turn their eyes off. It is true that this national assembly, together with the government, is geared towards the people's will to go to the European Union, we agree, but all that is fashion-coloured if this year's fashionable blue dress does not mean that this national assembly, I hope, will, by the end of its term, imitate Europe and wear blue clothes with a white shirt and a blue tie. Even if, even if, as far as pluralism is concerned, the Slovenian National Party would say: if we were "for", I personally will not. I will not support this proposal. I won't! And even in the Slovenian National Party, we will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I don't know if I'd call my colleagues who aren't in the hall, but I'm just gonna stop by those who are here. And here's my buddy Potts first. You want a word? No, no, no. My friend Marshich. Not at all. My colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u164	Dear Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome! When we faced constitutional changes three years ago with many proposals, first of all the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, then the individual groups of Members, of course, I think that we were all aware that we should go to the constitution where this is absolutely necessary. The principle of legal certainty that each country pursues, I think, is extremely important in changing the Constitution at all. I am particularly sorry that we have not reached a consensus at work that has already caused problems in this country, that is, in the formation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in the more flexible way that we would give it to a mandate-holder who would be more responsible for the composition of the government. There, I think that, at least personally, I am sorry that we have not accepted these government proposals. However, in the field of amendments to the articles of the Constitution which speak of the judiciary, I think that at some point we have been extremely concerned by the fact that all three branches of the judiciary, with regard to the question of judicial backlogs, have led us to do everything necessary in the Constitution, however, to enable the judiciary of such a mechanism, all with the ultimate goal - I think that we all had the same ultimate goal ahead of us, that is an effective trial, a trial within a reasonable period of time. And at least I hope that not too seriously were the words that spoke about the need to intervene in the executive and legislative branches of power in that, to me, sacred and most important principle, this is the independence of the judiciary in the work which, of course, concerns the trial on behalf of the people. There the only fundamental principle of independence protected such a judiciary that we must all want. When we received the previous position of the expert commission, it was undeniably clear that the proposed amendments were not necessary, were not substantively justified and, most importantly, there was no assessment that such changes would help to remedy the judicial backlogs. We all have to admit that. The analysis in this direction, so that the five-year probationary period of the judge would lead to no judicial backlogs, I think that we have taken this chapter in Parliament, too, when we have seriously dealt with the judicial backlogs in terms of the competences we have, of course, not the greater when we are aware of the reasons for the backlog. At least my knowledge of that moment has been that the backlogs stem mainly from the reorganisation in 1994/1995 and that the judiciary has not been able to emerge from the fact that the current fallout and the control of the current belongs to what the judiciary is successfully dealing with. I think there are quite a few receipts in the legislation, which, with a good management approach in a few years, will also allow these backlogs from past years to be eliminated. What, then, is still worth talking about? The assessment was even that five years of experimental work is now better regulated. Therefore, that the judge has been elected for a permanent term of office for two years; because of his failure to comply with the standards laid down, he can, of course, be subjected to disciplinary proceedings due to negligence and therefore no longer a judge for the future. Thus, this five-year trial work would actually allow someone who, in the first year, would be completely incompetent to paraphrase, in fact, in five years would be temporarily completely untouchable. The current solution also allows for sanctions after a shorter work failure. Here, the expert commission says very precisely what should guide us in this consideration. And this fear, which has already been said here, that in the last year or two years, when the final judge is appointed by a temporary judge, the National Assembly may indicate that someone would be subject to political influence in the trial. This danger is definitely in place. There are quite a few words, and I think that the most important question, which is also a matter of concern to the expert commission, is the composition of the judiciary. On the one hand, the question whether, because of the composition of the judiciary as we have it, it is only a matter of staff renewal, because it is necessary to say that in recent years, the National Assembly has indeed more than indeed decided to elect judges, appoint judges, elect judges on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Justice - there is no automatic impact. Is the composition of the judicial council only making the judiciary renewed? Does this suggest that the composition of the judicial council should be changed? Here, the expert commission, at least as far as my assessments are concerned, is less convincing and shows that this reflection in this direction would, however, provide for at least a majority of the judges in this Council of Justice, but also the influence of other branches of government, but in the sense of non-regulatory, show us, of course, another solution, that there is no need for constitutional change; that is sufficient if the national assembly, by amending the relevant legislation, merely determines a different qualified majority for decision-making and this process of so-called self-renewment of the judiciary will be resolved in such a way. I think that the Commission of Experts has helped us a lot to study this issue by pointing out a number of important ways to change the relevant legislation in the field of justice, where I see that we can achieve exactly the same objectives as by interfering with the constitution that is now before us. I think we owe it to ourselves to think this through. If we achieve the same consequences by amending the relevant legislation, I think that, in this case, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in general, given the extremely different views that have been heard here today, cannot be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u165	Two other panellists, first colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič and then colleague Zamernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would add to what my colleagues have already said: it is not nice for government representatives here to laugh and mock the proposals of the groups. Because they probably wouldn't laugh if they knew what the backlogs are in the judiciary when citizens and citizens come to the offices of the Members. And it is my opinion that I absolutely oppose such changes to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Comrade Viceroy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not intend to advertise at this point, but I was encouraged by a specific example of a letter from disappointed parents who no longer know who to turn to, because they have lost all confidence in the rule of law. Unfortunately this is just one of those cases, don't count them in my files, especially since I started dealing with Friday, which is also - I hope not to prejudge matters - but it also reflects the incompetence of our system, from the prosecution to the judiciary. For the trial in this case yet, thank God, I can't say. Like I said, I'd like to read this to you. Not to convince someone of anything, but to think about the things that are happening in this country. That's what you say. When my wife and I follow your performances about journalist Mir Petk, we are also grieving and humiliated with our cruel story. At the beginning of 2002, on March 19th, the world collapsed, and life turned into grief when our son was found dead at the entrance to the grammatical cave in Ljubljana. A few days later, the police discovered the criminal and the perpetrator of the murder - I'm not gonna read the names. He cheated on their son for over three million dollars under the pretext of importing two cars from Germany for him and for me as his father. He could not carry out this plan because he paid for this money for his car A4 avant and bought a gun, hired and paid the said one - from Serbia, which in a terrible way ended the young life of our only son. With the help of this corrupter, this plan was completely successful, for no one knew what was going on. Their son was 25 years old, and they sent him to Celovec, where he worked hard in integrity and honesty, which he had already learned in his family. When the C.I. caught the perpetrator, they found 4,000 euros in his pocket and they didn't take it away. Some money was found in the house investigation by Ljubljana criminals, and they also left it behind. As for the A4 audio and other things, I asked the Grand Police to suspend the mutate, but they didn't. I don't understand the laws that are aimed at protecting fraudsters and criminals. The perpetrator confessed to the investigating judge as much as possible. He also signed each of the nine pages of the minutes himself. The indictment was written and contains 10 pages. She is represented by the Public Prosecutor - the name is also given. Discussions began in 2002 at the Celje Court and were exhausted by all witnesses by December of the same year. However, when the trial was to be held on 3 December and the verdict handed down to the perpetrator, the President of the Senate - again named - suddenly infected and all was stopped. The following year, the hearings began from the beginning. When the tenth debate took place, we were confident that justice would be served this time. But it happened again that the two jurors got sick, one after the other, and it all ended again. The defendant’s defense left the whole case, kept him at dead points with many complaints and matters to release. Thus, on 8.10.2003 the court in Celje decided to release the perpetrator to freedom and wait for the alleged murderer - this and this - who has the status of the main witness. This witness, however, fled to Serbia, where there is no hope of getting it, as there is no agreement between the countries on the extradition of persons prosecuted. I am increasingly left with open questions about why - because I do not understand much of this. Among other things, why does this escaped witness in Serbia have the status of the main witness if he is a murderer if he is our son's killer? Why does the court not decide that there are two different crimes here, as stated by Attorney General Liljana Dovžan? All our hope is now in the grave, and all our money is in the hands of criminals. Therefore, the lonely one turns to you for advice. Is there anywhere to get an honest lawyer or someone else who could take the case and put it before the European Court because we lost our last hope in justice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u169	Comrade Zampernik with all due respect for your performance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u170	I'm done with this sad case, which unfortunately isn't lonely. And this National Assembly is responsible for not having that kind of thing happen. And like my colleague Arehova said, a government-type laugh at it. When I began my previous term, it is said that almost eight years ago, when I was yet euphoric and believed in the rule of law, once I turned to me with such a cruel case, I wrote politely, I think to the President of the Court at the time, of course he sent me back into a very strong teaching that we have a division of power into the legislative, judicial and executive powers and that I, as a representative of the legislative branch of power, have nothing to do with their business. Even though judgment was issued on their part. And all I asked was when they were going to execute the verdict.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u171	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u172	And? Please, Mr. President, do you want to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u173	I'm not interrupting, I said. With all due respect to the performance, I am also reminding others of the subject of the debate - a constitutional change at this moment. I understand you're illustrating your position. I'm just suggesting we stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u174	Yeah, now we can talk about constitutional changes and with this power that we have here, we can put the matter on the table so that the Council of Justice will be named as proposed. Now all of a sudden, he wants to make a difference. Why? Because there will be someone in this country who can have everything in his hands or how. Yes, if this is not related to this, these specific problems of the people they have. Yeah, then I don't know what it is! Now, maybe the government's representatives will laugh again, and they'll say, "Leave out those who are so naive that you think we can handle things like this in the country." But in thought, colleagues and colleagues in deciding on these constitutional changes. Make sure you're guided by cases like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u175	A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr President, my fellow Ambassador, this is a problem, of course. And the claims you make about constitutional changes when you read a concrete case and thus justify the need for constitutional changes is a problem. That is why, when I have discussed earlier and as the expert commission has said, you have probably read it, the same effects can be said, and I believe them, because this is their work of life, the same effects are achieved by amending existing legislation. There is no need to interfere with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It's just what led me to think about whether to support or not. Mr. Ambassador, we all know that changing the Constitution is of course more than our feeling that the judiciary is not as effective as you, me and all of us. But whether this constitutional change will achieve what you have just said - that is to say, greater efficiency of the judiciary and so on, if you can argue what you have just said, then you should attach and agree. I, in all these papers made available to us by the expert commission, not only that, but also that many articles of these constitutional experts on this subject and the options they are giving us under the existing legislation, I am, of course, convinced that this step does not need to be done so that we can achieve the same effect by amending the legislation. And the procedure, as you have seen handling this necessary legislation, is already, and if we take our heads down there and find the solutions that they offer us here, I think we will achieve the same effect. However, I am convinced that with these changes, including the composition or method of decision-making of the judiciary, then monitoring the professional work of the judges who are starting to work and so on; if we change everything, I am still convinced that the direct impact on the judicial backlogs that have been accumulated for other reasons will not have this. An analysis in the direction that would convince us that these changes, either in the constitution or in the law, will lead us to a trial within a reasonable period of time that we all pursue, do not have that answer! Nobody gave this answer, or constitutionally legal experts, of course, indisputably say - not only did they, a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, say that they fully support the highest representatives in the judiciary of the constitutional change authority, which was a public presentation of the opinion on this topic. I looked at all the debates that were there and the mag. Mitja Deisinger said the first thing he said - the former President of the Supreme Court. In connection with the judicial backlog, he considered that the proposed amendments to the Constitution could not be eliminated and that the judiciary would have the same effect by adopting the proposed amendments or without them in the future. This is one of the assessments of a man who has spent his whole life in justice. So I think that our political assessments of the necessary changes must be based on the professional arguments that we get from people who are really and only dealing with these things and I do not hope to accept merely political assessments of feelings, but what might change in the field of justice if constitutional changes were to occur. I think it's really worth thinking about doing that here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u177	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'll take advantage of those seconds I still have, I hope it's useful. Look, we all express some will of the members of the National Assembly to achieve something also in the field of the judiciary, while at the same time we are bribing our own foundations. For we bear all our responsibilities in one area and in another. And if these powers of the National Assembly are transferred to the Council of Ministers in the European Union, to the President of the State, specifically with regard to our conversation, who, however, does this National Assembly serve? I think we are still those who have chosen us, and we must have our will and our pride and our desire to help everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u179	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Well, there is certainly a case that has been read, one of many, who is supposed to have awakened a little bit more into us, that in fact something needs to be done in this court and that the National Assembly is also responsible for the judiciary. All honour goes to the idea of independent branches of power, but this national council, this national assembly, ladies and gentlemen, is writing laws, writing a constitution and responsible to its constituents and its citizens for what this country will be like. First of all, this national council! And that's all he wanted to say was the case you heard. You can know thousands of them yourself and realize that we are responsible for this situation. And we have to have mechanisms to fix what's going on. Nothing else, that's all you need to understand. And that we are enacting laws and changing constitutions! I ask myself, what was the purpose of the government in proposing to amend these articles? Perhaps the government did not aim to improve something in this area for the citizens? Did she not have that goal? Surely the change in the Constitution will not shorten time or judicial backlogs, certainly not on its own, of course not. And even the next day, the constitution should be changed that way, the next day nothing will change in court, no one thinks so. That's not what the government meant when it proposed change. However, this National Assembly could set up mechanisms - and this is the purpose of these changes - mechanisms that could also control the judiciary could affect efficiency, greater work, greater justice. Far from saying that judges don't do anything. They are excellent judges, I know them, they are torn away by very effective, very quality, and I have no comment on their work. It's the only wish we had more than one judge! But the kind of others are just laying, folding, folding, and doing nothing. And they do the wrongs and things happen the way they were read here. Who's to decide who's to control, who's to fix these things? The judiciary doesn't. We've got evidence, we've got experience, we've got the judiciary, we've got the structure that doesn't do it. Pika! Or he won't do it - I don't know. Or he won't do it! So it is also necessary to cut into the composition of the judiciary! We are responsible for this, and if our amendment proposing this is to balance the composition so that the language on the scale in the judiciary is, however, a minister who is politically more responsible for the rule of law than an individual judge - he cares, because we know, that is how it is done. If he doesn't have that inner compass in him to work honestly for the good of the people. And this composition needs to be corrected by a constitutional change so that there will be a greater impact on the appointment of judges, a greater impact on progress - because this is crucial in judicial policy - and on the choice or option of recalling a judge who does not work as required by judicial ethics. Once again, these are things for which a person would like to be aware here in the National Assembly of the responsibilities - nothing else - to be aware of the responsibilities and also to accept changes to the Constitution or to act in the adoption of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u181	Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u182	Thank you very much. All right, Mr. Sugar, I agree. On page 4 of the opinion of the expert committee, page 6. The expert commission says that the current constitutional regime is better than the proposed regime and then develops further. In the new constitutional regime or in the new regulation - this refers to a government proposal - he says, "the judges would have a majority, but they would have lost forever, recommended by the European Charter because they would be the President of the Supreme Court" and so on. On both sides, a very good debate! And this danger that you are alerting and in which we have all been extremely attentive on page 6 to the world. "The danger that the judiciary can be self-sufficient is to a limited extent also presented in the applicable regulation. Self-sufficientness may occur when the Council of Justice definitively decides to move forward to a higher court of law This danger can be avoided by appropriate amendment of the law" - for example, to decide by an appropriately qualified majority of the members of the Council of Justice. I am not saying, Mr Cuckoo, that this is not a problem, it is a problem, but solutions are being offered that are a solution to this problem, and I say, if it is possible to achieve that goal with a minor intervention, I see no reasonable reason not to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u183	I'm going to finish the debate and go to the amendment. Let me tell you what I'm going to do, and then we'll see how and what. [[...]] I would like to go to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. It proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly as a position on the draft constitutional law. Now, if you think you would like to discuss this in the context of the previous topic, without paying particular attention to this amendment, I will give the floor to three minutes for the replica, if not, and I will give you the floor to explain this amendment. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u184	I would only like so much - of course it is one of the options also to change the weight of the vote or the required majority for adoption in the judiciary, to take a decision in the judiciary. However, such cases, and I have also read all the opinions that have been available to me, I do not know in European practice how to control or prevent the self-renewal of the judiciary, everywhere - and it is also recommended on the European side that independent experts have a majority of the votes. And that this is not the cause or the weight of the voice itself, but the composition of the judicial council is the one that can lead to independent decisions or decisions that will not be conditioned as they are now. In recent affairs, it has been clear to see how the judiciary decides. That's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u185	A colleague of Irma Pavlinic Crab.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u186	Thank you very much. There is probably a stumbling block and a way of misunderstanding between us, Mr Cuckoo. The European Charter recommends that "a decision-making body which is independent of both the executive and the legislative authorities must be involved in the decision-making process and whose at least half of the members are the judges elected by the judges of each of them after the electoral procedures by which the broadest possible representation of the judiciary is ensured". So this is the text of the European Charter, which is why the Commission of Experts, including a few separate opinions - are going in the direction of thinking, of course, but how to ensure this objective that you spoke about before, and one of the solutions offered is this qualified decision-making method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u187	Can we close the debate and conclude that you want the word? [[...]] I can give you my word if you want, please, and then the Secretary of State. [[...]] Then, somehow, I would suggest that we conclude the debate and announce the vote at 9.25 a.m. We have now looked here, on one paper is written at 21.15, on the other 21.25, because it is a decision by an absolute majority, but it is necessary to take a more distant date, 21.25 we will go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u188	Thank you, President. I'm a doctor by profession, if I shoot past this jurisdiction, probably - don't mind. But I agree with Mr. Sugar about what's going on. But I'm drawing a parallel to the doctor. So we are independent in our work, the judge is in his work - let's leave the Senate, which is - but even the procedure is run by one person who is independent in this procedure, like a doctor. When the patient comes to the infirmary, then he orders these tests to treat it and so on. The problem is: how do you control these autonomys to keep the work running? Will it be like a doctor? We said, well, three an hour - with interns; I don't know - five with surgeons and so on. But I don't see why the National Council would assign it to a doctor, and I'm going to tell you how much time he's going to operate and how much time he's going to spend for an operation, because then he'd actually hold it, I don't know, doctors for what's been admitted in here. That's what I see in the judge's office. How to control - his independence in his work. That's right! But how, how, how. Well, we have a doctor's room, and we have some organs that, if they're critical, can fix it. And I don't see that within the judiciary this thing could not have worked more effectively, it would have a more effective effect on the judges in fact, that this work, if there is such a backlog and if there are enough of them to move here and there, this thing has settled. I don't see how - why the guilt would be in the National Assembly. That's it. I don't see what kind of regulations you could've arranged for me if you were on your own. He can handle a matter for six months. I've known the matter since 1964, now I've got to write an opinion - 1994, I'm sorry, but it's still dragging. Why? Because it's complicated. I think legal matters and these things might be more complicated than doctors, because this comes to this, this, that, that, I'm pointing, over there, with doctors it's more -- especially with surgeons -- easy. That's right! But when you get a file like that, you see how much "douche" in there, in a rumor, I'm asking you for nonsense, so no one would think it's bullshit, but there's such a thing. And today we praise some lawyers in Slovenia - why, because they hunt for these "little things" on small things, although it is clear to him that he who is accused has done the thing and the whole of Slovenia is talking, and what he does not see, and what is defending him. But this is so and this procedure is different, like with a doctor and it's difficult to actually control and increase in some way, somehow accelerate this efficiency of the judiciary. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u189	The Secretary of State will then conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u190	President, thank you for your word. I'd like to apologize for my smile first. I am sorry that there are no representatives of the Slovenian National Party, but it has been dedicated to that proposal which abolishes the permanent mandate. I must say that a permanent mandate is a democratic value of civilisation and that is the basis for the independence of the judiciary. And I am deeply convinced that these proposals are not taken seriously because the end of the permanent mandate will certainly not solve the problems of judicial backlogs. And that's why my smile is because I've watched it with the eyes of an expert. We are going to Europe on 1 May, to the European Union, and I must tell you that there is a permanent mandate standard. I think it is right to maintain this standard if we simply want to be a civilized democratic state. Why has the government proposed constitutional changes? Because at a certain point, there was an opportunity, and this possibility of opening the constitution. We know that the Constitution doesn't open every day and every chance. At some point, the government responded to a situation in a court of law that was not the best. And through this we tried to find some solutions that might help to make the judiciary better - not only efficient. We are only talking about this too much to make the judiciary effective. The important goal is also to make justice fair. Because this efficiency must not be borne in mind that the judgments would not be fair, at the expense of expertise and so on. That would cause more damage. Thus, every time we speak of efficiency, we must also have justice, honesty, because that is the only way that man accepts judgment. With regard to relations between the branches of government, I must say that the executive branch of the Authority has done the maximum possible within its powers. It provides premises, provides financial resources, provides appropriate legislative proposals, which are then adopted by the National Assembly and by the National Assembly, as well as by the legislative branch of government, contribute to regulating the situation in the judiciary. However, the judicial branch itself must do its part. This is said to be aware of their responsibilities, that judges are taking a serious and professional approach to solving cases without, for example, writings being lost in some closets and so on. And I think that this must be the main objective and maybe you should reconsider whether a meaningful constitution at this point would be changing. It is true that it is not necessary, that experts have found, and I do not think any great harm will be done if we leave it alone at this point and we are looking for better and more appropriate solutions at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u191	Dr. Merlo. Does anyone else want a word then? No, no, no. Dr. Merlo [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u192	Mr President, I will be very brief. There's not two without three, and the doctors are here, and there's gonna be a third. I don't think we're going to be teaching legal expertise, how and what to do, but my colleague Gasparini stayed there as to how to treat a patient when there is a need for urgent assistance. And I'm going to put it this way: I'm sure a patient like that will be taken over by someone who's experienced. And no one responsible to say, a senior specialist doctor will leave a serious matter to a rookie who is also a doctor and can also work if he has a diploma and passed a solo exam. In law, we know that it just happened that they occupy cities in lower court teams, mostly younger people. These people who would have older ones for their needs — age brings many times or in most cases at least some wisdom along with them. Unfortunately, it happens that in the legal profession the flower and what is true in the law went up somewhere, where it only gets returned products or to the assessment of products to say so, from the base. Then he said, "You know, when we say in medicine, when something goes wrong, "Yes, but where have you been, but who has failed you?" And this happens to young lawyers to get an earring from the top, and those who are at the top forget that they were themselves young at the beginning. And according to the rule, these difficult cases, when you see these young people getting them -- I feel for them, they're good to go, they're still a lot more in these lower structures of the judiciary for not a lot of money, with a lot of responsibility. And such difficult cases, perhaps the Lord will agree with me, allow me, the more difficult cases in this country have been obtained by the rule of the younger judges, where we should say, "We will give this to those who are competent, who have a routine." Just like some more difficult operation a rookie can't do. That's what happens to us, and that's why I think it's a lot of times, even though I'm not going to judge anyone here. I think that's why they're so drawn to this procedure. There are procedural errors and, of course, they are watching from above as young ones, for example, make mistakes, and "ponk" brings the matter back to him. And then it drags on forever. But this, I don't think we're going to solve these problems, I think you're aware of that in court. But there's really not enough time, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u193	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u194	Thank you. I am pleased to compare Mr Gasparini's comparisons with the doctors. Only if we find today that a Slovenian doctor does three times fewer checks per hour than a European doctor or three times less surgery than a European doctor would we say something is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u195	Let's go back to the judges, I suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u196	Well, that something's wrong, there's something really wrong. And that waiting periods are three times larger than, say, Germany. They're, like, three times bigger, but don't be proud of it, because doctors would do less than three times an hour. The European report makes it clear that our judiciary is indeed - efficiency is three times smaller, three times smaller. Yeah, if I just look at it, then I say something's wrong and we have to do something. Now, how - of course we can change laws and regulations, but I don't know what. That's all it is to avoid again a problem that we could at least put here purposefully to solve. Also on the integration of women into politics - we can adopt the law, we can resolve with the rules, we can resolve with the agreements, but we have gone to change the constitution. Why? In view of the fact that all indirect acts can be justified by a constitutional provision. And as far as the council of justice is concerned. Mrs. Krebs, that's exactly what we suggested. Five plus one, five, five plus one we proposed! Five judges, five experts outside the judiciary and the Minister of Justice. However, the Minister of Justice is, somehow, responsible for the supervision of the judiciary, according to the European garrison. And let me read once again the opinion of the Council of Europe's pre-accession advisor, he says: "Even if we agree to have a self-renewaling professional group, there must be external control, otherwise things go wrong." That's right. This monitoring should be carried out by the Minister of Justice in the event that we are talking about the Slovenian judiciary and carried out consistently. I think that he is right, the worst thing is that the Council of Justice decides on the progress of judges and also lays down standards for their work. Gentlemen, if this can be handled differently, save it. You just haven't done it yet. You didn't do it! That is why we are proposing, when we are talking about amending the Constitution, one such appropriate amendment that would allow this to happen once in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u197	Even Comrade Jerovšek, then we will conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The situation in court is one of the major problems of Slovenian society and the Slovenian state. This, I think, was also highlighted by one public tribunal organised by the Committee on Internal Policy just in the fall when I think that the opinion of Mr Norman Doukoff, Minister of Justice, was also given to the public. It was very controversial there, but then only certain things have been done, certain starting points, and since this situation is such that something has to be changed, it is also expected or the need for some changes also within the framework of constitutional changes when the constitution opens. I am surprised today that, as part of this debate, I have learned that this will is to change, say, a permanent mandate to two parts in the first, five-year, somehow temporary, and then to a permanent term. He even says he's here at the government's biggest client. This Mr Doukoff, as the main problem of the Slovenian judiciary, stated that there was no change in the mentality of Slovenian judges. I find that the mentality towards the judiciary has not changed here either, that there is no longer the will to change anything. To cement relations in the judiciary, I politically understand this, is for the benefit of those who are now in power. This is a fact, and this has also led to the will to make this change, for which you once impressed us and also collected signatures and so on. What led you to change your mind? This situation in the judiciary seems to suit you politically. Elita is not interested in positive changes in the judiciary. And here it is stated that, in proportion to the population of Slovenia in Slovenia, 50% are more judges than in Germany. This is said to be a situation here: whether the Slovenians are so much more suing or we have such impossible state authority that it produces so many disputes, administrative disputes and I don't know what, that's probably true. Thirdly, the mentality of the judges is likely to be such that they are not actually able to resolve a number of legal disputes in these circumstances, but at the same time we probably also have a rather complicated procedural law. Mr State Secretary hesitates, I believe that he has the prescriptions to change this, but I personally think that this proposal, which was given to split the mandate into two parts, would not violate the constitutional norm on a permanent judicial mandate and, at the same time, the judges in that previous period, find themselves or obtain a working statement, which, according to these reports, is a problem in Slovenian courts, and that they would actually start to improve the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. As it seems now, this will not be possible or political will to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u199	It caused some replicas. I'm going to count as replicas. I'm going to limit myself to three minutes. Please, colleague Irma.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Jerovšek, a few hours of debate on this subject is already behind us, so you have probably heard the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I am here to discuss this as Ambassador Irma Pavlinič Krebs. That's how you misjudged him. The Group of Members has not changed any position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u201	My friend Kremjar and then my colleague Potsch, and then I'm really going to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u202	I must say that in general I am always very unhappy when we are very casually talking about some of the professions, we mix all things, from constitutional provisions to, I will say, maternity leave for young judges, and in all areas equally. However, we need to separate what is in the constitution from what is in the constitution, what we are talking about today, what we were talking about at many sessions of the Constitutional Commission, from what is then in practice problems, from what is there since 1990 and beyond - we know how things have changed in the judiciary, why these things have occurred, that there is a crisis of profession, perhaps even some values, and so on. That we are still coming into a system closer to Europe, where there are some Donetsks of democracy and customs, but with these permanent mandates and so on, and that it is not - for God's sake - always looking for something from behind, as we have now heard when someone was discussing. Always looking for someone to tailor the constitution and the laws and everything to do something -- but, I don't know, maybe someone sees it that way and then it's the problem of the one who sees it. I don't see at every step, every meter, every office, every act of some conspiracy, some people who want something. But there are not two million of us in this country, so to speak, criminals, who just want to do something to someone -- or I'll say something less if we subtract our colleagues from the opposition, because obviously they're not in it. I don't want to be argumentative, and if my colleague Jerovšek is going to argue with me, I'm going to stand up and walk away, because it's a waste of our time and yours, so I just want to say that we're mixing all things. It's a permanent mandate. The permanent mandate is precisely because of the independence of the judiciary, which we are talking about "for God's sake" all the time that we want it to be. This is a guardian, a permanent mandate is established in the world so that the guardian, that the judge is not dependent on politics, that it is not up to you and me, and that he does not judge as he thinks it should be because of you or me, but that he judges as a judge: by constitution and law. Just like a constitutional court for doing what it does. All the stories, I apologize, but we are seriously always confusing, we would put almost Parliament and, of course, referendums on judges in the trial, we would now put again some strong auditors, and every judge would have his own, who accompanied him and his guardian, and I don't know what - that's not how it works. I agree that it is necessary to establish a system that is effective, which is good, which is basically - but three minutes, surely - which is well placed, set up and discussed. All these implementing things, which may be the result of this, of course, but they belong somewhere else, not just to the Constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u203	Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Rashamon’s experience teaches us to judge the same events from our point of view and give them slightly changed meanings. That is why I would like to add something else to the internal policy committee, which was dedicated to the judiciary. At this meeting, there was also a very clear warning about the work of judges and the delays in the judiciary that we had virtually no hard-line, comprehensive research on where the backlogs were actually generated. Is it really possible to place all the responsibility for judicial backlogs on the bad work of judges and on feminization and on anything else? The fact is that things need to be looked at analytically and from analytical data to a synthetic assessment and then implement conclusions that I think can be long-term for the state of the judiciary, but we are talking about whether we are going to change things in a way that will also have consequences for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u205	The Secretary of State, perhaps it would be better if he spoke to his colleague Jerovsk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u206	First, I would say that legal experts are domestic, they believe that in procedural legislative [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u207	More out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u208	so that here all these possibilities are exhausted to rationalise procedures there. [[...]] However, with regard to the number of judges, I must say that we have a different structure than in Germany. In Germany, besides the judges, we have assistants from the so-called Rechtertretertreters, who in fact carry out those tasks that mean the trial in a broader sense and with us the judges do all the work. And that is why the government has also now adopted a new law on courts, which we introduce to these judicial assistants and thus the bit, even then slowly reduce the number of judges and would also be comparable to Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u209	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u210	Thank you very much. My friend Kremjar obviously wouldn't listen to me or understand. That's why I think it's a waste of time to deal with it. But as he put it, two things, because he didn't understand, you just have to say. I have decidedly, absolutely not committed to abolishing a permanent term of office. However, I advocated the introduction of this five-year trial period, for which, in the initial phase of that time, I do not see my colleague Lavrinc here today. Given his elan and his will, I was expecting his active contribution here today and, of course, I was wondering if there was anything, what kind of matter came in between. Others have taken over his legal affairs or something, whether this is a change in LDS position [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u211	Peace. Do not interfere with the rights of your colleague Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u212	it was stated here by a fellow Kremjar that an effective system should be established. [[...]] I think that's exactly what I've been pledging for, that's exactly what I've been discussing and advocating for an effective system. However, if there is no change in this area, we are not likely to have an effective system for a long time. Here I see some will of political semblance of the current state. Concreteing the current situation, which is not good, as legal experts, international experts, also point out. But this situation, which is not good, is good for someone. I think the conclusion is simple - to whom does such a situation fit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u213	I'm closing the debate. At 9:25 a.m., the National Assembly will move on to a decision on the topics on the agenda today. Until then, I'm putting an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u214	It is time for us to move to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions that have been on the agenda today. Today, the National Assembly addressed constitutional changes. We have three agenda items. First, we will go to point 5 - to the hearing and to the decision on the motion to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA702 /III. This is the area of regionalism in the Constitution. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the position of the Constitutional Commission, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 06.04 this year. I'm going to ask for your attention now. Before voting, I must inform you that in accordance with the provisions of Article 178(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the amendment to the position, if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 and more. The same majority also applies to the adoption of an individual position. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. We will first decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to all the views of the Constitutional Commission. If this amendment is adopted, all other amendments that would otherwise be decided will become irrelevant. First of all, I ask you to check the operation of your voting devices. Please check your voting devices. We are in the middle of a constitutional audit procedure, an absolute majority is required. I see that there are no comments from the Chamber regarding the infallibility of voting devices. Are we voting on the amendment of the parliamentary group Explanation of Vote? [[...]] Please, who wants to explain their voice? A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Since 2001, there have been intense, I will say, professional and political debates on the question of amending Article 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The amendment before us is, in fact, one way to preserve the situation. However, I think most have come to a position that softens in some way the strongly proposed position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It complements it with work, however, following the fears that have arisen and therefore includes the opinion of local communities and therefore prescribes a two-thirds majority of the Members present to adopt a law setting out the area, the seat and so on the province. The amendment before us, of course, speaks of the agreement of the qualified majority of the congregations. The professional commission has clearly taught us, the municipality cannot be the founder of the province, which is an autonomous local community at a second level. The two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members are also the highest possible majority known by this Parliament and used for the most responsible decisions to change the Constitution and so on. If, for the financing of the provinces, such a majority were to be legalized, of course, this would mean that the provinces would not have again. And even the system majority doesn't go into our legislation, for example [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and shall be adopted by a simple majority. For these reasons [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u216	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u217	there is no need to support it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u218	My friend Tsukati, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u219	On behalf of the Group of Members. Our proposal, of course, goes in the direction of finding an intermediate solution to the agreement of the congregations. Not as it is now in the constitution that a total of 100% of consent is required, and not as a government proposal that the opinions of the congregations be disregarded or that the congregations give only a non-binding opinion. We propose that at least two thirds of the congregations agree to establish the provinces. This means, in these two-thirds, at least 51% of the saints are supposed to be for the province. We marvel at this fear of such a condition, but it is likely that the government coalition or it has already lost an option in its mental scheme, so that at some point after all these referendums we can adopt a law that is acceptable to people. In the second part, we propose that the most important matters concerning the provinces be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Why? This is because regions across Slovenia need to be given equal conditions, in some way a draft regional constitution. These conditions must, however, be the same. However, these conditions must be firm, independent of daily policy. This is only if it is accepted by the State Assembly with an appropriate majority. And this must not only cover the name of the province, the capital of the province, the centre or border of the province, but also the most important matters, such as organisation, jurisdiction and financing. Just funding isn't enough. There is also a need for an organisation. In fact, what will be the electoral system, who will be in the province's world, what tasks the regional leader will have and so on. It is also important what the region will have. Will she have jurisdiction solely in the field of utilities? Or in the field of basic health, secondary education, economic development and the like, I am not talking about financing. This is why it is absolutely necessary to accept it in this direction and our amendment is so imposed that it excludes the government proposal. If our amendment is not adopted, then we cannot support the next procedure of the government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u220	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. If the amendment is adopted, everyone else will become irrelevant and the position of the Constitutional Commission. If the amendment is adopted, all other amendments become irrelevant. Just a moment, just so there's nothing wrong. Let's go with the vote. If there is any comment, it will be taken into account when we arrive at the subject of the decision. First of all, we have before us the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to all the views of the Constitutional Commission. We're making a decision. As you know, a majority of 46 Members and Members are required. 74 in attendance, 23 in, 42 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[42 versus.]] The required majority has not been reached. We are moving on to a decision on the three amendments to the third position of the Commission, which are mutually exclusive. We will first decide on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. If this amendment is adopted, the two amendments will remain irrelevant. Is there any comment on this? We decide on three amendments to the third position of the Commission. We decide first on the amendment of the SLS Group. Please explain to my colleague Rokavec's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u221	Thank you for the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this amendment because it actually represents a healthy compromise that is necessary and necessary and that provides the necessary sound basis for the establishment of the provinces. We estimate that it is not enough to vote only on the areas, seats and names by means of a law which requires the provision of a two-thirds majority of Members present and Members present. We believe that the method of establishing, financing and, of course, determining how the municipalities will participate in the decision on the area, the seat and the name of the provinces is crucial for the establishment of the landscape. We believe that these are the minimum elements for which the necessary political consensus should be reached, which goes beyond the current vote of the majority in the National Assembly. Because we are going to and from this path of landscape formation for the first time in history, it is also necessary to reach such a compromise in the design of the landscapes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u222	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u223	We will also support the amendment signed by the Slovenian People's Party in the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that this middle path is somehow a compromise between the ideas on one side of the SDS, where the question is, if even the landscapes were to be reached at any time and we are afraid that the story of the establishment of Slovenian municipalities would be repeated, and on the other hand, we find the amendment of the Liberal Democracy or other political parties, which is really too much of a subject to daily policy. We therefore assess and appeal to the National Assembly that it would make sense to adopt such an amendment, or amendments, of the Slovenian People's Party, which, on the one hand, includes the municipalities in the design, and, of course, this integration is only in the form of an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u224	I no longer see the hand or the request for explanations of vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to the third position of the Commission. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 75 present, 17 for, 43 versus. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are now voting on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD and DeSUS MPs. If the amendment is adopted, the next amendment of the national communities becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment of the LDS MP and the ZLSD and DesUS MPs. We're voting. Peace in the hall is in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 45 for and 21 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] The amendment was not accepted. 46 or more is the majority required for admission. We are voting on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. We're voting! Can you calm down during the vote, please? Order! 75 present, 47 for, 25 versus. (For the vote was 47.)(against 25.) This amendment has been adopted. Now we're deciding where we stand. I'm not going to keep making decisions until there's so much noise in the hall. We're in the middle of a constitutional audit procedure. Please! Order! We have completed the vote on the amendments and are moving on to a decision on individual positions. We're voting on the first position! Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the first position. This is the position of the Constitutional Commission. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote! 71 present, 45 for, 19 vs. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] The first position was not adopted. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u225	Before further decisions are taken, I would like to take a half-hour recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u226	Half an hour is possible, 45 is as much as possible. I'll set it for half an hour. It's 9:40. At 10: 10 a.m., we will resume the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u227	Continuation of the decision on positions. May I remind you that, in the last vote, we have rejected the first position proposed by the Constitutional Commission. Now we're going to a different position. Please, Comrade Rokavec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I ask whether the National Assembly can even vote on any other position, since the minutes on the work of the Constitutional Commission clearly and unequivocally state that the Constitutional Commission has proposed only one position to the National Assembly in this context. Then there are only one, two and three paragraphs in the notes. Now that we have voted on the amendments today, if there were more views, if that were true, we should only vote first on the amendment to the first position and then vote immediately on the first position. I therefore believe that there is no longer any basis for the National Assembly to vote on any other position. As I read correctly from the work of the Constitutional Commission, so does it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u229	Let me just explain that the decision of the National Assembly is as decided by the Constitutional Commission. Let's go from point of view to point of view. I also explained at the outset what the decision-making process would be and no one objected. But we decide as we did on the Constitutional Commission. Only that there will be no misunderstandings, colleagues and colleagues, even though this is not my duty right now, is the decision of the National Assembly today at this stage for which an absolute majority, 46 or more, is required. The constitutional law must ultimately require 60 votes or more, so that we are not at a decisive stage in this regard today. Today we provide only guidance for the further work of the Constitutional Commission to prepare the law. We are now voting on a different position. Anybody want to explain their voice? My friend Tuck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u230	Mr President, there is only one position on local self-government or landscapes in the material for the session. And you put this position to the vote and we voted. The next position is likely to be about the next EPA. The EPA, which we have now voted on, has been concluded and I ask you to move on to the next item, which means the following position, the next EPA.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u231	We vote as we have decided on the Constitutional Commission. That's not an issue. Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Respectable. I will support the proposal for a position under order number 2 in the proposed text. Of course, it is entirely illogical that the honourable opposition colleagues who proposed in your amendment under order number 1 that article 121 of the Constitution should be amended in accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, when we voted on the position of one, "The proposed text of amendment 121 of the Constitution should be adopted in the proposed text", you voted against. And the second position is that, by prior agreement of the municipality, the State may transfer to the municipality the administration of individual tasks under State jurisdiction, provided that it also provides funds for that purpose. This change is logical and meaningful and, of course, would propose to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u233	Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u234	I don't know if anyone here is so, I'd say, laying low. We have adopted one position and here in the work material is one position, but of course it has several points. But that, gentlemen, is one point of view. Please don't move around. It's a constitutional issue. It's a serious matter. One position in three points.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u235	Peace in the hall! My colleague Tsukati, Vice-President of the Commission - I only want peace in the Chamber - you know how we made decisions on the Constitutional Commission, so we also take them here, according to the points, there is no doubt about this, not at the Constitutional Commission or at the National Assembly. That's what I said when we started making decisions. And that's how we're going to make a final decision. Then, when decisions are taken after us in the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission will see what it can do with a constitutional audit procedure, depending on the positions adopted or not adopted. Anyone else want a word about this? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide what we did on the Constitutional Commission. We vote on the second position presented by the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. 69 present, 50 for, 16 versus. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] This is accepted. We are now voting on the third position. Anybody want a word? Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u236	Dear colleagues! I think we are ahead of the doomsday article, and we are all aware that without the adoption of this regionalisation position in the Republic of Slovenia there will be another five, ten years and so on. Whether it's right or wrong - that's not true, Mr. Rokavec. It is worth supporting this Article, since it is ensured that the question of the formation of the regions will be respected by the municipalities in order to ensure that the relevant law, which will determine the area, seat, name, will be adopted in the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. This was the position adopted by the Commission with sufficient support. And I really think we're going to waste a lot of opportunity considering that, in three years, the state of Slovenia is mature for decentralisation, mature for creating a second degree of local self-government by law, as in Europe and everywhere in the world, where they found that the principle of subsidiarity [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u237	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u238	Essentially. [[...]] All those who are serious about decentralisation are invited to support this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u239	Order! Comrade Sok has a word first, then colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u240	I must say that as a non-member of the Constitutional Commission of this material, as it is prepared, I do not understand. It's simple, I'd say, abuse, what you're doing now, the National Assembly. If we vote on this, Mr President, what it says here is written by the Constitutional Commission, it therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following position and three points are written. And we voted on this and I'm sorry, dear colleagues, there was not enough support. Then you requested a break, you received a few more Members and then, of course, the second and third times on the same position. Listen, that's not how it works, but you can do it. But I don't know where you'll get those. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u241	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u242	The ten votes you're still missing. [[...]] Where are you gonna get that? Well, that's a stupid thing to do. You won't get these ten votes and this battle is here today, if that's how you mean to work, this battle is lost, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u243	Peace in the hall! Comrade Squirrel, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u244	I'm not done here because I'm being accused of yelling. I'm not yelling, I'm talking loud because we don't listen here. And what right do you have to rape us with such a vote? Three times on one matter, and then you think if it's not the first time, it's the second or third time. This is, of course, an abnormal act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u245	Comrade Companion, then you have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u246	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also believe that unfortunately the procedure is in dispute in this case, but I would like to ask whether I have the right attitude on which I am voting. If I support this third position, I also support the amendment, which reads as follows: The municipality in the area where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live shall form a province with a special statute. Is that what we are voting on now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u247	This was the amendment that was adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u248	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Then I can't take that position. I have a good solution before me, which has been proposed by three parliamentary groups to the amendment of colleague Battelli. And that was a good solution. And there you wrote: The municipalities of the province cannot provide a territorial element of self-government, they cannot provide borders. The municipality cannot provide funding to the province. This can only be provided by the State. They cannot provide a functional element of the tasks. The tasks can only be provided by the State. These are the reasons why I, unfortunately, cannot support this position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u249	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Comrade Bayuk. First of all, colleague Azhishch procedurally. I'm a colleague of mine. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I demand a 15-minute recess so that we can understand what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u251	Sure. 15 minutes of rest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u252	Sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u253	We'll pick it up at 22.35. No, I gave my word earlier because you said so yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u254	We will move on to the last decision regarding EPO 702, the area of regionalism, then we will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is EPO 365. In order to avoid misunderstandings, please take a preliminary look at the amendments tabled to the position of the Constitutional Commission that you have received on the bench. There you have a third position on the Constitutional Commission. In the report, you have the text under point 3 on which we will vote. The text of Article 143 of the Constitution should be amended to read: "Article 143 - province. The province is a wider self-governance local community that carries out local affairs of wider importance and by law of a particular matter of regional importance. The province shall be established by law establishing the territory, seat and name of the province and adopted by the State Assembly by a majority of the majority of the votes of the Members present. Before deciding on the establishment of the province, the National Assembly must call on the municipal councils in and around the municipality to give their opinion. The State may, by law, transfer to the province individual tasks under State jurisdiction and must therefore provide them with funds." With the amendment, we also adopted the text: The municipalities in which the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live form the provinces with a special statute. This third position will now be decided. We're voting! My friend Dr. Bayuk wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Apparently, you're continuing with your position as you predicted. We do not find any other text in the Rapporteur than a single position. For us, this is totally unacceptable from a procedural point of view. On behalf of the Group of Members, I declare that we will not cooperate, we will obstruct from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-06-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u256	Comrade Dr. Bajuk, before you're obstructed, I'd like to explain something to you. I was very slow and very careful to say how we're going to vote. I think I did the right thing in all the decisions. Rather than continue with some obstruction of the audit process, I would like to suspend the meeting today and continue tomorrow. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Wait, we're in the middle of a constitutional audit procedure. No shadow can fall on the process, nor can any shadow fall on the process because of my actions, but I would like to be examined by my colleagues if they want, and we will continue this decision tomorrow in other decisions. So tomorrow we will continue with all the agenda items on the agenda, and we will continue with this point. It is right to make sure that we did the right thing. By tomorrow, I'm putting an end to the decision, and we're going to continue as scheduled.
