ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I am beginning my last regular session in this term. I say hello to everyone! We're starting the 37th session of the National Assembly. It was called upon on the basis of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Several of our colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Dr. Brejc, Fabjan, Horvat, Kebric, Levič, colleague of Mrzel, Franz Onbulj apologizes for the opening of the session and Franci Rokavec will be absent by 16:00. At the meeting I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Master Anton Rop, to the 1st item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to all items of the agenda, and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the representative of the Council of Justice, to the 30th item of the agenda. Say good-bye to everyone again! We are moving on to the agenda of the 37th meeting. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 4 June this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, dear colleagues and colleagues, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. The members of the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia propose to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park, which is in the second reading procedure. Does the motioner want to step down? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you, President. First of all, in the Slovenian National Party, of course, we are surprised if the College has been able to withdraw three proposals for laws, on municipal government, on societies and on promoting coherent regional development. He could probably reach an agreement and withdraw the proposed law. The second reason why we propose to withdraw was that in the review of the amendments that we have tabled, it was noted that the amendments were proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on 8.6., but are online on 9.6., which is certainly not fair. Since 8.6. deadline for the submission of amendments has expired, amendments have been tabled in the network with date 9.6. and in the material we have received with date 8.6. It's not fair and it's not fair! Finally, in the Slovenian National Party, we consider that the proposal for a law which is unacceptable in the form in which it is presented. The fact is that the proposed law has gone gravely into a multi-memory space that is rich in natural, cultural habitat, landscape architecture, and our assessment would have great and irreparable consequences. Furthermore, in the Slovenian National Party, we request that this law be withdrawn from the next parliamentary procedure by starting a new procedure on the basis of a new draft in which it will be possible to hold at least a 60-day public debate on a draft law that would be in accordance with Article 58 of the Nature Conservation Act. With regard to this law, colleagues and colleagues, there are several open, unresolved and pressing issues, and since all these issues need to be addressed in the most consistent manner, we estimate that the professional public, interest groups and the park of the living population must also be included in the preparation of the law. At the same time, we justify the proposal or request for withdrawal with an important fact, which has been pointed out in a coalition of non-governmental organisations to preserve the Triglav National Park. This is a proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park, which is being considered in the National Assembly, which is not identical to the one for which the initial thesis is being put, as locals have clearly demonstrated at the local referendum against the collapse of the area of the national park. I think the justification was very clear, very concrete and very precise. And I would like to suggest to my colleagues and colleagues that you support our request.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u3	Representatives of parliamentary groups may now be identified until the withdrawal proposal. Please, Comrade Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we are certainly committed to withdrawing this proposal from the agenda. It is the fact that this is an extremely complex law, which has caused a lot of controversy in the public, that the procedure for adopting this law was not in accordance with our current rules of procedure. At the end of the second reading in the National Assembly, two more happened. The Coalition Slovenia, as well as the National Party, tabled its amendments, for which we received a letter that these amendments were not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It was that amendments were tabled in the second reading on behalf of the applicants, not on behalf of the groups. And we are convinced that this cannot be the reason why the amendments would be inappropriately tabled, for this could be immediately alerted by our professional services. And when they were warned, our experts fixed it. If I go back, this law was from the first reading to the public presentation of opinions and to the general debate twice, if not even three times, and many amendments have been tabled by the first-signed, Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We believe that such a complex and complex law cannot be accepted. And, of course, we would suggest that you gentlemen from the LDS find this out yourself, and just before the end of your term of office, you do not rape this national assembly with solutions that are not generally acceptable. For it is certain that those, and many who do not agree with this law, will not only be the inhabitants of the National Park of Triglav, but also the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, then the Council for the Protection of the Environment, the Civil Initiative and who else would find themselves strongly opposed, not only to such a proposal as it is, but also to the way in which this law was made through the procedure until today's second hearing in this National Assembly. For this reason, once again, I say that we are firmly committed to withdrawing this law from today’s agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u5	Comrade Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please, for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. In our parliamentary group, we have been opposed from the very beginning to this way of dealing with this law as you have served it. We have already warned in our own consideration that there is a procedure, that there are a number of procedural reasons why this law cannot be dealt with. For the first hearing began in violation of the legislation and the Rules of Procedure. Proponents have completely bypassed the professional bases, not listed anywhere, not even alerted to any inconsistencies, to any conflict. Another time. The decision at the June 28th meeting of the National Assembly last year was misused when it was agreed that the procedure would continue only when these expert opinions would be more than harmonised. This did not happen, but the process simply continued in the autumn work. It has also been manipulated throughout the examination of this law, both by texts and by cartographic material. For the purposes of the various public presentations, the applicants used different texts and different cartographic materials, even in the public presentation of opinions, a complementary proposal was presented to the law, which was adopted only a month later by the Committee of the State Infrastructure Council, not in the text presented there. There are also a number of substantive reasons. Since there is no expert analysis for the adoption of this law, no SWOT analysis has been performed. We are also of the opinion that the existing law only legalises the existing situation, that is to say black construction for the Triglav National Park area. There is also no provision for compensation for those who have land in the park and because of the limitations that the park brings, there is also limited use of these land. With certain things I also warned you in a special letter last October, and I also specified there why the law was not suitable for consideration at the National Assembly. We are particularly surprised that, in the order of all these discrepancies, illegality and infringements of procedures, you have, I would say, withdrawn the amendments that we have tabled together with the professional and professional public, and we believe that this is a major abuse in the adoption of this law. Therefore, I propose that the law in the procedure be withdrawn and that it be discussed later, for example in a new reference to the National Assembly, when there is sufficient opportunity for the legal text to be drafted in peace, sufficiently professionally and in a weighty manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u7	Does any of the other members of the group want a word just for a second, now they have the word of a group of Members if they want it that way? [[...]] None. You want procedural? My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest you clear the reputation of the National Assembly and that you, as President of the National Assembly, withdraw the law from the procedure. This is a whole series of infringements of the actual procedure, for the first time, when the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is being tabled after the deadline. The deadline was 8.6., the amendment was tabled on 9.6., the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the main office records the date 10.6., but this amendment is taken into account here. This is not particularly fair because the Slovenian National Party, SDS and NSI members have tabled a number of amendments, but have not been accepted due to the wrong signature. They were written on the lists of Members of the groups, but we signed only one Member by mistake below. I think that the services of the National Assembly could and in due time draw attention to this unloving mistake, which is only of technical importance, but not of substantive importance, but that has not happened. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, once again I appeal to you, to save the reputation of the National Assembly so that the newspapers will not be full again, as some usurp the power, and withdraw from the procedure this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u9	The College of the National Assembly proposed the agenda, as you received by reference. I don't have the authority to do this. However, it shall be held by the State Assembly and shall decide by vote on the withdrawal proposal. I now put this proposal to the vote. There's no explanation for the voice. No, no, no. Not at this point, they are only the proposers or representatives of the groups of Members. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. Can you please see if the voting devices are okay? We're voting. Yes, the raised hand of my colleague Rupar means that the voting device was not all right. Can I ask the technical services to come to the hall and help with the voting work of my colleague Rupar? Until then, I'm adjourning. All right, buddy Rupar? There's no explanation for the voice, Comrade Wolf. Can we move on to a decision? I asked earlier if anyone would like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members, but no one has applied for the floor, so that no explanation of vote can be given. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 36 in and 22 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] The proposal got the required majority. The law has been removed from the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law on municipal registrarship at first reading. Any of the qualified speakers want a word? No, no, no. Then we will be Master Vizjak on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess the need to regulate this area of municipal registrarship as one of the most important matters, so we oppose the withdrawal of this item from the agenda, because the purpose and not least the expectation of people after the establishment of a higher level of order in local communities, in particular municipal centres, is more than necessary. And people estimate that something needs to be done by the local community as well. The fact is, through its repressive authorities, the country is unsatisfyingly concerned about the fundamental areas of order in local communities. From wrong parking, not least to ensuring the destruction of public infrastructure and all other urban centres. That is why we believe that addressing this problem is a priority. Regardless of the fact that we are just before the end of the term of office of this national assembly, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is only worth dealing with this law. Nor do we view it as the best in this text, which is proposed, but we consider it a suitable basis for further consideration. Certainly, however, in public treatment, this first reading, it has also shown a lot of clarity, and of course we cannot follow the college's intentions in any way, so important that it is a subject of concern to the many townspeople who live in the centres, in order to withdraw it, even though it has already been proposed. I'm not particularly familiar with the argument that some of the points would stall and then, of course, work harder. I don't think we're going to get some time on the basis of a previously removed point. As a result, this law can be dealt with at first reading. We will therefore, of course, oppose the withdrawal of this item from the agenda in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And, of course, we also propose to the other parliamentary groups that this is just such an important topic, which in some ways concerns many of our citizens, that we deal with this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u11	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Please. My friend Jelinczych. We're discussing a motion for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the withdrawal of this law. In fact, the law on municipal government does nothing but extend police powers to lower areas, lower units, and so we can expect to have half written editors in the shortest possible time who will work with short-term ambulances in Slovenia. Given that the Ministry of the Interior has proposed this law, it seems to me that Minister Bohinc of the United List read that literature, that book on Butalci written by Fran Milczynski, but I'm sure he didn't understand, he thought it was a textbook, but it's not a textbook, gentlemen, so I can't accept such laws as the one proposed by the Minister of State. What they demand and what they are trying to bring to the level of these municipal officials is, in fact, a mockery, one of the major laughs in the last term of the National Assembly. And it's like, somehow I think it's just one stunted laugh from the Ministry of the Interior, from one bullshit to another, and each one is bigger. I don't know, it's a good thing the mandate ends so we don't have to experience anything else. These proposals on armed guards have also been made, and, as shown in this law, the editors should also have the possibility of arresting, then reviewing people and so on. Why don't you go take a look, and let's just take one example or one of the cases where the editors wrote those notes in order to fulfill the standard? But where do we come to such an unorganized country that we give some others such powers? I think this is ridiculous to avoid this mockery of the rule of law, and we will vote in favour of the withdrawal of this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u13	I suggest that we speak respectfully about both the names and surnames of individuals and the roles they have. Dr Bohinc is Minister of the Interior, and I propose that, when he mentions his role, he be addressed by this name. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Nobody. Then we will move on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship, which is at first reading. I'm putting the motion to a vote. 67 present, 51 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] This motion for withdrawal has been adopted. The College of the President of the National Assembly also proposes to withdraw the proposal for a social law from the agenda. This proposal for a law is also at first reading. Do qualified speakers want a word? Nobody. Then I propose the withdrawal of the bill on society to the vote. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 66 present, 54 for and 1 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] This motion for withdrawal has been adopted. The College also proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. Do representatives or qualified speakers want a word? Please, colleague Kelemin, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! In our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, in fact, we are surprised by the conduct of the members of the government majority, so important a bill, which has been given so many words, is once again trying to get off the agenda of the national assembly with some special manoeuvre. Indeed, in our group, we will oppose this proposal because we are aware that the existing draft law, which has been passed for years, if I am not mistaken, 1999 did not justify its mission or the policy established by this law, the ruling majority or the government in that period did not realize or realize in a smaller part than was expected of all parties, but, above all, the areas that are underdeveloped did not receive those promises and those assistance that would reduce these regional differences in the development of Slovenia. In addition, we note that we have recently set up a new ministry last year, if I am not mistaken. In this way, the government and the ruling majority have also tried to give tremendous weight to this issue in Slovenia. Unfortunately, with this simple move now, members of the government majority are somehow expressing their distrust, in our opinion, of the Minister for her efforts, for her work, in order to move things in the area of regional development significantly forward. We know that the EU or the expected assistance from the European Community funds is waiting for us now. And although the existing law also makes it possible to operate in that area, we all expected, together, not only Members of the National Assembly, I think that most Members in the National Assembly, especially local communities and also economic operators, a small economy and so on, in this area of movement. However, unfortunately, you do not want and move away from solving this extremely important issue in the future. In short, our parliamentary group opposes this proposal and wants this law to live in the Slovenian space as we already wanted in 1999 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and which has also caused great damage in Slovenia. By the way, we've lost a lot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u15	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u16	Many opportunities that could be taken advantage of, but we cannot fix them again today. [[...]] In short, we object to the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u17	Mag. Drobnic will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by his colleague Jelinčič and colleague Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u18	The New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal to withdraw the law on promoting coherent regional development. Therefore, it considers that such a law should be adopted in Slovenia. Look at the differences between regions or landscapes, as we now define in Slovenia, they are increasing, and this could be a contribution to coherent development, to reducing differences and we do not understand why when a government establishes a special ministry, it prepares everything necessary for the law, accepts it in government and then rejects it. On what grounds? In addition, we need to establish an institutional structure to draw funds from the European Union funds. This would also allow this law, although we do not agree with all the solutions concerning the provinces or areas, but it would be possible to remedy this in the process of adopting the law. In short, we also have invitations to develop tourist destinations such as the Ministry of the Economy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u19	There's too much noise in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u20	Or you could listen a little if you don't, because you can go out this time if you don't care. In short, then your Minister of Economy is giving you such invitations to encourage tourist destinations to exclude the less developed municipalities in advance and to provide only Portorož with money and then Kranj Gori, Pohorje and another area. Those who already have a good development anyway. Apparently behind are financial lobbying that want to further implement this power. Such a law could also be a kind of resistance to this and ensure a coherent development. It is also necessary to perform acts or to show acts, not just some form of paperwork or principles. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal to withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinčič has the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will not support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. He's got a few reasons to talk to me about it. First of all, the government itself is not coherent. We have a proposal from the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Regional Development, which is arguing with each other, who will do something despite the fact that they are, or are, both ministers or Mrs Minister and Mr Police Minister from the same party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u23	Minister of the Interior, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u24	While the Minister is trying to establish her political option with the name Sunčnica also through this legal framework. The other thing is funding. We still do not know what funding for the municipalities will be and what funding for these so-called regions should be. The fact is, we do not even know what the costs of the regions will be. Because, starting with, the solution started with the letter c instead of starting with the letter a. And I don't know if the background of all of this is that each of these regions should actually have its own regional parliament, which is not supposed to have fewer members than the largest urban or municipal council, and of course all the accompanying services. Which means in 14 regions about 4 to 5 thousand new bureaucrats who would sit there and have a nice time at the expense of taxpayers, get money and nothing else. Actually, it's a scary thing. And it's just that some parties want to put their assigned staff in well-paid places that will have paid for by law. The Republic of Slovenia cannot afford this. And we certainly will not support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u25	We are now talking about the proposal to withdraw the law from the agenda. Mr Diaci would like to explain the position of the Youth Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. We believe that it is appropriate to withdraw this law, for this law is one of those who belong in their package, including the law on the financing of municipalities, including the establishment of provinces. Because we can get into a situation that happened in 1999, when we adopted one law that everyone today interprets differently. The results of this law are more or less visible on the ground. Therefore, I would like to give two more initiatives so that, in fact, this proposal for a law will be later in the first reading, which will be called upon by the new Parliament to add some more data. I propose that they be assessed to the extent that GDP cannot actually be determined by purchasing power per capita in relation to the individual region envisaged. And to prepare an organigram, an organigram of both the existing state and the potential new state. At the same time, I would also suggest that certain, I will say, print scaffolds repair, because one such beautiful region as Savinjska is in this document without one very important letter A at the beginning, and I hope that this is not a general view of this region, but that it is only a print scribbling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u27	Mr Podobnik on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! At least three reasons are why we will not support the proposal for a decision within the Group of Members to withdraw from the agenda. We also discussed this in the parliamentary group today, and we also received information about the reasons why the college decided to do so. My friend Brenčič was at a college meeting. Firstly, at the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly, when we removed this item from the agenda, there was a commitment to be addressed at the first regular meeting of the National Assembly, that is today. The second argument is of a business nature. If today we withdraw this item from the agenda and we do not consider it in this mandate, then this provision of the Rules of Procedure follows. It is considered that no general discussion on the basis of Article 122 or on the basis of Article 126 has been initiated before the expiry of the term of office of the national assembly. This means that much work, however, is done by colleagues and colleagues, much of the work that has been done in the preparation of this law goes literally to nothing. And that would be inappropriate for the department that led the preparation of this project. And that there will be no misunderstanding, no, that's not the law of the provinces. In front of us, one of our colleagues spoke of solutions that are the solutions to the land law. It's a law that solves another area. He's talking about the development regions, not the provinces. And the third argument is an argument which is of a substantive nature. If neither the National Assembly nor the first debate are held, then it means that, in this mandate in the field of coherent regional development, this mandate has not done anything so to speak. Therefore, we will not support the proposal not to deal with the law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u29	Would any of the members of the group like a word explaining the vote or position of withdrawal? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll move on to the decision. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development from the agenda. 67 in attendance, 32 in and 27 in. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 27.]] The proposal was adopted. I have not received any proposals for enlargement, so that the National Assembly can now set the agenda Please? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Expansion? No, I don't have an extension proposal. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] A written proposal for enlargement should be submitted by 12 a.m. yesterday. [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? An extension proposal? I give you my word, we'll make it clear whether it's true or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The attack on Mira Petka is a great blemish, not only within borders, but also beyond borders. Our Commission adopted a report last week, so the reasons for enlargement came from a reference. We have given the report immediately, it is already Friday and I am counting on you to keep your word, Mr President, so that as soon as the Commission does its work, you will take your full authority to place the Commission's report on the cause and background of the attack on Mira Petka on the regular agenda. Now, if we don't do this today, then it's just a July session. I do not think it would be good if this report were not addressed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u31	We'll find out immediately if the proposal was made. I didn't hold a college meeting on Friday because of my absence, so we'll find out quickly. And as far as such a proposal was given, of course, it was decided upon. So I'm just going to stop work for a moment before deciding on the agenda. No proposal has been formally tabled, nor does it meet the conditions of Article 58, as the Secretary-General tells me. So the report will go to the July session. The vote on the agenda is ahead of us, as we have taken it with decisions so far. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. 66 present, 48 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that agenda 37, which is the last regular meeting adopted. On the 1st item of the agenda, this is on the question of MEPs and Members, and we will pass right at 3 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning. However, I invite representatives of the government and the President to the hall at 15.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POINTS AND THE CONTRACTS With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 28 Members and Members within the deadline of business. We know the rules of order. And according to them, I will give my word. I welcome the Prime Minister, Master Anton Rope, his members of the government, ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, it is all in order to raise the first three questions raised by representatives of the opposition's parliamentary groups. First of all, he has the floor for the question of Comrade Victory Jelinčič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Prime Minister and everyone else! In recent times, the most pressing issue is the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, the so-called question of the ecological fishing zone, and the implementation of that meeting in Brussels, which, in fact, according to Croatian claims, and also now more and more recently, according to the Italian side, has no particular weight. The matter will go to the analies of Brussels diplomacy as some preparatory meeting that has not been completed. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, given the result the Liberal Democracy has gained now, yesterday at the elections, when it turned out that the Slovenian people do not support kneeling in front of neighbouring Croatia: Will you insist on ordering your foreign minister to raise the deadline for Croatia's entry into the European Union on 17 and 18 this month in Brussels? Let me remind you that years ago, on 26 May 1993, the National Assembly adopted and signed the positions and conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, where under number 212-08/91-3/29 it took place and demanded the uniformity of the Piran Bay, which Mr Drnovšek did not take into account later or not at all, but went to talk at a strange semi-friendly level with the Croatian President Račan and sell the Slovenian territory or give it to neighbouring Croats. I ask, Mr President: Do you intend to continue Drnovskov's policy? Did you also submit to Drnovško's dictatorship of bowing to the Croats? Will you protect Slovenian national interests and not give the Croats a ticket to enter the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you so much for asking. So the question concerns the conservation ecological fishing zone. And as you probably know, last year Croatia declared a conservation ecological fishing zone and Slovenia protested this and also referred to Croatia's decision as non-European, and we persisted in this position. This year we proposed at the quadrilateral meeting, I myself proposed that we start meetings and try to reach agreement with Croatia on the ecological fishing zone. With the aim of trying to find a European solution to this case. Of course, the European solution represents a common solution, a compromise and, of course, a consideration of the interests of all countries in this area. These meetings have taken place and unfortunately no final agreement has been reached in the context of these meetings. And it was only at a meeting, which you also spoke about, where there was also a representative of the European Commission, that an agreement was reached. With regard to the ecological fishing zone, and since Croatia has already amended its legislation to provide for changes to the existing regime, it has, of course, removed only unilaterally, declared invalid the application of this regime to the Member States of the European Union, the eco-fishing zone. At that time, we said that we believe that a unilateral decision is not European and that is why we demanded that a common position be brought into line and that additional arrangements be reached. A joint agreement was reached in Brussels on 4 June at the meeting of the authorised Secretaries of State of Italy, Slovenia, Croatia and the representative of the European Commission. And this common agreement is also recorded in the minutes you have discussed and the essence of this agreement is that Croatia will not enforce this zone in any way, that is to say, in no way will it be and in no way can this zone apply to any member of the European Union. Of course not with Slovenia in this regard either. And we will seek a common solution for the ecological and fishing zone or protection in the Adriatic Sea, that was agreed upon. However, this will be taken into account, an explicit expression of this agreement, vital interests, in particular those of the neighbouring Member States of the European Union. I agree that the interpretations of this agreement were different and that is why Slovenia has also insisted in the discussions within the European Union on the text being prepared for the European Council. Within the discussions on Coreper and today in GAERC to stop this text as an official text and complement the conclusions of the European Council. And this text was later coordinated with the Italian side and other members of the European Union, and now in the proposal for the final text and the essence of this text is that the European Union, the European Council, takes note. It takes note that Croatia has decided not to apply any aspect of any aspect of the eco-fishing zone to members of the European Union, but, of course, it is explicitly added in this text, implicitly considering this agreement, which is described in this entry as an agreement, as an "agreement", and this is an explicit expression in this text. This means that everything recorded in this entry from this tripartite meeting to which the EU has joined will be valid and, of course, Slovenia will insist that everything agreed there becomes an official document of the European Council and of the European Union. This is, of course, essential for Slovenia and the protection of vital Slovenian interests in this case, and in particular for the conduct of European policy in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u36	Additional question, please, or supplement the question, please, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u37	Mr President, all European diplomacy has assessed this issue as a victory for the Croatian side. There was no agreement, but only a record of a meeting that was just initialled. And Croatia has committed itself only to delay implementation there somewhere third, until about 3 October, but not anything else. And the entire text, even now in the European Charter, has been amended. And the European Council only takes note of what was happening there and nothing else. In short, it is one particular note, one of many documents in a thick file of relations between Slovenia and Croatia. Remember, however, that on May 26, 1993, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia specifically stated in point 8: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Government to ensure that, in cases of unacceptable unilateral acts by the Croatian side, on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, diplomatic, political and economic action and to safeguard the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia." This has not happened again until today, from 1993 to 2004. And, Mr President, I do not understand how, even in your mandate, I understand that earlier Drnovšku did not care what happened to our country, but also in your mandate, you will not go after any of these actions to protect Slovenian national interests. The undeniable fact is that in these years, Croatia has been constantly stabbing us in the back for 11 years and yet it has no Slovenian, so-called diplomatry or anything else, or for which it does nothing else to settle the matter. The fact is that Croatia was on the side of Nazism in the second war and that Yugoslavia had won the Adriatic Sea. After the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, the Adriatic Sea should be the good of all former republics. This has been promised in the early 1990s by Europe, and I think this is a meaningful way of continuing the talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u38	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The fact is that Croatia declared last year an eco-fishing zone and that it is to enter into force on 3 October this year also for Slovenia. We have also achieved through diplomatic activities, including intra-EU activity, including through the European Commission and through interviews with European policy that the eco-fishing zone for Slovenia will not become operational and will not start to be implemented until we have adopted and reached a common agreement on the ecological fishing zone, which is of paramount importance. The eco-fishing zone can never be implemented, at least as long as Croatia wants to enforce European policy, to enter the European Union in such a way as to affect any interest of Slovenia, and in particular what is important and crucial, it is, no forerunner can have at the border at sea, no predecessor of access to the open sea, so it is of paramount importance that it is in this agreement that it is in the official document of the European Union and of the European Council and, of course, that Slovenia will insist that it is not in any way capable of affecting the interests of any country. Of course, Slovenia and this interest of Slovenia have been very determined and we will continue to apply it, I can assure you that. And I think that this solution, which is now on the table, is European, and it is not true that it is only a record and it is crucial for us to achieve through COREPER and through GAERC and, of course, also through the European Council that this agreement, that these arrangements become an official document of the European Union, which, of course, will accompany Croatia on its way to the European Union. And in this context we are and will protect Slovenian national interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The next question to the Prime Minister will be raised by colleague Janez Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers! The question I am asking you is related to the Department of Health and Education, Science and Sport. But due to the current and acute nature of the problem, Mr. Prime Minister, I am devoting it to you. It touches on the treatment of cancer patients in the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenian society is ageing and is increasingly suffering from cancer in the Republic of Slovenia, so I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, how is the government: How are the competent government departments and other competent state institutions prepared to follow these trends financially or materially? It's about buildings, it's about equipment, it's about frames. I ask you: Do you share our belief that in the field of education of doctors, therapists, oncologists, there has been a serious deficit and there will be a need for new ways to increase the number of oncologists in Slovenia? However, the fact that at the oncology institute, which is the only scientific and therapeutic institution in the field of the treatment of the most serious cases of cancer in Slovenia, has occurred, can be said, a scandalous case that, due to wear-out or foreign mistakes, some emergency apparatus have failed and are not. What will the government do, which elements it has under the law on the implementation of the budget, to achieve as soon as possible that all devices and equipment required at the oncology institute will work? Are you planning a redistribution within individual resources, or are you planning a rebalancing of the state budget? I am sure that if you propose it, you will get a lot of support from all parliamentary groups to do so. And not last: Since it has been suggested that those patients who can't get seats at the oncology institute, drive to Trieste or Celovec within a certain period of time, do you plan to take advantage of the professional potential of Slovenian hospitals, and perhaps in Slovenia open another cancer treatment centre, for example in Maribor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u42	Mr. Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you so much for asking. So, as far as the cancer institute and the necessary renovations and investments in the cancer institute are concerned, this has undoubtedly been the government's priority for some time. And since 2000, we have been working to provide the oncology institute with the largest possible surface area and, of course, new and additional equipment. As you know, about 13 billion, 13.4 billion Slovenian tolls for these investments were foreseen in the development programme plan in the case of the Cancer Institute. And these have also come true. Approximately 2.7 billion, a billion 600, and this year 6 billion 600 for the Cancer Institute. And construction is speeding up. On the basis of the accident that occurred, floods in the previous year, we have also adopted a special law providing additional funds of 4 billion tolars, Slovenians, to accelerate this construction, particularly in the first phase of the Cancer Institute. And according to the information that's available to me, this building is running fast. And by the end of this year, it will be over. So it actually comes from a common useful area, I have a data here, 17,000 square meters, up to 38 thousand 306 square meters of the area of the Cancer Institute, which will make this institute more comparable to any other hospital. At the same time, investment projects are under way. And precisely because of this problem that you have pointed out, it is agreed that the institute will receive another modern linear accelerator in the coming months. In such a way that 6 such devices are available. According to the Ministry of Health criteria, this should be sufficient. So, no later than six months, this will be purchased. However, if there is anything else that needs to be added, I suggest that the Minister of Health clarify something in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u44	Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement? At the time it is intended to answer for the Prime Minister? Mr. Minister, Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u45	Dear Member, our possible plans for the establishment of another centre for the treatment of cancer patients have not yet gone in this direction. It is only recently that proposals have been made to create another centre for the therapeutic, so to speak, radiation therapy. Let me mention, long-term plans, and the latest, were always envisaged in Slovenia for 6 radiation devices. Let me specifically mention this because the very irradiation devices have caused this concern to the public. When one of the existing five broke down, let me add, in the process of signing the contract for the fifth and in the invitation to tender for the sixth, so I can confirm that this country or its patients by the end of the year, perhaps in the first months of the next year, will have six radiation devices, that is, most of all, so far in all plans. In recent times, we have seen a comparison with the most developed countries that the number of radiation devices is higher, so the Health Council is already discussing the correct, appropriate number of new devices. And in the event of a decision being taken - I personally believe that this country would need two more radiation devices in the coming years - then it is also reasonable to think that these two devices would be installed at another location, in this case again, as an individual, not as a decision, I mention the possibility that the most appropriate location of the hospital in Maribor would be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u46	Comrade Companion, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and Minister for Response. I must tell you that I am not satisfied with the answer or am not fully satisfied with it. Of course, we also support the Slovenian People's Party to build an oncology institute. To build walls and then fill these walls with high-quality and expensive equipment and then, of course, that in these walls and with this equipment are capable doctors oncologists. I did not get an answer to the question about their education, or do they hold assessments that they lack them in Slovenia. Second question. People who get cancer can't wait. The minister responded correctly, and things will improve by the end of the year. What about until then, does the government not have mechanisms under the current law on budget implementation and also on public procurement to speed up the purchase of this missing piece of equipment? Take advantage of the opportunity the law gives you, and kindly please don't wait. Take advantage of the opportunity the law gives you. But as for the linear accelerator, what if I can get an answer from which financial resources will be covered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u48	You're authorizing, Prime Minister, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u49	First, about the doctor's education. We have foreseen and explained this several times in Parliament to anticipate an increase in the number of doctors by 700 by 2007. In this number we anticipate all the specialties that are necessary. We do not know a particular explanation specifically for the field of oncology, which would indicate a greater need for this particular area. We have quite a few deficient or relatively deficient professions when compared with the European Union. Of course, I am prepared to confirm, as I have said several times, that the number of our doctors is somewhere at the lower border in Europe and that, therefore, after years of almost zero or low growth, we have explained objectively why this was so - cost management, wage increases. All of this in order not to reduce the scope of patient services. Now it's going to a new phase as we increase the number of doctors and the number of nurses. The remuneration for the two linear accelerators envisaged is, of course, provided for in the funds already mentioned by the Prime Minister, in part in the budget fund or investment fund, which we have in the Ministry of Health and partly in addition to the loan mentioned, specifically for the Cancer Institute. This means that the funds for the final number of six linear accelerators are provided. Let me also mention that when a crisis and crisis arises, we must also anticipate when we may have eight linear accelerators, at the moment when one fails, a question arises, which means increased pressure on the remaining seven. In our case, increased pressure on the remaining four. The fundamental issue that the Ministry must provide and is assured by the flood at the oncology institute that patients are not waiting. We've assured you that the operation and waiting for surgery has not been extended for over a month. Today, oncology patients in this country are far from waiting for surgery compared to other patients, which is, of course, the only right thing. They wait less than a month. The same was our question, when it happens to us that the machine breaks down, not how quickly we get a new one, because it takes us four months to edit and prepare it, but where we can send the patients. Let me just add this sentence to mention that the departure, for example, from Koperska to Trieste or departure from Gorenjska to Celovec at a time when we are in the European Union and when we expect difficult patients to be and are already being treated at the clinical centre, we think that is the right answer. However, the legal answer is that direct negotiation could lead us to a story similar to that of an operating mass in a clinical centre. We think the invitation is the right answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much. He now has a question for the Prime Minister, colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u51	Dear Mr. President! At the beginning of last year, Dr. Bajuk and I asked you a few questions and some demands on behalf of the Slovenian Coalition. One of these also referred to a more pluralistic composition of supervisory boards in those companies where the state is the majority owner and where the government operates with this capital. This proposal was then rejected. All we have proposed is that the opposition at the state and local level could propose up to a third of the experts for better control in these supervisory councils. The developments since this request was rejected have shown that this request has yet to be justified. Finally, a recent study by the International Management Institute revealed that the abuse of internal information in Slovenia is the most frequent of all 60 countries and regions. On the other hand, we have a series of cases here, which, at least some, we have also dealt with at two or three extraordinary meetings, which have shown that even when irregularities with severe pain are discovered or come to a day, only operators are responsible. In the case of SIB, the investigation was completed at the level of the operators, following the reports of the prosecution which we have heard. Eyewitnesses say that the Secretary-General of the Government also participated in the meeting where the bank's shares were being negotiated. According to our intel, no investigation was initiated in this direction. Then we have the Friday case, where there are also performers in court. For the time being, the investigation has not gone any further in the background, except for the parliamentary commission. We have a Orion case where, according to our information, the investigation is not going anywhere, even though there are people here in the current government who have been sitting in supervisory institutions that have issued permits to these companies despite incomplete documentation. Following the last extraordinary session, a criminal complaint was lodged concerning the very harmful conduct of state-owned companies, and the prosecution replied within two days that it would not initiate an investigation, as it was apparent that the excessive political names or names in power were involved. The Attorney General, who filed the complaint in the case of SIB Bank, was awarded even with the office of Minister in the government. On the other hand, let's say we have video surveillance for the workers behind the running tape, in Comet there's [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] cameras that monitor anyone who does one particular thing. [[...]] But when it comes to billions, the government is doing everything it can to prevent this control. And I ask you: Do you today, after two years when this claim has also been proved by this international study, have any more favourable opinions on this proposal that experts who are proposed by the opposition are involved in the supervisory councils where the government manages state shares and owns most of the property and thus provide indirect control?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. I ask that we respect the limits that apply to all equally. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you for the question, although it is already, I think the sixth time is the same. As usual, the issue is general, the charges are general and principled, and despite the two extraordinary meetings, we have not come up with any evidence that you should have in these specific cases that you have been talking about. On the other hand, hours and hours have explained what has happened in these specific suitable times. If we are talking about corruption first, then I would like to draw attention to what the Director of the Anti-Corruption Office has said and, last but not least, to the international organisation of Greece. Last time he made it clear here that the Slovenian Government has taken all the necessary systemic measures, the necessary systemic changes to fight corruption: the law, the resolution and also the individual segments in the other areas we have drawn up a system framework, which is also a good foundation internationally comparable to the fight against corruption. And these are very concrete proposals and very concrete steps in this direction. I think you also have a resolution in mind at the meeting, which will now begin to run. What is being said is very concrete, the Minister of Justice may say something about this, because she has already explained this several times, but you are making the same claims again and again. Even in these specific cases, the activities of the supervisory authorities are very clear and specific. You may feel that the supervisory authorities have not done enough on a case-by-case basis, but look at what they have actually done. I suggest that we say something about what has been done in the field of Orion, in the field of SIB, in the field of whatever you have already mentioned, including the Zbilski Gaj. Two sessions back you said there were hundreds of wages above a million. We went to look at the list and found that there were not hundreds of them, but there were about 100 of them, with about 70% of them in the field of health. We found out that there are municipalities among them, where your mayors are. We looked at how and in what case these wages were paid. And we found that they paid off correctly, even in the case of those municipalities where the mayors are from your client. I'm sorry you didn't ask me that question, so I couldn't say that. Even when we went to look at Zbilski Gaj, we found that they did not keep this number, which was listed here, and that the scope of the solved matters was greater. I therefore propose that we learn some more of these concrete facts and talk about the facts. Unfortunately, of course, no particular case can be held accountable. However, as far as this research is concerned, I am afraid that I will be running out of time, but I would like to say that it is indeed an assessment that the problem of trade in internal information is a market problem, which is also a problem that the Securities Market Agency has triggered. And as I am aware, the agency, which is an independent, supervisory institution, will go all the way in this case and will, of course, sanction trade on the basis of internal information.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u54	Madam Minister, you have a minute and a half, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u55	Things that came up again, for example, if we start with the SIB bank, even the 20 times repeated non-reality, that we founded the complaint cannot be sustained because you got it on the table and you saw that it was a magnetogram of a meeting that had no elements of the complaint and on the basis of which no operational work was possible. [[...]] If we're talking about the SIB bank, we have an indictment before the court, and we have a request for an investigation. But this could not be the case either, because in this country it means equality before the law that if there is no evidence that someone has committed a crime, we do not deal with it. And in the Oriom case, the thousands of activities that are taking place as the documents are reviewed cannot be seen at the moment. Nor is the way in which these criminal cases are handled in such a way that it can be accompanied by a national assembly. On the contrary. The law specifies the rules under which procedures are to be followed. And that must be respected. And the first step towards the rule of law is that each institution does its job and respect each other. In this National Assembly, I have repeatedly pointed out that criminal matters, which are referred to in part in the hearing, are partly before a court, are partly before the police. I think we all understand together that this is what this country has to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u56	You have half a minute if you want, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u57	I'd like to point out one more thing. If we are always following foreign experience, then let us look even a little bit at how such things are going in democratic countries with a long tradition. Criminal matters shall not be the subject of a hearing of the National Assembly. I will be pleased if our parties participate in the anti-corruption strategy that we have adopted. This country has adopted a law on the prevention of corruption, established a special independent body, and has all the institutions. And let them do their job. For the time being, as Minister, I see no basis for acting against anyone for something he has not done or done illegally, and it is necessary to bring proceedings against him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u58	Complementary to the question, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u59	Therefore, in the Chinese Parliament, where they do not have one, it may not address corruption and criminal matters. In all other civilised democratic countries, however, Parliament is dealing with resounding cases, which are also in the process of other bodies. That's all we've talked about and given evidence at the last session. The list I last showed contained over 100 salaries in the public sector, which were paid grossly over 1 million tolars. Hundreds of them are even gross over a million. All of this has been published in the Slovenian newspaper, and I am sorry that the Prime Minister did not look at it. I am also sorry that people are still being misled, and it is said that there were no elements in that magnetogram that could lead to prosecution in the case of the SIB bank. All those elements on which the investigation was then initiated when we requested an extraordinary meeting were also contained in that magnetogram. At least I can read it and get an opinion on why there was no prosecution for a year. However, I note that the Prime Minister has avoided the answer to the question. The question was very clear and concrete: After a year and a half, when practice has shown that we were right, it still insists that in the supervisory boards in companies where the majority state is the owner, only those appointed by the government, despite the fact that the government appoints directly or directly members of the administrations that manage these companies and that it already has a majority in these supervisory councils. It's just a matter of presence and control. I'm asking. Is the Prime Minister's opinion different today than it was at the beginning of last year?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u60	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. First, of course, back to these charges. They just don't. We can look at this list, it's publicly available, it's on the Internet, and we can look at these salaries. Therefore, there is no need to deceive. As I said, you can also see which are the municipalities where such salaries are paid, which you demagoguely claim are being paid, and which are being paid wrongly, and you can see to your mayors. Some are also Members. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't check it out. You are operating again with hundreds, because of course you want to mislead Slovenia. And that seems to have come to you in practice. On the other hand, I would like to say, repeatedly and repeatedly, that it does not hold what you say in relation to these specific cases. In these specific cases, activities have been initiated, activities are under way, carried out by the institutions responsible for this. Nor is it true that there are no criminal charges, nor are there any defendants. So. Both in these cases and in some other cases where some others are involved, which you do not want to mention, may be closer to you, but you may have double criteria. Of course, I think all these cases need to be cleared up. Nor do I object to the fact that there are cases in the National Assembly involving public function holders. Of course, it is right to discuss this in order to disclose such things, but evidence is needed to do so. You yourself have mentioned many times when something came to you, prove it, press charges against me, prove me guilty. If this applies to you, it is right that it also applies to others, those whom you accuse regularly, every day, and over and over again, and to a large extent quite much in mind. As far as what you're asking me is concerned. I said at the time, and I still say, as far as the supervisory councils are concerned, that in the supervisory boards, people must be of quality, that they must be professional and qualified. In this regard, it is also necessary to understand the supervisory councils and also the members of the supervisory councils that are now inside. The Supervisory Councils appoint different institutions, not just governments. In some cases, the para-national funds are also indirectly involved. As I know, the para-state funds have lists of people who are qualified, who are potentially able to sit in these supervisory councils, and then who are also assigned to these supervisory councils. I do not object to the addition of any lists of experts, quality people, and then people are elected from this circle to the supervisory councils. Certainly not by a political key. And here, of course, I mean both ways, both to the left, to the right or to the middle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u62	Okay. These were questions raised to the Prime Minister and answered them. We will now first hear the answer to those Members' questions, or to which Members and Members have not received an answer at their previous meeting. The question raised to Minister Dusan Kebru was the question of colleague Majda Zupan regarding the issue of nurses. Would you like to briefly summarize this question? Colleague Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you one more question. Mr. Minister of Health, when there has been a lot of hearing in health care that 80% of the equipment has already been written down, among other things, that 10,000 cancer patients each year and 5,000 of them need radiation, but only four of these machines are available, and one of them is 26 years old, and at least 10 and 12, after having more heart and blood vessels each year, only a few of them get help in nearby hospitals, while the others are sent to Ljubljana, where the waiting period is one year when new doctor's sentences are announced and health has a whole range of problems, we may also lose nurses who are so short of them. The fact is that our country still does not recognize the right status for nurses and that they still receive a shamefully low payment for their work. Slovenia has become a full member of the European Union, where it has already faced a serious problem of lack of nurses. That is why there is so much more fear that these deficits will try to solve by hiring new members, including from Slovenia. This will further exacerbate the issue of a lack of nurses, as they would need at least 1,500 right now. Both the status and wages of the countries that offer nurses are significantly better. Experts warn that by leaving our sisters abroad by 2020 there will be major problems in this area. There is already an association at European Union level that is supposed to be over the registration of nurses and thus take care of the authorisation for their work and supervision of the profession. National registers are expected to be linked to the European network, with Slovenia having little problems. Although the profession is supposed to have such a register with us, it is not implemented because it does not have public authority to lead. Mr. Secretary, your responsibility lies with you. Is this why Slovenia will have problems and how will you solve them? When and how will you begin to exercise professional oversight in this area? Are we really going to have to experience the mass departure of nurses abroad so that your ministry will rot and give nurses inside the health care center the town they're going to, and of course the proper payment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u64	Dr. Keber, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you. Madam Member, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. I hope I can answer in an optimistic tone. Maybe in separate parts. First of all, as far as the lack of nurses is concerned. Indeed, we have found this deficiency, the White Paper predicts, unfortunately, not 1,500, but 1,000 new nurses by 2010, or more precisely a quarter of these graduated nurses and three quarters of the medical technicians. We will not put an end to this, but we believe that we will make the problem much easier. Let me also mention that right now, under the new collective agreement and as a result of the public sector wage law, there is a prospect of improving the status of nurses and health technicians with their better, so-called horizontal comparability with the salaries of other public sector workers. This is how we believe that we are working for their equal position in the public sector. As far as fear is concerned, the departure of health workers, in this case nurses abroad. This fear, of course, exists. This is faced by many other countries. At least in the next few years, this fear is lower because this time other European countries of 15 have imposed restrictions. They fear too rapid migration of personnel, which of course Slovenia will use, has already implemented the same measures against these countries in accordance with the principles of reciprocity. Such movement of health personnel is possible only within the acceding countries, and in this case in Slovenia we expect an inflow rather than an outflow of health personnel. If I mention the register of nurses, I will briefly say that it is not required by the legislation or directive of the European Union but is required by our legislation. This means that we accept the fact that trade registers of particular importance or regulated profession registers are, of course, necessary to the end and that the law has already provided for their resolution in the form of the granting of powers to chambers or companies in 2001. With a view to halting this law in the Constitutional Court, we had to wait until December 2003. At the present time, if I shorten, there is a promising solution, as I hope so, and we also have such assurances in our discussions with the relevant institutions, so that we can quickly get the amendment of the existing law to this level, so that all health professions, and not only the profession of nurses and midwives, can get all the necessary grounds in the law to start granting powers. In a nutshell. I think that there is no obstacle if we follow an appropriate timetable, that by the fall of this year, nurses will in fact be given these powers and will begin to operate in accordance with the principle of chambers or associations with public powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u66	Completing the question, please, colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, but I would like an additional answer. The proposed Act amending the Health Act submitted by the Group of Members is not supported by the Government. Does this really mean that you do not want to solve this issue, because you would have made amendments and made certain things change or supplement them, or why you have not already tabled your proposal for a law before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u68	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u69	It is very difficult to explain all the timelines of our efforts to bring about the same initiative, but at this moment, when we have an initiative in Parliament and also at this meeting of the National Assembly by a Member of the Law, we believe that the basis is that, by appropriate amendment, by returning this law to the appropriate committee, with appropriate amendments, because this law unfortunately is problematic in solving the problem of one profession itself and leaving unresolved all other health professions. However, we have found that the amendment of this law can be done for all health professions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u70	You can't procedurally co-worker [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, you have the right to warn, of course. [[..]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u71	At the last meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the Minister of Health a question on questions. Since he was gone, I have completed my presentation of the question, quote from the magnetogram: I hope that the next time the answers will be answered. And now this next time is now, and I'm not on the list, so I'd like to ask if I can repeat and get an answer to a question that I didn't get an answer to at the previous meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u72	My friend Tuck. Maybe it's just an administrative misunderstanding. You are immediately written for colleague Pozsonchev. Your question concerns the Minister of Health. That's a new question. All right. Then I suggest that you repeat the question in a concise manner and Dr. Keber will gladly answer it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u73	Excuse me. I have asked the Minister a question regarding the closure of some outpatients on the ground. In fact, we know that a pediatric infirmary was closed in Novi Jarša without an apology. It was only under public pressure that it was reopened. It's about shutting down the pediatric department at Murski Sobota. The child counsellor in Montenegro and Mežica was closed and the people woke up again and demanded that she not close. Let me just sum up a quote by a gentleman in Montenegro who says, "It's bad for society to allow us to have an X-ray machine, which happened two years ago. Last year they shut down the gynecologist, this year's consulting room. We don't know what else to expect." That's what he says. And in Slovenia, in many places, people are kind of scared, worried, because ambulances are closing down, and accessibility is declining. I ask the Minister how, as the guardian of the public health service network, which, of course, imposes on him, not only legislation, but the national healthcare programme, sees all of this. What will he do to ensure accessibility to health services?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u74	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u75	The question is quite extensive. Allow me to answer it at least to the narrowest extent. The Member of Parliament is aware that the organisation of work in basic health care is not directly within the competence of the Ministry of Health. It is true, however, that it is our responsibility to control the health network. And in both cases, when it came to reducing accessibility by abolishing two outpatients, in Novi Jarša or in Montenegro in Koroška, we acted with our position and call on the competent authorities to eliminate this reduction. As far as I'm concerned, I quote you "the abolition of the pediatric department at Murski Sobota," so let me just say that I don't know anything about this. There's a pediatric ward in the hospital. But it's probably about reducing the number of beds. Let me mention that as long as a particular speciality exists in a particular hospital, it is a different way of working, which we also support, the transfer of hospital activities to outpatient activities and so on, we cannot call this termination of activities. Let me also take this opportunity to say that pediatricians remain in primary health care. Of course, pediatricians mean improved accessibility for children and they need to be brought closer at the level of the infirmary, not necessarily at the level of the hospital beds, if they are small wards, to the citizens who need it. As far as all other accessibility is concerned, honourable Member, we have shown in many ways, because health care in fact, your predecessor, Madam Member, has indicated how many elements, from recruitment, from equipment, from new finances, from the better use of existing money, we are doing all of this, we are incorporating this into a new reform. The results presented on the occasion of the interpolation say that accessibility is increasing, that some waiting periods are shrinking, and even if I go to basic health care, at this time and the capabilities that we have had, we have increased and did not reduce accessibility even in basic health care, what we are left with is what we call the white foxes on the map, where some doctors in basic care are overburdened and we know these cases, most often because of the obvious lack of attractiveness of these jobs for doctors staying in cities. In this area, it is also recommended that these places should be given new ways to attract doctors to areas where doctors do not come. Let me mention that we have invited over 100 new doctors this year in various areas of basic and specialist healthcare. At least this is how the state tries to speed up and increase the network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u76	Completing the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u77	As far as I'm concerned, I have to say that she didn't make sure that the infirmary didn't close in the future. And I can tell the public that. No place is provided by a doctor or will be replaced by a new doctor after his death or after his retirement. Of course, it's small remote places. The Medical Services Act 1999 required that the network be set up as a national programme as a project providing a specific area of speciality to a particular doctor. The Ministry didn't do that, and it obviously doesn't see the need to do that. Regarding the call for 100 new doctors, I must say that I have here a job invitation for a general doctor in the last magazine of Isis, namely 2 general doctors in Slovenska Bistrica, in the hospital Topolščica internist, health home Ptuj general medicine, hospital Trbovlje, health home of Vrhnnik general doctor, health home Kamnik, health home Domžale, pediatrician also somewhere. And this invitation was one month ago and is repeated in Isis because there is no new doctor. At the same time, we have an ad here where the county hospital Linz, East Tyrolska, in the Slovenian newspaper advertises a specialist in psychiatry as a doctor. And I must say that there is no restriction on employment in Austria, Germany and so on. They open the door wide after May 1st and accept every highly qualified healthcare worker. I therefore ask: How do you manage the need to plan to solve the problem of the network and to provide staff in this new situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u78	Minister Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u79	I would say that we all know, we know the problem of a smaller influx of doctors from an existing education system. During this transitional period, if we want to increase the number of doctors, and if this is not just a fig tree in our pocket, we need to count on doctors and in other cases also on healthcare professionals from elsewhere, as it does elsewhere in Europe. It is very interesting that some Western countries encourage the arrival of health workers and do not wonder whether doctors or other health workers in Slovenia are competent enough to make our knowledge-checking system, which is carried out by the Medical Chamber, more ruthless with the arrival of other health workers in our country, although only 100 kilometers east of us are unemployed, difficult to come. Nevertheless, we have clear cases where the directors of individual institutions are aware of this problem and by personal intervention bring the people they need into their institution, which is also right. Let me mention that the network exists, so primaryly inseparable, of course to that level when it obtained its political consensus. Let me remind you that precisely because of the differences in individual specialisations, the previous healthcare plan has not been adopted for 7 years, because in the end we had a double number of doctors' needs and it was simply not possible to reach agreement between professional and individual needs. I would like to say that we will strive to make use of the need for new doctors, that, like our doctors at the level, if you believe that we can prevent anything from happening to our citizens in the European Union at this moment, of course we cannot do that. We can regulate, like other countries regulate arrivals, we can regulate departures, but freedom is at individual level, so we will have to take measures that are not only dependent on the Ministry of Health but are also dependent on employers. After all, they depend on the public to decide whether a doctor is really that unacceptable from somewhere else. Let me remind you that in the last three or four years, when Slovenians reward doctors according to their quality and kindness, they are usually doctors who come to us from other countries. That is why I think we will have to cut down during this period because we Slovenians have started to travel across Europe, but I think that there are great fears in the health field - we both know that - and we do not expect a large migration of health workers by entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u80	Good. So now, I hope, if there is no further comment from the Chamber, we have answered those questions that have not been answered so far because of the absence of ministers and ministers. For today, I have only two apologies if the Presidency has not received new ones for Dr. Vlad Dimovski and Dr. Dimitri Ruple. They're both in Brussels. We're moving forward now. Colleague Maria Possonec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am asking Dr Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food the following question. How will taxation of farmers' subsidies under the Income Law make the situation of farmers worse, and how can this be corrected? We've really adopted a marriage, but if it turns out to be a bad marriage, then it needs to be fixed. The subsidy is not the income of farmers, but it is only a difference from the full price of crops. What will be the fate of small farmers? In my opinion, they are not well prepared for the heavy burdens ahead of their entry into the EU. For the illustration. In northeastern Slovenia, several thousand farmers are in danger. A few thousand farmers mean several thousand families, and we know what happens to them, because at these prices farmers do not have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u82	Please, Minister. You need to get involved, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u83	In fact, the question is difficult and could be addressed halfway to the Ministry of Finance. I was the only one who tried to get all the data. I hope to please you with your answer. It is true, as you say, that in Article 60 of the Income Act, the tax base and the cadastral income, which is determined by specific rules, for each production of suitable land in the territory of Slovenia, is attributed to the individual liable land for which it has the right of use and which is now prescribed under this law in accordance with tax rules. For us, it is more interesting to see Article 58 of the Law, which provides that income from basic agricultural and forestry activities is considered to be the potential market income from land production. Among these, according to the new law, among other things, you correctly state that income from agricultural policy measures, grants and the like is included. The tax base of potential income is still the cadastral income from agricultural land and forests processing. This will also take into account the income derived from the subsidies received under the agricultural policy measures on the income base of the new income in addition to the cadastral income. Above all, the EKO is no payment, these are direct payments to the surface. However, this scheme does not include subsidies for payments for organic farming, namely ECO two and ECO three by old of course, nor areas with limited factors, because they mean an equalisation of the conditions for management. There are also, of course, further exemptions and reliefs for certain other cases, such as natural disasters or, for example, restrictions on production by a decision. In fact, these matters still apply to tax exemptions. Of course, the whole process is not finished. In the procedure of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the identification of cadastral income, which will partially update the method for determining cadastral income, which will provide for a more objective definition of agricultural income during the transitional period, of course the possibility of determining negative cadastral income and of course the settlement, reduction of censorship, reorganisation of cadastral income and so on. All of this is supposed to be established. Thus, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, is preparing a new methodology for the identification of cadastral income, with which incomes from agricultural production will be more objectively determined on the basis of the new administrative records and achievements envisaged by the profession. To say that Slovenia is a special feature of this, unfortunately not. Similar arrangements have been adopted by the Income Act in some other EU countries. The tax liability in itself should not, as a rule, have a negative impact on the economic situation of farmers in the context of the envisaged changes in the cadastral income legislation in preparation. The economic situation will, of course, depend on the market situation of agriculture and forestry as it has been so far, now that we have become an integral part of European policy. I've also looked into who's actually going to get hurt. We find that they will be less affected by these farmers or will not be harmed at all because they have too little income, unfortunately, but that is the case. In particular, it will affect those who combine income from subsidies with income from regular employment in a service. And that's where it comes in categories where this burden is going to increase. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u84	Completing the question, colleague Maria.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your answer. I believe that, in general, the subsidy is a taxed subsidy. In 1992, we adopted a strategy for development in agriculture. Is the new methodology in line with this? Would it not be possible to re-adapt this strategy to the changes in agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u86	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u87	I certainly agree with you that the 1992 strategy is being renewed mainly in a new document, which will also be addressed by the government tomorrow. This is a development strategy for the country in which this segment of rural and agricultural development is also being processed. In the context of these debates that will take place, there is no doubt that we could also discuss the issues that you have actually drawn attention to.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much. A second question will now be raised by my colleague Tsukati to the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister of Health. I will also touch on the issue of the radiation apparatus that failed at the oncology institute and which has given the public some information about the problems that happen if it suddenly fails such an apparatus. This machine didn't suddenly fail, it was expected to fail because it's 20 years old. The life span of such an apparatus is 10 to 15 years. There are still many such appliances in Slovenia. Not only therapeutic, but also diagnostic. It's magnetic resonance, it's tomography, computer tomography and similar diagnostic equipment. These expensive appliances in no institution, in no hospital their price is included in the depreciation. As the former director of the clinical centre, you know for sure that the depreciation in 1992, 1993 was calculated in terms of covering maintenance costs and not purchasing new expensive appliances, as they have always been financed and procured from special funds or budget or any other. That is why I ask, because the aim of health policy is, however, to control these expensive appliances, because the failure of one apparatus can be a tragedy for many patients and also has control and review of the new needs of more modern appliances. I ask: Do you have any appliances in Slovenia that will need to be replaced within the next five years? What are the funds for this? Which new diagnostic and therapeutic devices, I'm just talking about very expensive appliances, are we going to reintroduce into the health system? For we in the National Assembly have been adopting a budget for several years and it is therefore necessary to know about these funds that will ensure the continuous work of the public health service.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u90	Minister Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Perhaps at first I should inform everyone else, not so much to tell you, that for various reasons from the past we have an extremely short amortization period or legal life: for laboratory equipment for five years, for all other equipment for four years. This is the main reason that today all or almost 80% of all equipment is administratively cancelled. But let me say that, with the exception of computers and perhaps some other equipment that has a really short life span, that as far as expensive equipment is concerned, it is simply not possible to think that when this time of administrative write-off is up, that it is no longer useful. I don't know if I'm allowed this comparison, but it's also about life-important things, and we're on planes that are 20 years old. Not just a government plane, but, of course, planes that citizens travel around the world with. But proper maintenance keeps these precious appliances alive. The apparatus you're talking about at the oncology institute is 16 years old. During this debate, it has been shown that appliances older than 20 years of age are also in use in neighbouring countries, and I do not want to say that this is still young. In fact, this equipment needs to be renewed. Here comes a new fact. Restoration of equipment is, of course, the responsibility of an individual health institution. These are legal, economic, independent entities which have the means to restore equipment. Let me mention in figures that last year's expected depreciation in Slovenian hospitals amounted to 7 billion and that out of this 5 billion were invested in the renovation of equipment, while the Ministry of Health with its 8 billion, which are specifically dedicated to new construction, could be much more than it has been in two years, although little, compared to 5 billion, earmarked for equipment, that is a billion 400 million. We have information on needs. This information is partly included in the law adopted by Members and binds us until 2008 and you know that this law is extremely demanding for investment in health care. We also have the needs of health institutions. For a little while. Last year, we did a survey between health institutions on the necessary restoration of equipment to be used by the Ministry of Health. All we got was the need for new walls, after investments in buildings, and no separate equipment regulations. I think so. Let me say that it seems to me that we have finally heard a statement from the Director, in which case the Director of the Clinical Centre, who is on the question of what they will do, because there is an apparatus, a magnetic resonance, just before they issue what they will do, he did not answer that they will call the Ministry, but he replied that they are obliged to renew it, if not otherwise, by renting the loan. It will be strictly necessary to separate in the future, with the Ministry of Health having its role in extended programmes, in the development or purchase of technology that has not been used in Slovenia so far, and therefore does not have a basis for calculating costs in the past period. Even in the event of a crisis, when it comes to, say, force majeure, human negligence, damage to valuable equipment, which we are aware of before the end, that in this case we are in a position to remedy. After all, floods at the oncology institute can also be seen as such an event. Member of the Commission, as you know, in our mandate, we have entrusted investment funds and, nevertheless, at the Ministry of Investment at the annual level of between 8 billion and 10 billion. There is at least that much money in health institutions and directors, as they are rapidly changing their way, they will need to know that, at the costs they receive, they must also cover the renewal of equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u92	Completing the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u93	The depreciation rate or the rate of depreciation in the price of health care is 5%, approximately. And of this institution, 20% of hospitals collect or broadcast to the Minister of Health, and then the Ministry allocates these funds for investment. These are the funds you're talking about. This is certainly the case, Mr Minister, that the Ministry is also the founder of hospitals, has a majority in the holy institutions and is responsible for cases where it does not follow the institution's needs and does not follow with regard to the purchase of equipment also to new technology, because 30 years old apparatus at the oncology institute, such as some, of course belongs more to the museum in Bistro pri Vrhnika than to the patient. Therefore, I have a feeling from the answer to the previous question and that in the case of a network you do not have clear data, you do not even have long-term plans to resolve the issue of the public health service network, that there is something like this in the area of the network of expensive equipment. You do not have an accurate view as the founder responsible for public institutions, hospitals, nor do you have a long-term plan to resolve the issue, which is re-emerging over and over again every year, as is the case with all these appliances that were once purchased.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u94	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u95	Your Honor! In fact, you are foreshadowing the human strength of a small team of ministries, even though we are not directly involved in the operation of hospitals in Slovenia. It is simply that it is the responsibility of each individual entity and that we, through the boards of institutions, try to regulate the operation. In this area, however, we can say that important moves are taking place for the better. We have achieved, within the mandate, a considerable increase in productivity in health institutions. We've reduced the lying age in hospitals by 30%, and we've caused a lot of other things, which means saving. By central regulation of purchases, which we have just started and is not about centralisation, but simply controlling how things are bought, we promise to save more than 20% in some cases of savings in purchases. We hope that we will never again have a story that we have openly opened up and made public in this public. We argue that, despite the fact that we believe that the health system needs new resources, there are reserves in it, and that we absolutely cannot only talk about the degree of depreciation being too low, especially for the most technologically developed institutions such as the oncological institute and the clinical centre, but that these institutions, as you know, are now instituting a fair allocation of money, transparent spending of money on individual patients, to open up opportunities for health institutions to be able to further save money through a more careful management of reconstruction, let me say, for the renewal of spent equipment and that the State and the Ministry of Health will indeed do what it has to do, extend capacity or introduce it after a completely new technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The question will now be raised by colleague Barovic to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me first of all, in the introduction, to make a little effort, to congratulate you on choosing yesterday's elections, to wish me a happy trip, maybe for the last time, I don't know when you'll be fully confirmed, given your word. I'm glad. Dear Minister of Education, it would be nice to at least reward the colleagues of your representative. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you for your congratulations, everyone who's been elected. It works for everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u99	Dear Mr. Minister of Education! Eight years ago, a law was passed, which we like to call "Zofi", a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which in Article 30 speaks of school administrations. One of these is vesicular. I think it's 1996. I'm sure. In 2002, it was supplemented by a law on amendments and additions, which determined when school administrations should be referred to, namely, 14 were supposed to be established. It's all good and it's all good. However, on the one hand, my hometown is Trbovlje; on the other hand, it is the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce public administration. There are some disagreements here that I don't understand. So let me ask you a question, Mr. Secretary. Public administration is expected to spread through the establishment of administrations. What will happen to the Ministry's direct employees, who have covered the area well so far? Second question. What will be the number of surplus workers in the Ministry if this is not the case if we are talking about marrying a public administration? Next question. Or will it be possible, given that we are staying, to support new jobs? How many are there? Next question. How much budget money would it take to make this law, the sofi, named 1996 reality?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u100	Please, Dr. Gaber. Again, thank you for your kindness, colleague Barovic. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Barovic correctly notes that in 1996 the law on the organisation and financing of education and education was adopted and that he provided for so-called school administrations in Article 30. We have been in the savings phase for more than eight years now when it comes to employment in the state administration, so we have not designed these school administrations so far, so we have not established them. In 2002, we made it possible by law to carry out a certain part of the work of school administrations, especially when it comes to directing children with special needs, including by the Education Institute and retaining the possibility that the Ministry should only carry out these activities, which should otherwise be carried out by school administrations and cover the whole spectrum from the management of the procedures for entry and removal from school and school registers, to the care of keeping records of over-expert workers, to the system of employment in this area. As it appears, we will not set up school administrations until 1 September 2005, because we do not have the resources necessary and the ministry will continue to do these works except where we already are, and for this year we allocate 120 million tolars, we have transferred this business to education units that function as some kind of school administration. This is the above-mentioned area of guidance for children with special needs. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Please, supplement the question, colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I am your answer, which I have listened to very carefully, Your Honourable Minister, very happy, very happy. On my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I assess that the coherence of government policy, the restriction of public administration and the work of the Ministry in this area is good. But the law is a law that provides for 14 administrations, and one of them is a trebular one. We have to ask because I'm being asked by people in the Bellies. That's right, and that's how it's gonna be. And so I asked you, if I understood you correctly, we're on the same page, and also the date after the amendment law, adopted in 2000, will not hold. Okay, it won't, but it won't apply as of September 1st, 2005. I'm not going to ask any more questions, but just this: Does it mean that you will be in the ministry, say, as good or at least as good as you've been working for Trbovlje so far, or are they just among those you mentioned, exceptions or something will change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u104	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you. Our staff and staff will continue to make efforts to carry out business in the field of education and education, unfortunately centralised in this respect, as mentioned earlier. Of course, we will try to ensure that the Rippers are not harmed in any way. I'm counting on us to do this job successfully. Let me just say that in one part of this administration we started to establish in the part that I mentioned earlier. Looks like it's gonna be like this for a while. It would probably also be logical, reasonable, that a second form would be decided in the event of the formation of the provinces and an important part of the powers and obligations being transferred to the provinces. At that time, these school administrations would make sense as part of the administrative authorities of the province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on with the questions. The following will be joined by colleague Valentin Pohorec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, President. My question is to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik. In order to build it, however, I have a citizens' initiative from the Kungota municipality, which I am somehow also covering through my area of operation. Slovenia became a full member of the European Union a month and a half ago. The Accession Treaty has committed itself to respect four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of capital, goods, people and services. And now, of course, we're on it. After May 1st this year, the first purchases of agricultural land and facilities in border areas with Austria were made by buyers of neighbouring countries or, say, the Republic of Austria, members of the European Union. They have the same purchase right as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, except for the exceptions provided for by the Agricultural Lands Act. Because of this, it comes from the border population, and I can specifically mention the example of the municipality of Kungota, to the discomfort and fear, because the financially stronger, natural and legal persons of neighbouring Austria express a great interest in the purchase of agricultural land as well as the facilities on it. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: In view of our past historical experience, can the country protect its national interest in agriculture by making the most of its pre-emptive right under the law of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia? I also want to know: With what financial mechanisms, say, will the state create the right conditions for our citizens to be financially equivalent to other entities in this market? I ask for an answer because the question has been raised recently, and it will probably continue to be up to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u108	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Pohorec. I'll just try to answer, even though I see the legislation, you know what you're doing. As you have already stated, agricultural land trafficking is governed by the Agricultural Lands Act, which, of course, also sets out in Chapter 9, who can exercise the preliminary right. In terms of agricultural transport, it is important to stress that the financial situation of the buyer in this context is not always the most important. The sale process is laid down in the law and is taking place, as is already known, so that the owner of the agricultural land must hand over the offer to the administrative unit. This one hangs 30 days on a billboard. Within this time limit, anyone wishing to purchase this land must give a written statement and a change of offer. Now, Article 23 of the Law defines what is most important to me as pre-emptive beneficiaries in the following order, as follows: a co-owner whose land he owns, a land he owns, a land he sells; a land buyer who is another farmer; an agricultural organisation or an independent entrepreneur, an individual who owns a land or a farm for agricultural or forestry activities; and, of course, only in the sixth place is the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. It is further specified that, in the case of equal conditions between farmers classified in the same place in accordance with the preceding paragraph, the right to purchase shall be determined again in the second order. This is, however, the priority of a farmer whose agricultural activity is the only or principal activity, the farmer who processes the land himself, or the farmer determined by the seller, unless it concerns the sale of agricultural land, forest or farm, which is indeed the property of the country and must be determined by the seller on the basis of the method of public auction. And, of course, then the seller can sell such agricultural land to anyone only if none of the pre-emptive beneficiaries exercises the pre-emptive right. The fact is, as you stated, that citizens of neighbouring countries have the right to purchase agricultural land and other properties after 1 May under the conditions applicable to Slovenian citizens. The only restriction is the Agricultural Lands Act, which provides for this priority right to purchase. Among those that are also listed is the agricultural land fund and I must say that the agricultural land fund has so far been purchasing agricultural land and forests mainly in terms of rounding larger complexes into single land or forest complexes, but of course it is limited by resources. In 2004, 800 million are available, and in 2005, as my colleagues have taught me, there is no provision for these funds. Now I am aware of the situation that arises, and we are not surprised, my personal opinion is that, first of all, in Slovenia, not the most expensive but the cheapest land will be sold out, even for the reasons it introduces, let's say, if you want, European agricultural policy and in this way you can actually create certain options. Now, more than I have told you, I cannot tell you, except that it is possible that at the Ministry we will examine what is happening in these areas and somehow try to prepare a specific strategy on this basis and offer it to the government, because it is not too much to point out that Slovenia has 7 years after accession, that is to say, by 1.5.2011, in the event of certain disruptions in the real estate market, such as rising prices or lack of real estate for the residence of our citizens, a safeguard clause. This safeguard clause contains an accession contract signed in Athens in 2003, which in the fourth section on the free movement of capital gives the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the real estate market the possibility to apply the safeguard clause referred to in Article 37 of the Act on the conditions of accession of the Republic of Slovenia and the Treaties on which the European Union is founded within a period of not more than 7 years from the date of accession, and on the basis of such a safeguard clause, it may initiate market protection procedures with the European Commission, which may also mean the temporary closure of the real estate market for the purchase or acquisition of real estate by citizens of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u110	My friend Pohorec wants to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much for this answer, which is clear to me, because before I put the question together, I read it again and I know it. Nor do I think we should close, prevent - in this sense. But because I have information for this small area of a small municipality, what is currently being sold to foreigners, 7 farms that could be called "Slovenian fires" at the very state border, which have passed the most difficult times of pressure into our space. Now we're actually going to sell them to these people because our people don't have the money - without having the interest, they don't have the purchasing power. Is it possible here in your strategy, in your policy to change anything? Provide long-term, non-interest loans or at least favourable loans? Or perhaps even grants, which we have given in the past for the construction of guest houses and I do not know what facilities, but today to keep this piece of Slovenian land at the very border. That's what I'm worried about. Even the trust sells to a foreigner. I have a case here that has no interest in him buying it. And of course, then it's up to the upstairs neighbor and he'll buy it. And that's how it slowly penetrates our Slovenian space. That's worrying. And this was discussed not long ago by the Kungota Economics Committee and asked me to ask the question: Can anything be changed in the policy of your ministry and government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u112	Minister, supplement the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u113	We must be aware that with May 1st, the way in which I worked in the Ministry of Agriculture has changed, that the policy is actually taken over by the European Union, that we must respect it and that there is something that can be done under these mechanisms. In addition, there are different forms of aid and support also in European agricultural policy measures and each case should be assessed and what are the options for support in these cases when it comes to the cases you are referring to. But I'm afraid we're going to face it. The second option is, of course, to have a thorough discussion, and that is why I said that we will examine matters and that in cases that you have also mentioned, there will probably be more of them, especially on areas that will be cheap to actually submit to the government some proposals that would be worth discussing and, of course, in this case of protection, also take into account. There's something more difficult to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u114	Good. That was the answer to my colleague Pohorca's question. Comrade Alojz Sok will now ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Honourable Minister and Ministers, fellow Members and Members. Master of Environment and Space, I would like to ask a brief question, namely: I'm curious, but not just me, especially the savers, what will be the fate of the housing savings scheme? This year, a savings scheme is released, according to media data, for 20,000 savers. A survey of 5,000 savers showed that the majority of those who have saved are planning to use savings to solve the housing problem. According to the austerity scheme, all those who kept the money in this way also received one meal a year from the State budget, which means that we have made a huge amount of State resources available for this purpose. At this point, if this data is true, I read it in the media, it's 97 billion saved Slovenian tolars. At current prices, which are increasing and have increased by 20% to 30% in the last two years, savers could buy - of course this is different from size and so on, but if we look at some average Slovenian standard - between 6 and 7,000 apartments, of course, some will also build, but in reality only a few 100 new and old apartments are offered. There is no housing on one side and prices are rising on the other. Despite the fact that Mr Edward Owen, director of the Housing Fund, and also Mr Minister, when we adopted the Housing Act, ensured that prices would not increase and that housing would be sufficient, there would be insufficient housing and increased demand, of course, for prices. I hope that you will not answer me, Mr Minister, that my speech and the warning about price increases also have an impact on this - on a similar occasion Mr Prime Minister said that talking about inflation is encouraging inflation. It seems that the project, which some have named the LDS housing project, will not succeed and that the savings will end in other areas instead of in the housing scheme. Mr. Owen, Director of the Housing Fund, is leaving and will [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 'cause it could turn into someone else. Let me just ask you one last question: What can you say, Mr. Minister, to the house savers, how will they get to their homes and within what time frame and at what price? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Janez the Ripper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. I don't think there's anything here to encourage any fear of losing any public funds. The premium paid from the State budget shall be returned to the State budget if the funds are not or if the saver does not take the housing loan. The fact is that since this first round of savers in the national housing savings scheme - about 22,000 of them were the first year in this scheme, now almost 83,000 of them - intends, according to surveys by the housing fund, to really take advantage of the possibility of renting a favourable housing loan. However, it will go beyond buying an apartment or a house, this response was decided by about 47% of respondents, including housing or houses, a little less than 30% of respondents intend to do so, to adapt the apartments and to repay the existing loan. All of this affects the half-life of pressure on the housing market for a longer period. The poor half of the savers, 48% of them, save additionally in the long term, which means an additional stage in providing the necessary funds before the individual shows up with his offer on the housing market. The saver in the scheme is not an immediate buyer of an apartment, it does not show an equation, and after all, the time limit for drawing on the loan is one year after the end of this engagement or this contract with the bank. In addition, in 2001 we took an active approach in the supervisory board of the Housing Fund, which I manage, to define the new role of the Housing Fund. The Housing Fund has previously helped tens of thousands of Slovenians reach their apartments with credit, and since 2001 we have been preparing intensively for the housing fund to provide additional housing. To this end, of course, we have engaged the funds of the Housing Fund. And the housing fund put an anchor on the housing market with its offer. This anchor, in Ljubljana, for example, is 1,300 euros per square meter, endures and, of course, also the lower cost of buying apartments for all those who intended to buy the apartment elsewhere, not from the housing fund. Of course, without exception, the housing fund itself provides housing at such a price. And despite being given at such a price, demand is not as much as supply. Because we know that the housing fund intends to offer around 800 more apartments in the centre of Ljubljana in the coming months, of course at this same price, we are confident that this will be a sufficient price anchor so that price increases should not occur. Individual locations in Ljubljana, as well as elsewhere, especially on the coast and in Gorenjska, are, of course, being irritated and will be irritated, but these are more luxurious or elite locations. The Housing Fund is not here to price even in elite locations, it is here to try to make the housing offer available to the maximum extent possible for as many people as possible who are included in the national housing savings scheme. I would like to point out that you have already asked me about the numbers that the housing fund was built between 1991 and 2000 with the help of the municipalities of 9575 dwellings, whose investors were legal persons, and between 2001 and 2003, together some over 3,000 apartments. This construction also includes, of course, the construction of dwellings obtained through loans from the Housing Fund to non-profit housing organisations. For this reason, I believe that there should be no more serious shocks in the end of the first national housing savings scheme, because all these years we have been preparing ourselves intensively for this event and in my opinion we have been well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u119	Just one thing. I think the Minister has given me a satisfactory answer, and I hope that this will come true. When adopting tax legislation, the proposal of the opposition from New Slovenia was in this direction that interest on mortgage loans would be included in the tax relief. Of course, this was not then accepted. Today, you say that those in this first austerity scheme are 20,000 who would not take credit with the relevant bank in order to recover the funds it has received from the budget for this purpose. And I wonder how this would actually be realistic in a situation where another bank, for example, offered him a more favourable loan than a bank where he committed himself to renting credit with a savings contract? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u121	Well, first of all, in the Income Act you have provisions that consider interest on housing credit to be a special two percent relief. But as for your other question, I think the answer is perfectly simple. If a saver in a national housing savings scheme finds a more favourable credit with another bank, and some of the banks are now trying to be more competitive, he will, of course, take this credit. While the right to receive a favourable loan from the bank in which he played a nutritional role, he will not benefit. However, the fact is that the bank, and this does not fall on the back of the saver, had to pay back the savings premium because it would not take a favourable housing loan from the bank. In this way, we will all be pleased: a saver, a country, and finally a bank, which will try to offer longer-term housing credit with a more competitive offer. Of course, the bank in which it has played a nutritional role so far will have to return the one-month premium to the state budget. However, despite this, it had a long-term nutritional role all these years, which had a significant impact on its liquidity and long-term liquidity, so I think the entire project of the national housing savings scheme has been a very successful project that is still running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will ask the Minister of Finance the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. Small, medium and micro enterprises are an important part of the Slovenian economy, especially for this part of the economy, the macroeconomic environment affected by the country is important. Of course, the liquidity and solvency of partners with which it operates is also important for growth and development and, last but not least, for the survival of such companies, which can only be verified by each individual undertaking.The Ministry and the local community are also a major contracting authority on the market and through public procurement. Major public tenders, however, tend to be successful by large companies, while medium and small enterprises are found as subcontractors. And now, a concrete example from the area of the Savini statistical region, which is many, I will avoid direct names for now. A large construction company, which I will mark with V, on the invitation to tender, acquires a contract, one of the subcontractors, I will mark with E, and with this company enters into a contract and, in accordance with the contract, implements its part of the obligation, there will, of course, be a problem in payment. The Ministry, I will mark it with the S, in this case settles its obligations, while many companies do not fully fulfil their obligations. Some are still liable up to 500 days ago, even though the contract deadline is 90 days. This is, of course, a typical example of the payment non-discipline and interest-free lending of company V by E. Despite the bonding law of the company's financial transaction law, in addition to the purchase of correspondence and telephone calls to a small company, there remains only a judicial path with a proposal for enforcement, which is long, expensive and excruciating. On many occasions, however, the question is whether the epilogue will wait for this small or medium-sized enterprise not to talk about the consequences for workers, other business partners, etc., which has been repeatedly exposed. Payment discipline means the respect and timely fulfilment of contractual obligations and one of the main factors in the performance and effectiveness of individual undertakings. In the field of public procurement, public procurement can only be awarded to tenderers who show that all outstanding liabilities are settled, in accordance with the Financial Regulation to the budgetary consumer, and I am therefore interested in the following: What is the coordination between individual public procurement providers, either between local communities or between individual ministries, in terms of the exclusion of those companies that apply for these tenders and also succeed, irrespective of the fact that there are no obligations settled between other partners in the chain from past public tenders under this Title? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. With regard to the direct question, although I am aware of this problem, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, as I have already said - I have answered one question that they are in a subordinate situation and therefore the Financial Business Act has been adopted to improve their situation. If we go directly to the question of how we ensure in public procurement that those who receive a contract actually have all their settlement obligations, we divide the contracting entities into those who are large contracting entities over 50 million and those who are smaller bidders. Those who are smaller tenderers shall be deemed to make their own declaration in relation to the fulfilment of the conditions for participation in public procurement and, of course, in these conditions, its obligations are also settled. This is about your own statement. The contracting authority may verify its own statement, the so-called budget user. To the extent that these conditions are not met, for larger offers, it is worth more than 50 million tolars, and the contracting authorities must, within 30 days of the entry into force - well, leave this to the tendering conditions - introduce additional provisions which exclude as incompetent operators all operators which do not show a timely settlement of their obligations to suppliers of goods, subcontractors and co-operaters by submitting a report to the authorising auditor. However, this must be reviewed by the authorising auditor as to whether all the obligations have been settled and this audit report must not be more than 15 days old. So, we have direct written evidence, so to speak, of an official charter for this competent person. But it can still not be enough. The key logic of the system is that suppliers monitor each other and that when they consider that someone has received a public contract they do not fulfil the conditions, they may initiate an audit procedure for this contract. Such initiations of audit procedures have been somewhat and practically in all cases, according to my information, calls have been cancelled and repeated. So if we look at what kind of coordination - essentially the basic logic is that there is control between the providers themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Does Mr. Diaci want it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thanks for the answer. It sounds very nice, but in practice it is completely different. In fact, I did not mention the specific names of the companies, because, in fact, this makes no sense, but the system itself in this area, Mr Minister, does not work. Also, I'm going to say mutual control between the providers obviously doesn't work, because either it's actually some kind of cartel deal or something else, or I can't figure it out, but I'm interested in something else. Can you tell me that a company that has not fulfilled all its obligations, for example, to a subcontractor, has not obtained an invitation to tender on another invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u128	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u129	I agree with you that there's a certain space in here. Indeed, someone must have fulfilled all his obligations to those I have counted at the moment when he makes his offer. Such obligations may in fact not be settled during the period preceding or after that period. And this is the case you have. However, in such cases, it is extremely difficult because you cannot send an audit and supervise it at any time. In other countries, too, they get gloomy. Therefore, the logic of this, which, of course, is difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises all over the world to use, is that small and medium-sized enterprises should apply the provisions of bankruptcy law, compulsory settlement, which, of course, is a long-term issue if these companies survive the disproportionate aspect.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Specially hailed Minister of Transport, which I am addressing with a question. I am not asking the question for the first time, but it is probably the last time in this term, and for the first time, of course, you, Mr Minister. The question is related to the state road Arja Vas - Velenje and then to the border of Koroška and Austria. I know the predictions, and I know the effort to build a fast road in a few years to connect the Coroner, the Austrian border to the highway cross somewhere near Schentrupert, and this road is supposed to go, a fast road west of Velenje. But it's a project that won't be here for a while. At this time, we face security problems on the existing road. One of the basic problems I have also warned about is getting off the highway in Arja village, which is impenetrable and quite dangerous. It is made in the form of a so-called diamond. We expect this connection to be redesigned, updated and made in the so-called child form. This, of course, is rightly expected given the number of those involved and who are getting out of traffic there, compared to the other crossings on this highway. At the same time, this state road is becoming a major obstacle to the economy, for further development. And it will be necessary to do something on an existing road by the time a fast road is built; to ensure greater safety on an existing road, even in a way that we will have to ensure safe passage of pedestrians across the road in certain places. Two of these are very large or two such points are in Vinsko Gora and in the Shalek region of Velenje. Given that this topic is new to you and that you are a new minister in this area, I am sure that this is not your last mandate, which is why I am interested in your view and your plans to resolve this road problem between Arya village and Velenje and that I am not selfish, even on the Koroška and against the Austrian border, which my colleagues and colleagues are certainly working towards in the field of Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic, I, too, would like this to be my first and last answer, and I will do my best to resolve this problem. So, as it is known, it is a section that was eventually involved with great pain in the national programme for the construction of motorways, which you adopted at the end of February, and we have already proven in this way that the Ministry does not care what is happening here. That it is a vitally sensitive area of the integration of the Slovenian and Austrian parts of Koroška and, lastly, the Shaleska Valley then with the motorway Maribor-Celja and Ljubljana. We are also aware that the road on certain sections is in very poor condition and very burdensome. As soon as the national programme was adopted, the Ministry began to prepare the necessary documentation and expertise to submit an initiative to initiate the process of putting the route into space. We expect this initiative to go to the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy in July. Then it begins, as you know, the long-term adoption of the site plan and the final regulation, somewhere the shortest possible time, as it now shows, is three to four years, of course with great hope that there will be no such problems as we now have in Trebnje or Radovljica. In every way, we will try to keep this deadline as short as possible. With regard to the diamond connection, which, of course, has nothing to do with precious stones, it is only possible, if I can easily describe it, for some kind of kara that is placed on a traffic cross, but we experts say that more is a dilemma, which is the best solution: either a half-baked child or a trumpet diamond. I have pictures here, if anyone would like to see it later, because I've been able to teach myself what these complicated expressions are. They said that at that moment this diamond solution was the best that was also often used in our country. It is true, however, that we are carrying out analyses that at present prove that this part does not represent a so-called black point. However, if the study shows that there are problems, Dars will, of course, have to examine other alternative solutions, but clearly, on the basis of professional arguments. About the walkway. This is where we apparently correctly assumed that it was the village of Salek and the passage through the G1-4. The proposal for marking has been considered and we have decided on a small number of pedestrians to set traffic signs to limit speed. And a similar situation has also occurred in the area of connection for the wine mountain, where so far, at least the road director has not received a proposal to mark the transition. So much, perhaps, about what doesn't please you so much. The good news is that a programme for improving traffic safety throughout the Vič-Arj area will be developed to address you and the special dangerous cities in the budget as a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, complete your response, please. Mr. Secretary, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u135	It's not so much about complementing the question as it is about commenting. Of course, I agree with the Minister that the diamond connection is the one most suitable for space needs space because it occupys the smallest space. I can also agree that this connection is not a black point in terms of the number of accidents and of course the victims in this area. But it's dangerous because it's impenetrable and causes, if nothing else, it stops. And it's not only a problem that the matter could be potentially dangerous, but it makes normal traffic impossible. Therefore, our additional proposal is to study this and to make sure that, regardless of the procedures related to the fast road, this part of the intersection or exit and entry from the highway is specifically regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u137	Actually, I have nothing to add, too, it is clear that I will take your initiative again. The fact is that the predominant reason for choosing the diamond connection was space. It's more suitable for space. As soon as it turns out that there is really no transparency to represent a black point, then clearly, we will have to react.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I ask the Honourable Minister for Home Affairs: How do you intend to force the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respect the constitutional principle of legality and to apply consistently the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in visa procedures? The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Virant, pointed out that diplomats are also obliged to follow the procedural rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act when deciding in visa procedures, and the foreign ministry has publicly objected to this, despite the fact that this position has also been supported by your Office for Administrative Home Affairs and the Government's Office for Law. Article 63 of the Aliens Act makes it clear and leaves no other interpretation. I am surprised that you have tolerated such injustice at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for more than two years and that your administrative inspection has not acted against those responsible. The non-recognition of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in visa procedures allows for illegal interference of policy in visa procedures, since Article 12 of the General Administrative Procedure Act explicitly prohibits such conduct. Dear Minister: Have you informed the other members and the Prime Minister of the conduct of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or of the Minister responsible? In this regard, how will the government act, or will the Prime Minister determine the responsibility of the foreign ministry and these allegations, identify these violations or what sanctions might be?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This question, which was addressed to me by my colleague Štemberger, is slightly beyond my purview. He's asking me what the Prime Minister will do, what the government will do. This question should probably be addressed to them. But I can tell you the following. In our administrative and constitutional system, one ministry cannot force another ministry to do anything or to abandon it. Each ministry and each minister shall be responsible to the Government and Parliament to act lawfully, so that the proceedings at its Ministry are legal. Thus, in the case referred to by you, the issuing of visas to the foreign ministry is responsible for its procedures. Nor will it be held that so far any irregularities have been identified in the foreign ministry or in any legal situation that you are talking about, honourable Member. No inspection report has been issued or initiated in this regard to enable the court to determine whether it is right or wrong. Even in this case, it is not so much a question of whether or not the General Administrative Procedure Act applies to visa procedures. I join myself in the opinion that it is being used, and I agree with you that there are not many professional doubts here. It's another key question. It is a matter of whether, within the application of the general administrative procedure, the state has a so-called discretionary right in visa procedures. Whether or not the application of the general administrative procedure is excluded by a discretionary right of the State. I submit that there is no exclusion and that the general administrative procedure is aware of the discretionary right of the State to decide in visa matters. This was not the case, however, for the Supreme Court, its administrative department, which ruled on this case in 1999. If you allow me to short-circuit this decision, the court says: "For issuing visas, the consulates of the Republic of Slovenia are competent abroad, which are independent in their work and their work is not multi-stage, so no regulation provides for a body to resolve complaints against their work." From here on it is crucial: "The issuance of visas is a sovereign act of the State and has no administrative character, as there is no legal right of foreigners to enter a foreign country, so there is no legal remedy in the administrative procedure and the administrative dispute. Therefore, it is also proposed that the action be dismissed in this case. The relationship between the country and foreigners with regard to visas is governed mainly by the Aliens Act, which in its provisions does not give foreigners the right to issue a work visa and thus to enter the country, but is a sovereign act of the State" and so on. In short, the court in this explanation explicitly takes the view that the State has the right to decide discreetly whether or not to issue a visa to an individual, and that when a person applies for a visa, he does not ask for something that is his or her right, but asks for a permit that is decided by the State. Such a position has also been taken by the Law Service in its position of 18.7.2002, where, at the request of the Foreign Ministry, in the case that you probably have in mind, I quote: "The expression used in explanation by the Supreme Court, namely in issuing visas, is a sovereign act of the State, but not to decide what right, in our opinion, is perfectly correct. The visa allowing its holder to enter the country for a certain period of time is not a decision on the right but a sovereign decision of the State or its competent authority." From all of this, both in case law and in the view of the legislative service of the Government, we can conclude that the discretionary right of the State is not excluded by the application of the general administrative procedure and that there is no reason for doubt as to the legality of the activity of the foreign ministry in issuing visas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec will raise the question to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister and, of course, other ministers and representatives of the government. The question is addressed to both the Minister of Justice, Mrs Cerarjev, and the Minister of the Interior. But it is mainly about solving the so-called Roma problem in our country. In fact, this year we have witnessed a great deal of excessions: on May 4th there was a conflict between the Roma in the village of Črešnjevci; so on May 17th we faced the shooting of villagers in the village of Krka in Dolenjska; then there was also a protest meeting on May 27th before the government palace and also repeated petitions of the lower, Posavska and Belokran mayors to the country, with the goal of starting the resolution of the so-called accumulated Roma problem. In particular, it is a question, as some Downland mayors have described in a graphic way, that some people in nearby Roma settlements are literally threatened even by their lives, as is their property, of course. Of course, the looting of their property is even common in some parts. This is also unacceptable in terms of ensuring the security of constitutional rights for these people. I therefore ask, first of all, the Minister of the Interior: What measures will be taken by the Ministry of the Interior to ensure greater security for people living in or near Roma communities. Then the question for the Minister of Justice, who also leads the government group to address this issue: Has the Government Commission already checked the actual situation, analysis of Roma settlements and identified measures for specific areas that are, of course, necessary? In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to the resolution of such a nominal financial issue to the municipalities facing this so-called issue, which we have already faced here in the National Assembly, even when we are adopting the budget. In particular: Will the government draw up a special law that would systematically regulate and determine both the rights and duties of Roma in the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister of Justice, Mrs. Zdenka Cerar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much for the question, Member. As President of the Commission for the Protection of the Roma Community, which is a government commission, I am aware of the events of 4 May, which are of a criminal nature and are being dealt with by the police, the prosecution and the court, within the framework of classical measures. However, these events had a consequence, namely, a group of mayors from Bela Krajina and Dolenjska handed over their petition to the government, which was on 27 May. I accepted the protestors myself at the government palace, and we had a conversation with them, listened to them, and accepted their wishes and problems. The following day, the Nationality Office had already convened a meeting with representatives of these mayors, which I had also personally attended in order to determine in detail where the problems were and what kinds of problems were. Representatives of the police and representatives of the inspection were also present at this meeting. This was a conversation where we learned that these problems are truly very diverse. On the one hand, it is a feeling that citizens do not have security both on the one hand and on the other. It is a feeling that they are not respected either, that there is no dialogue in between, and that the state should do more than it has done so far. In financial and other personal terms, initiate certain measures. Once again, the mayors called for a consultation in Dolenjska, attended by Dr Bohinc - he himself will tell us what topics they discussed. I just want to say that in this personal conversation we have really opened up a lot of problems. I presented this issue to the government at the meeting and the result was that the Secretary-General of the Government had sent an invitation to all ministries to review how they were dealing with individual Roma issues, how they were taking into account the sectoral legislation that was divided into individual ministerial departments, and whether they considered it necessary to introduce certain government measures in a financial or other context. This has been done recently and we expect an answer from the Ministry. On 8.6.2004, the Nationality Office in Trebnje held a meeting with the mayors of Lower Lower, Belokran, Posavska and Prekmursk municipalities in order to pass on their experience in areas that were much better organised than in Dolenj and Belokranj. The conversation was very lively. It was pointed out, on the one hand, that such actions as those in Prekmur were also possible in Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, on the other hand, it was also concluded that there might be no need for knowledge, that there was also a need for dialogue between the Roma and the other local communities, which made it clear that the attempt was good, that it would have to be repeated and that the matter would have to be reversed so that the Belarusian and Lower Mayor would go to see the situation in Prekmurje. No word can replace a picture that someone sees live. Why am I stressing this? Because in the meantime the government has been considering its programme so-called 'interect 3A'. Here you can see how the suburban mayors have managed to obtain from the country funds to improve infrastructure in Roma settlements, both for roads both for the pipeline and for electricity; in short, for all those urgent problems that we will have to solve everywhere. Because I personally believe that our country is capable of providing basic living conditions and is obliged to do so, and will then be able to impose those requirements that are now being appealed to by other citizens of local communities who, in particular, are protesting that large numbers of families are being compensated without fulfilling their obligations, so without having to go to school, children are getting support for this. In the short term, there will be a meeting of the Commission, at which will be the central point of information on the situation of Roma in Slovenia and the review of Roma settlements. This is an action that is taking place and is just before the end. The entire population and typical Roma settlements will be in front of the office through the institute. In short, on this basis, I have said, the Commission will adopt its conclusions and I can only ensure that we have deepened our commitment to dialogue and that there is also readiness on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, which has the power and competence to ensure personal security.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I would like to invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please. Madam Secretary, you can turn off the microphone, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. Of course, the Roma issue does not have only security aspects, but it also has security aspects and it is right to deal with this issue more seriously. I would like to say that since 2001, the police have two documents in this regard, namely, the 2001 General Police Administration has adopted guidelines for the work of the chief of police in the area of Roma issues. In 2002 a reminder was also prepared for the work of police officers in identifying the safety event with the elements of intolerance. After recent conflicts of this kind, I have met with the mayors of the municipalities who deal with this issue and have shaken the security aspects of these issues, as well as with the leadership of the New Town Police Administration, where they have briefed me on how the Home Affairs Minister's guidelines in this regard are being implemented. I gave these guidelines specifically to the police on 26.5.2004 to resolve the security issue. These are orientations to ensure the security of people and property in areas with multiple ethnic communities where security problems occur. The essence of these guidelines, as short as possible, is that police must ensure the security of people and property by deploying police officers when major security problems occur in a multi-ethnic area with appropriate organisation of work. In order to carry out this task, the police must ensure a sufficient number of police officers to carry out appropriate temporary deployments where necessary. These deployments, let me say, have also been made or have begun to be implemented and ensure an increased presence of additional patrols in these areas. The aim of these measures is to increase general safety among the inhabitants of these communities. Let me say that the police understand their duty in the way that in these communities where conflicts accumulate, security needs to be ensured for the people. The fact is, I was particularly informed of the fact that the number of assets in these environments is increasing statistically, that they are largely petty thefts and that increased police activity was therefore needed. Let me just say that this isn't the only activity we've already triggered. The Minister of Justice and I have formed a joint expert group to study, which laws or other regulations need to be amended for greater efficiency in managing these issues and for greater efficiency in providing security in particular. Some of these rules, which are relevant, will certainly need to be supplemented or amended, of course, within the framework of the entire programme prepared by the Government in this regard in a manner, as stated by the Minister, who will renovate the programme adopted by the Government in 1995 in this area and which has been our guide to work so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I only hope that these security measures, which you have just mentioned, will actually help to ensure greater security in these areas. But I do have a supplementary question for the Minister. In fact, with regard to the preparation of an appropriate analysis or a complement to the solution, as already stated by the Minister of the Interior in 1995. I want to know: Did the Government also set any deadlines for the adoption of these decisions to certain departments, which are also responsible for monitoring the Roma problem, to check the adequacy of their regulations and the possibility of their changes? It is probably also important for each of these conclusions to have deadlines if it is also to take a serious approach to solving this problem. I would also ask if there is any answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u151	It is true that some of the more visited mayors from areas where Roma communities have already received financial resources from the government, knew how to say "turn". But some others, I don't know, maybe because they're new in this area or for what other reasons they didn't do it, even though they had the same opportunities. The first task is to raise awareness of these local factors of their potential. I believe that this must be done in the field of government and commission. The deadline you want to know after the date is not set, but it is set as soon as possible. I understand that myself within 14 days, and I will try to do this in the government, because I am also inclined to do what needs to be done, to do it immediately or as soon as possible. The date, of course, as far as the ministry is concerned, I cannot tell you this moment, but it is indeed said: as soon as possible. However, the Commission will be convened within one week. The activities of the Roma settlement survey are over. 24 Roma municipalities have already submitted their reports and we will be reviewed in areas such as the land, facilities and social situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will ask the Minister of Finance the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, we have already discussed many of the problems of the insufficient efficiency of those public services, which should reveal the unjustified acquisition of property. In some ways, the number of individuals who are not included in the control or control system and who do not have a registered activity or are not employed is increasing, and they have large amounts of money and also large amounts of property. It is significant for them to be people with a lot of money, especially people who know the law and all the holes in it are skillfully avoiding and exploiting it for their own good. That is why I am deeply disturbed by the fragmentation of state institutions and, above all, by the poor efficiency of these institutions. I ask the minister: Are you thinking about introducing a financial police with special powers that could more effectively prosecute such irregularities or how you plan to address the problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you so much for asking. In the Republic of Slovenia there is detection and investigation of irregularities [[I am now limited to the tax area]] between the tax service and the State Prosecutor's Office. Infringements of tax legislation threaten to reduce the revenue of the state budget and thus also the effective functioning of the whole country.For this reason, activities in the area of preparation and implementation of legislation are targeted at the best possible coordination between all those responsible for identifying and preventing infringements. In this respect, a major step has been taken by the new Tax Service Act, which also considers the exercise of control over the implementation of the Tax Laws among the classical task forces. The new tax service law, which will apply on 1 January next year, extended the scope of the inspector's powers as an officer of the official body to the management of the duties of tax investigations. The tax investigations relate to the entire acts of the tax service carried out in order to prevent and detect activities which constitute a breach of the substantive rules of taxation and thus also to breach the financial interests of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The introduction of tax investigations gives the tax service the possibility of pre-monitoring the activities of taxable persons for whom it is assumed, or on the basis of certain indications, that they are in breach of material tax rules - these are the ones you mentioned. Such authority places the tax service in a more active position and strengthens its responsibility to prevent and detect activities aimed at avoiding, in the extreme case, tax evasion Tax evasion is in line with our legislation a criminal offence, the worst form of crime, for which appropriate sanctions are also prescribed. The rights of alleged offenders, both in the pre-trial and in the criminal proceedings, must also be protected in proportion to the sanctions at stake. The organisation of prosecution of offences is therefore also directed towards the protection of the rights of individuals and is accordingly carried out by the authorities with the most knowledge and experience, i.e. the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. As already mentioned, we are looking at solutions at the Ministry that would help to improve cooperation between all authorities involved in detecting infringements of tax rules. Accordingly, future work will aim to increase the powers of the authorised persons, both tax and customs, in particular in the forecasting process. In this way, this part of the tasks will be delegated to the authorities which have the most specialised workers in detecting infringements of tax legislation. However, there is no point in the question that generally suspected crime services are detected by tax evasion only on the basis of anonymous media reports or by chance, as could be the result of your question. For example, in order to prevent money laundering under Article 22 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering between 2001 and 2003, the Slovenian tax administration provided 18 information on grounds of suspicion of criminal offences of tax evasion. With regard to the above 18 information, the tax administration introduced an inspection in fourteen cases and, in six cases, accounted for the corporate tax, value added tax and personal income tax. However, this is only one example of the involvement of institutions. In four cases, DURS made proposals to the guilty judge, and in the other four cases, the inspection procedure is still under way. With regard to the perception of the fragmentation of state institutions fighting tax infringements and the limitations of their powers, we note that a number of state authorities are working within the Ministry of Finance, which work well together. For non-taxable financial areas, working groups have been set up to explore institutional possibilities for further deepening financial supervision in the form of a merger of financial supervision institutions, both in financial institutions and in other financial transactions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I'm satisfied with most of the answers to my question. But I'm still wondering if you're thinking about introducing the financial police. It is those who are slyly avoided and are not registered in the workplace, nor do they have their job declared as an activity and then cannot be covered by the tax service. Neither do the inspection services of those entities or individuals capture and fail to take account of them. However, it is evident that they have and own movables, both cars and houses, and cannot be found or can't prove the origin of the property. It's about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u159	The financial police, too, have been under way, and this is one of the potential possibilities. However, as I am aware of in the cases of other countries that have created the financial police, there have been many problems with this. And even in the period when the financial police began to operate, she had a lot to do with herself. That is why it takes time.And until then, we are increasing the powers and competences of individual existing institutions, and we are now thinking about combining some institutions that already have powers with others who have fewer powers to carry out all these procedures within one institution, which could also lead to the identification of these problems that you are alerting to. In particular, I would like to draw attention in particular to the fact that this is mainly linked to the tax area, that in the tax area these additional powers in the forecasting process significantly improve the possibility of detection of such evasions as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be asked the question by the rapporteur. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Minister of Labour a question. However, since I can see that he is not here, I will raise this oral question at the next meeting, so let this be taken into account. But I'm going to stop him now, too, so he'll prepare even easier because it's relatively short. While statistics show that registered unemployment in Slovenia is declining, the current register of registered unemployed is not one of those unemployed who are not actively seeking employment. That is correct, but on this basis we have not yet hired these unemployed, but of course they are still unemployed, but not in registered unemployed. In short, statistics show an image that does not show any real state in this area. This is also a key problem when we are talking about internationally comparable comparisons according to ilometology, which even Slovenia judges quite low. According to Ilometodology, Slovenia is one of the lowest unemployment rates. This is so-called surveyed unemployment, according to which a number of people who are also engaged in other illegal forms of employment or otherwise do not belong to the unemployed, nor do they recognize it. That's why this methology doesn't show us any real pictures. The biggest problem is that registered unemployed are involved in various active employment programmes, in active employment policy programmes. They are also being treated in some way. They're called employment agencies, they're looking for suitable employment, they're doing employment programmes and so on. All others, either because of the long-term unemployment and apathy that have been erased from these records, are, of course, recipients of certain social assistance and some other transfers that are also not stimulated in some way to work. I therefore ask the Minister of Labour very clearly: Does he, and I know that, and what is this statistics, say, statistics of those who are not included in registered unemployed are, in fact, jobless, although they are not actively looking for this job? But they are not looking for it for a wide variety of reasons, including personal, health reasons, because of apathy, and not least because they have tried to find employment a number of times and have failed. So I'm wondering: In fact, how many of these unemployed people who do not belong to official records are also unemployed and in some ways even more left to the indignation of everyday life? As I point out, I will ask the Minister again when he is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Also, the Minister, who is excusedly absent today, as you were informed at the beginning of the meeting, is obliged to respond orally to your request at the next meeting. I would like to invite Dr. Andre Bajuk to ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I must admit that we are surprised at the swift response of the ruling policy to our debate in the National Assembly on the findings of the audit report on the operation of the insurance company Triglav. After half a year of silence, the Supervisory Board of the Triglav Insurance Company finally met, discussed the findings in the audit report and concluded that the management of the company should not have filed a compensation action against the former President of the Administration and the former President of the Supervisory Board until one month after the decision in the shareholders' assembly. Why did he discuss these abuses because they were prizes not determined by the competent authorities only now, six months after receiving the audit report? However, the Supervisory Board does not actually conclude anything now, except to order the Administration to file an action of compensation by September. Why should the stockholders’ congregation be only between July 19 and 24, as we read in the media, when it was still in the first half of June? Are we waiting again in this case for as many things to wear off as possible, and then will we expertly conclude that there is nothing more to be done? We'll figure it out, as we've heard before, we've done everything, but unfortunately it's obsolete. Why should the Administration file an action of compensation only for the abuse of the power to pay the prizes? Why does the Administration not also initiate procedures for other infringements to be identified in this audit report? This is also about other abuses that are supposed to be identified, so we ask you in public: Will lawsuits be brought regarding the distribution of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav instead of the cash prizes at non-market value? In this case, it is not only about taxing the difference than ratings, it is about doubling the amounts of prizes. Shares were to be distributed at a lower market value and soon thereafter sold at a higher price. What will happen to the individual’s awards in the administration that are to be paid from the profit achieved, as well as during the year for the exceptional success of the current business? And many such reports and findings would be much more than just what we read in Slovenian media. Mr. Secretary, why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to warn you that the government is not directly owned by the insurance company, and it does not have corporate rights over the Triglav Insurance Company, but only indirectly the SOD and the KAD. I do not have all the information on what is in the report, of course, as a minister, because I am not obliged to report it either. This is what the Supervisory Board is discussing. But why it took so long, and it was also my question. And, of course, I also got answers to that. You know that in 2003, and on 23 June, a decision was taken at the insurance assembly to verify the management of individual business of the insurance undertaking from 1.1.1990 onwards. A special auditor was also appointed. It was concluded that a specific audit should be carried out, namely with regard to personal remuneration, which, in respect of costs, financial transactions and in accordance with the type of contract and regulation. And these independent auditors produced an independent audit report for the whole period in January 2004. This report was then first examined by the Administration in accordance with Article 70 of the Takeover Act. Procedures shall go as follows, report, administration, which has submitted it to the Supervisory Board for consideration. However, given the assessment that an independent legal opinion was still needed on the findings of the auditors, this additional legal opinion of the recognised legal institution, which focused on the determination of the existence of compensation liability in relation to the findings of the specific audit. What is in this legal opinion? Legal experts have assessed that only the auditor’s findings on the prizes for exceptional work results between 1990 and 2002, that only these findings represent the conduct of the President of the Board and the President of the Supervisory Board as contrary to the standard of professional prudence and that they are appointed for such conduct under Article 258 and Article 279 respectively. In view of the fact that this illegality has been established, the Supervisory Board, at its meeting on 8.6. when it addressed the Administration and the Supervisory Board and received a legal opinion, decided to propose to the Assembly the adoption of the decision you discussed, it is said that the insurance undertaking Triglav has been ordered to file an action within one month of the meeting of the Assembly against the former President of the Administration and the President of the Supervisory Board. Of course, it takes time for such an action to be made, so they also took time. That's what I'd have to do with it. This is said, given what the audit has concluded, so far this is what the Supervisory Board and the Assembly are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, an additional question. Your argument that the government has no direct influence is always an excuse that we hear many times. In Slovenia, the ruling authority created a system of permanent irresponsibility. First we write a law, then we create a society that's government-controlled, then we call the board of supervisors, and then they become experts and they don't answer to anyone anymore. There is a circle of news, Mr. Secretary, which you have certainly heard yourself that what has come to the public is in fact just one piece. The audit report, although amended and corrected several times, actually speaks of much more than it has leaked into the Slovenian public. What about the taxes before 1996? That's what Mr. Lenic was talking about. Has he become such an expert that he no longer responds to anyone? How is it even possible that one such institution, which has been the subject of great debate over the past decade, how much social property is at all, and finally the ruling coalition itself has decided that four fifths, not 98%, as many have also witnessed in this national assembly? What do we do now? Now it's in the hands of some experts who are obviously playing with each other because they're giving one opinion today, then they're calling the assembly in a month, and then they're ordering. Then let them wait a little longer and, before September, let them press charges for one of the perhaps ten or more violations that have been published in this so-feeling report. Of course, we don't have access to the National Assembly. Are you prepared, Mr. Minister, to receive this information and review, if things are actually being done on behalf of all people, as the law has promised? Are we once again witnessing such a toy as it has been before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u169	Still, Mr. Bajuk, it's rather incorrect. You have said that you will raise an oral question on the issue of compensation for abuses that have taken place at the Triglav Insurance Office. Of course, you have now extended this to certain additional information that the Minister of Finance in our legal order does not have the right to request. We have our own insurance company, which has owners, not just a country or a para-country, because the state is not directly concerned. These owners are also private, they are natural persons, legal persons, SOD and KAD, and of course they have their representatives in the supervisory world as owners. Experts in the Supervisory Council make decisions for which they are also responsible under our legislation. Such integration of policies into individual financial institutions, businesses, etc., if the Minister required for every matter in each supervisory council, wherever the state had an indirect share, would go outside the legislation. As Minister, of course, I have these limitations, which the law gives me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal to receive [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will propose, I know it is hopeless, but that the National Assembly will hold a debate on the Minister's response. Above all, I am interested, of course, in the basis of this answer, that we finally have one system in which no one is responsible, all are experts and the money is not where it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Andrej Bajuk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister Dusan Mramor to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide at the next meeting in the framework of the vote. I now call to the floor to ask the question of the Member of the Minister of Health, Mr Sam Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Kebra, I ask: What is the situation in the area of hospital infections in health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia? I am interested in what the National Commission for the Prevention and Control of Hospital Infections has done so far. In 2001, the Ministry of Health commissioned a study to produce data on the frequency of hospital infections and the incidence of mythicillin-resistant staphyloccal aureus. The study was completed in 2002. Results were also published. Not too cheery. The Ministry of Health has also established a National Commission for the Prevention and Management of Hospital Infections on the basis of this study. The Slovenian Society for Hospital Hygiene is also very active in this area. The question is, What is the situation in the prevention of hospital infections today, and what are the results of the work of the National Commission? I thank Mr Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor. The problem of infection with resistant staphylocci is not new for Slovenia or for other countries. In the previous mandate, the former Ministry of Health issued a regulation on the conditions for the preparation of a programme for the prevention and control of hospital infections. Since then, hospitals have gradually and today all set up special commissions, responsible doctors and nurses responsible for the implementation of this Regulation, i.e. for the implementation of methods for the prevention and control of hospital infections. Later, as you have rightly repeated this history yourself, there have been professional debates, at a certain point in time, also controversy, which we consider to be a very positive and commendable event. On the basis of this order, the Ministry has also commissioned a study that you cited, which has shown not only partly as worrying, but also as regards the predominance of all infections, but also as regards methylins of resistant stephilics, which can and should be improved. On the basis of this and because, despite the existence of hospital commissions, there were still different professional views, the Ministry decided to set up this national commission to prepare the basis for coordinated action in this area. At the time of the establishment of this National Commission to date, the Commission has adopted a programme, objectives, short-term and long-term plans to prevent and manage hospital infections. I should also mention the professional grounds for informing patients about these infections. On the basis of these recommendations, the Ministry issued leaflets for patients who were sent to all hospitals. This leaflet or its text is also available on the Ministry’s website. The Commission has re-examined national expert bases for the management of infections and is in the stage of unifying these programmes. It will prepare them in the final form for consideration in the Health Council for the autumn session of this body. In addition, the Commission is involved in amending the law on communicable diseases and with relevant European bodies working in the field of prevention of hospital infections. In this May, the Commission launched a survey to verify what measures have been taken since the first study in 2001 or published in 2002 and to date. So, on the one hand, he wants to comb the epidemiological situation again to compare the situation of that time with today's, and we hope that it will detect improvement, and, of course, comb through how and to what extent the Commissions in health care institutions follow these uniform guidelines. On this basis, on the basis of the analysis to be presented publicly, the Commission will decide, first and foremost, whether additional measures are necessary to carry out all these activities. We believe, of course, that this analysis, which is expected in a short time, will have to show that warnings of non-violence in the past have remained and that all health care providers follow instructions and professional guidance to limit these infections to the least possible extent. If that is not the case, of course the ministry will act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you. Mr Bogomir Vnučec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The space pressure in Slovenian universities is obvious, so, of course, they first commended the Ministry for turning very quickly in the case of three universities and finding a suitable place to build new capacities for these needs. On the other hand, there are also some cases where the state could more effectively apply its past investments or verify certain ownership procedures. In particular, he would mention the case of the State investing or allowing the ownership of a former potato institution in Shenchure near Kranj. There's supposed to be a lot of money in there. According to unverified information, the co-investor state is expected to be 40% of the funds. On the other hand, it is even intended to subsidise interest of ten billion. The total investment is expected to be around 43 billion. This means that more than half of the assets of this institution, which was the most equipped institute in the former Yugoslavia for this area, were also very well equipped. On the other hand, it is in this area that the State is looking for or financing new facilities for the needs of the secondary and higher biotech schools in Gorenjska. I want to know: How is it possible, on the one hand, to allow or revise procedures for the sale of this institute? I know there were other investors, Semenarna Ljubljana and KŽK Kranj, who sold it. However, she sold a very modern facility as a property. It is said that all the activities of this institute or equipment have been eliminated. The matter was sold cheap, owned by the laws, of course, as they were, but we know that these matters do not become obsolete. Question: Does the Ministry have any information, since this is an old case, isn't it as new as this property was happening? Is it also possible that the country has been damaged here in essence in terms of good governance with these facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to the floor. Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! It is therefore a matter of ownership of one of the laboratories for physiology and viral potato disease at KŽK Kranj in Shenchure. I'm not familiar with this property process. What I can say is that, at some point in time, the purchase of this lab by the state was supposed to be worth 360 million tolars. That didn't happen because during that time KZK sold this center to a private person. We will provide you with more detailed information that you have talked about, that you are interested in, that you will obtain, and that you will be given a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you. Mr Branko Kelemina will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Mr Minister, given that you have now taken up the mandate, you have probably not been familiar with or responsible for an object that has been built in the past. But I hope you're in this period, that's two months, which is what this question was raised and it didn't turn out to be. It is an overpass over the railway in Trebnje. If I'm not mistaken, there's only one overpass across the railway line. This was built about three years ago, completely new. But when the facility was built, I couldn't help but wonder at that intervention, if I said so. Because I'm from Sevnica, I'm just driving down this road. Twice every week, three times as much as it takes, given my work here in the National Assembly. So I could not be surprised that they could build such an object on a new one, almost entirely in the same execution or not wide enough to have two-way traffic on this leak or on this overpass of the road above the railway line. I'm asking you a clear question: who actually designed this project? Who did the review of this project? On behalf of the public authorities, who approved this project and financed it and also provided for its implementation? In short, my assessment is that there has been a major mistake and also a major economic damage, because to scatter social, tax money by building a new overpass, a new object with normal carrying capacity, but not for two-way traffic, but a restriction, a real narrowing of the road on this part and so on a one-way traffic on a newly built bridge, I think it is a big mistake. I would like to know whether you actually wondered why this happened, and I also ask you to give the names of those who have committed this mistake, that the Slovenian public, first of all Parliament, will then also be thoroughly informed by the Slovenian public, who designs such objects, who approves them, and who also pays and supervises them. I'd like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Minister Dr. Mark Pavli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much for the question, Member. I asked myself a question and, of course, a concrete answer. The superstructure designer was an institute for metal structures in Ljubljana. The responsible designer was Mr Gregor Gruden, a university graduate civil engineering engineer. The project was audited by Prof. Dr. Darko Bek from the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana. The project was supervised by the DDC. The cost of the project amounted to a good 63.5 million tolars, of which 53.626 million were for the repair of the facility alone, and almost 10 million, or 9,971, respectively, for the construction and removal of the temporary assembly bridge. Why did this happen? According to the information I have, the status of this facility did not allow any further delay. As you know, the problem is that there is still no route in this area, there was no route at the time, and we are still looking for an appropriate variant, this famous dilemma between the valley and the lateral variant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the answer, which will to some extent explain with whom they can deal in future and with whom they do not. However, I personally estimate that this answer does not bind the responsibility of those who have caused such an object to be built. Because definitely, no matter where the bypass is, what the bypass will be, and so on, it's an important connection in any case, and if it's built on a new facility, it's unacceptable, in my opinion, to build it for one-way traffic and not for two-way traffic. And it always stops there, and then there's all kinds of blackmail, and so on. Why is that necessary? I would like to ask you to take a closer look at why this has occurred and also to assess that it has been an irregularity, to find that it has been an irregularity and that it has also been against those responsible, at least through the Ministry, who were responsible for the realisation of this business, to be responsible for their actions. I think that, as Minister, if you are doing your job properly, even in this case, you are obliged to go back, even though this is far back, to act also so that such things will no longer happen in the future. Because really, it's not just this project, I see a lot of projects in Slovenia that have gone wrong, but no one is responsible for it. Apparently, he also misplaced a viaduct or overpass somewhere, a location on this new highway, which is built against the New City, I still need to find out which object exactly is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This can't be happening. Those who are in these responsible places must answer. I expect you to take appropriate action and also make this public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u187	I reiterate that in 2000, this facility was in extremely poor condition and, of course, the fact that the load was limited to 15 tonnes of total weight required immediate action. However, the determination of the scope of the remedial works was dependent on the course of the route, which is then not yet established.And for clarification, in the case of the route of the motorway in the corridor of the existing fast road, this is the so-called valley variant, the construction of a completely new facility across the railway would not be justified, since it would have to be demolished in the event of the construction of the highway. Secondly, in the case of the construction of the motorway outside the corridor of the existing fast road, the so-called side variant, would be the construction of a new building of the corresponding dimensions, the cost estimate was around 160 million SIT, certainly justified. I have this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Merlo will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The police statistics show that traffic safety on Slovenian roads is worse this year than in the same period last year. The number of fatal accidents, including the consequences that we mention less often and are also deeply affected by family trauma and financial stress, is higher than in a comparable three-year period. The total number of accidents increased according to last year, and the number of deaths and serious injuries also increased. It doesn't matter to a man when every day we open newspapers, like today, and we see that only 14-year-old mopeds died, he didn't survive serious injuries on Saturdays, and so on. Since the main motorcycle season has already begun, I wonder: What is the traffic safety of motor bike drivers in Slovenia this year? How many violations are prescribed for which a fine is prescribed or prescribed in a criminal judge have the police identified among motor bike drivers during this period? How much of these violations relate not to exceeding the maximum speed allowed? In fact, we know from the mouth of police officers that the most difficult thing to do is to get one of the fastest motorcyclists in this action at these dizzying speeds, when we are practically unable to get him out in the populated areas, we probably have him by the time he has those 150 to 200 kilometers inside, we have him almost on the vehicle itself. Imagine older people reacting. Again, I ask: What is the traffic safety on the regional road between Logatec - Postojno - Raztrým, which is extremely popular among motor bike drivers? The remaining participants in transport and local residents are of the opinion that, despite the assurances you made in response to the question sent to the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, at this section. 9. 2003 there is still a massive violation of road traffic regulations by motor bike drivers. I therefore wonder: What measures have the police carried out in this section during this period, and how many of these measures have been taken? Did the police in this section already start measuring with a radar on a three-legged stand, as you told us at the already mentioned meeting of the National Assembly? I also ask: Are the changes introduced by the proposal of the new Road Safety Act, in the opinion of the police, sufficient to significantly improve road safety between motor bike drivers and motorcycles in Slovenia, as well as among bikers, taking into account the preventive work of the police and others, such as schools in this area? In this area, however, the more active roles of those who are called upon to do so are certainly not enough, and this is the parent’s. Schools may also suggest that parents should keep their children informed or use motor tools more consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your Honor! They've prepared some data for me, considering you're asking about the safety of motor bike drivers. There were 224 traffic accidents on Slovenian roads until 1 June 2004 involving motor bike drivers. In the same period last year, 225. So for one less. In 143 cases, and in 158 or 63% of last year's cases, motor bike drivers were also responsible for these accidents. So this year is much less. In these accidents, five motor bike drivers died as a result of accidents, significantly less than last year when they died 13. Police carried out 625 repressive measures, fines and motions against motor bike drivers. Of these, 228 measures were taken against speed limits. And a little bit more about these measures. In the area of the Ljubljana Police Administration, a special plan for tighter control of drivers of single-wheeled vehicles was also developed in last year. In this plan, the Logatec - Unec road section, among the other road sections that stand out on this issue, would also highlight the road section. Five accidents involving motorists were recorded in that area last year, in which one person died following the accident. This year, however, three traffic accidents were recorded with the participation of motorists, in which one person also died. For this year's motoristic season, only the Ljubljana Police Administration has planned ten additional tighter controls on motor bike drivers, which will be carried out on regular day-to-day controls, in short. In addition, with a view to greater control over this category of drivers, a pilot group of police officers was established in the PU Ljubljana area this year solely to carry out speed control. It will carry out measurements on this road in accordance with the plans. With this measure, we want to calm down this particular category of transport participants. The measurements with the tripod have already begun, as promised, but were later interrupted by the defect. Technical services shall endeavour to remedy these defects as quickly as possible. Until then, surveillance will be carried out by laser sensors and video surveillance systems. There were a total of 67 traffic accidents in 2003, including 12 accidents involving motor bike drivers in the area of the PU Postojna on the F2 409 regional road between Planina and Razdrtima. In these accidents, two drivers died, one was badly injured, and four could be injured. In the period from 1.1 this year to 12.6.2004, only three car accidents occurred between the Mountain and the Crushing Mountains, without bodily harm. Police have jointly identified 182 violations of road traffic rules against all participants, not only against motorists. The Postojna Police Administration estimates that the physical presence of the police at the said sections has proved to be the most effective, and that is why they will try to ensure it in the future. And a new road safety law. This will certainly help to increase safety among motor bike drivers as well. The penalties for non-compliance with speed limits are substantially increased, and the speed is, as is known, the most common infringements for this category of carrier as well as the causes of accidents. It should be borne in mind that only punishment will not have sufficient educational effect on motor-wheel drivers. For more needs to be done in education, education, persuasion, although the latter is not exclusively within our competence, we have decided years ago to transfer the rich experience of our instructors for driving motor bodies to other motor bike drivers in safe driving schools. Two such projects were or are still under way. The first is the police experience as a advice and second ride of scooters, police experience as advice taking place in the area of all police administrations. We will continue with these preventive activities in the future. Finally, let me stress only that much greater impact on the safety of this category would also be the construction of a racetrack or other similar surface. Unfortunately, this racetrack is not available, so regular traffic is being sought for such purposes, which is considered unacceptable by the police. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thanks for the answer. I'd say, thanks to the bad weather this year, the data is a little bit better. But we must admit that luckily we had such bad weather this year that normal sunny days for motorcyclists were extremely few; otherwise, there would have been more of these problems. I certainly hope you'll continue to do so. But I'm also absolutely sure that an adequate severe punishment, which is good for you, so to speak, slaps and slaps on your wallet, is certainly a good motive for you to start thinking about this subject, or else you're going to press on the gas. Secondly, I think it's just as you said, a consistent presence of an organ, a policeman, is enough to sober you up a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Economy will be posed by a mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! On 21 April, you published a call for funds from the European Regional Development Fund. This call is not sufficiently transparent and discriminatory in its final sequence. In particular, you have excluded some areas that are more characteristic than tourist destinations, and for which, in fact, there are also large favoured companies. I want to know: Why have you excluded in the invitation to tender some other places that may be interesting for the development of tourism and are characterised by less developed areas? There's a lot of them. In fact, this call also fulfils the programmes which should in fact be financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that it is not about creating some added value by means of funds from the European Union. The call is designed to allocate money or treat it positively until the final use of funds. This, of course, may put some projects in a priority position that may have been prepared earlier, but they are not good. This disables the real comparison of projects and their quality and implementation. Some advisory companies that have previously worked on the preparation of regional development programmes are also favoured in the process, and now act as project advisors. In our opinion and in my opinion, the Ministry should offer assistance to the notifiers, open sufficient deadlines for the application and ensure equal opportunities for the application, so that the programmes can be compared. When we went to see which ones could actually apply - the time to apply was relatively short, it would be good to also notify in time - we found that some of the large companies for these projects, such as Istrabenz, Sava Kranj and Krka. We know what it's like to manage these tourist destinations. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Will you cancel this invitation and complete it? How will you ensure balanced regional development? When we entered the European Union, we also actually accepted the criteria for reducing differences. The countries themselves, with the European Fund, with the money of the European funds, provide for minor differences, reducing differences. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u197	I also gave a written answer, which I have not yet received.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u199	You will receive, Mr Drobnič, a written reply as well as an oral one. You are probably aware that in July 2002 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy of Slovenian tourism for the period 2002-2006 in an extensive preliminary discussion with the tourism economy, municipalities and civil initiative organisations. The main objective of this strategy is to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism. The goals are very ambitious. These objectives state that we want to increase the annual foreign exchange flow from 1.1 billion euros to 1.6 billion euros by 2006, increase the number of overnight stays from 7.3 million in 2002 to 9 million by 2006, implement an investment cycle of 1.6 billion by 2010, increase the role of knowledge and improve the education structure of employees in all areas and levels of Slovenian tourism, and clearly improve the quality of Slovenian tourism offer. Three product areas have been identified: medical wellness tourism, gambling and entertainment tourism, business tourism. It is true that geographical areas such as the tourist area of the Julian Alps, the tourist area of Pohorja with Maribor, the tourist area of Kras and the tourist area of the coast were also identified. Various programme areas have also been identified. Within the first priority, a call from the European Regional Development Fund was also included in the single programming document. Of course that's true. And here's where you're right. However, it is not clear that some regions could not apply for this invitation to tender. All regions which may be included in any of those product areas that have also been listed as priority may be declared under this call. And I stress that we are based on the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism for the period 2002-2006. And this strategy has been put into a broader public debate. On this basis, the terms of the invitation to tender were also put in place. We come from a national strategy, as I said, less developed regions can also apply. Moreover, if you look at less developed regions, you will see that they are developing tourism right in the area of these product areas that have been mentioned. Of course, it does not hold to the fact that this is the only invitation to tender. There are still a number of other means, such as co-financing key investments in tourism infrastructure, up to the development of tourist farms covered by, say, the agency for agricultural markets and rural development. In short, there's still a whole series of other calls. In the context of this call, we are based on the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism. My argument is that we have followed precisely the logic of certain priorities resulting from the national strategy in the tender itself. However, as far as your suggestions regarding consultants are concerned, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Economy is never and is not favouring any advisers. In our view, companies will simply select those advisers who will be the most qualified and qualified. And just the fact that someone has participated in the preparation of the regional development programme does not mean anything. As far as the business statement is concerned that everything is already ready, I do not think that if that were the case, then we would not be based on the strategy itself, we would be prioritising. The matter is very, very transparent, as you can see. Finally, we also answer to all interested investors on a daily basis their specific questions regarding the call for proposals. The most common questions and answers are also published on the Ministry's website. Information days have also been organised, so as far as this call is concerned, I must say that it is extremely transparent, and I will endeavour to ensure that the whole process continues to be carried out in accordance with the tendering conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u201	It's about giving up 8 billion money. This project or the author of this strategy is Dr. Kovac. We know what circles it's coming from. The government has confirmed that. Nice, nice! However, we will see what will happen when you finance, what will actually show up - which financial lobby and which major enterprises are behind these projects. I do not mind involving large companies such as Istrabenz, such as Sava, such as Krka and some others, in the development programme. We know what they look like and what connections are like. But when you put 8 billion money in it, not in Slovenian, but in some sense in public money, we can ask ourselves whether this call is sufficiently transparent, or whether it aims to achieve even regional development and equal integration opportunities. Why did you not leave, for example, three or four months of open invitation to compare projects? How can you now distribute this at the first opening, and some good projects that require more applications will be released? Once the money's exhausted, it won't be possible to make it. Why don't we touch the other ones? For example, new tourist products, rural tourism, learning paths, tradition and culture and similar things. Of course, we will take a closer look at how these tenders took place, who is the recipient of these funds. We'll probably also require a review.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Look, just the last one, let me read to you again: "Co-financing investments in tourist facilities and recreational areas on farms. This is a measure called 3.3 diversification of agricultural activities and activities close to agriculture." There are different invitations to tender for different purposes. What you have just said, I cannot accept this, because you have already condemned some companies and continued to link the legitimacy of the call to its result. That doesn't make any sense. The legitimacy of the invitation to tender is linked to the tender procedure, to the criteria of the invitation to tender, to transparency. If certain companies are successful on this call or if certain companies are interested in investing in tourism, I do not see any problem in this, I would like to see such companies more. Once again, it is often a matter of investing in development-related areas. You yourself mentioned Krka, which mainly, as far as I know, invests in Dolenjska. We also have Prekmurje, where tourism is one of the solutions to the development of this area. We have a whole range of other areas that I have mentioned, such as the development of the Julian Alps, such as the development of Crassus, as we have, not least, the Coast. And we have said that the development of tourism is one of the key activities that will also be defined in Slovenia's economic development strategy. I stress once again, does not hold that some a priori continue to be excluded. However, it is true that they must be found within the priority production areas. These are the areas that can create the most jobs that can contribute most to economic growth in Slovenia. And that was the strategy. Here I ask you in public: Why didn't you answer when the strategy was coming? When the strategy is adopted, when it went through public hearing, when it was also adopted by the government, we just have to stick to it. If not, of course I ask you: Why do we have a strategy? It would be illogical if I now threw that document away and said, "It doesn't make any sense, the tendering conditions, the rules of the game will be completely new." I think that here you agree with me that it is precisely in this transparency of this call to stick to certain strategic priorities, strategic documents, which in this case we call also a strategy for the development of tourism activities for the period 2002/2006. As for these deadlines, you know, the deadline is relatively short. If we don't draw on this asset, we won't. We will be net contributors to the European budget. And there's just more openings. He doesn't claim that these funds are already exhausted. The three openings are: on 19 May, on 2 June, the next opening and on 30 June. And here, from this point of view, this call is extremely transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you, Minister Lakhovnik. Procedurally, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I believe that, with the second paragraph of Article 164, I request that a debate be held in Parliament with regard to the reply of Mr Lahovnik, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u206	Thank you. This proposal will be forwarded tomorrow and will be decided in the context of the vote. The question raised by Jože Tanko to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport follows. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. Not long ago, the National Assembly adopted a new law on kindergartens, stipulating, among other things, that congregations should also check the property status of their parents. This is all before easy and easy work, especially since municipal officials are neither competent nor qualified for implementation nor evaluation. An even greater problem arises when certain checks are to be carried out in the Land Book or when a survey is to be carried out in other public institutions that do not normally want to participate or provide the data sought. It has also been repeatedly pointed out that the system of pricing for kindergartens and payments of services is not appropriate. In his analysis in Finance, Dr. Mrkaić gave these warnings only financial support. It is clear from the diagrams that the contribution of parents in terms of pay is particularly uneven in the border areas of payment classes. I have already asked this question myself because it relates mainly to the rise in prices in kindergartens in 2002. In early April, the municipality of Sodražica also sent an initiative to the Ministry and to both communities, together with a proposal for amendments to parental payments. But here's the deal. They offer a single price of kindergarten for all parents to cover food costs and part of material costs. The cost of work is transferred to the country as is the case with primary schools, and the other costs should be borne by the municipality, as is the case with primary schools. The proposal supported 60 congregations, but after two or almost three months of the ministry’s response. The existing system, however, has a type of shortcomings and allows for a number of abuses. I want to know: Why is it that despite the constant warnings that something in the area of payment for kindergartens does not work, does it not? How and when will you address this great problem, which disturbs all congregations, parents, and all who are still involved? Why is there no response to the well-intentioned initiatives and proposals coming from the municipalities in particular in the case of Soržica? Is the recognition that something is not working or that something is working, extremely problematic, really difficult? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you. There is a minister, Dr. Slavko Gaber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you. If I let go, if I leave aside this demagogue part of the question, then let me say that we had more meetings after Slovenia in May with representatives of the municipalities, and that we discussed there the proposals that I am hearing here today - about the further centralisation of this country and how we would further collect the funds that are in the municipalities. By first concentrating them at the country level and then paying salaries for kindergartens around the country. It seems to us that the trend should be reversed: that it would be a time for Slovenia to decide on the development of the provinces, the establishment of the provinces and then the normal functioning of the system. However, as far as preschool education is concerned, it is pointed out that this is also a far-reaching position in the municipalities; things are regulated; that we have come after long talks also to adopt a methodology for price setting and that in accordance with the new regulation we have already established prices after the new 60 % of all municipalities - this moment is probably a larger number, I am talking about the latest data collected by the Ministry. I admit that this ministry is one of the first to be engaged or decided to do so together here in Parliament; therefore, we are among the first to have decided to include the wealth situation in the consideration and determination of payment in kindergartens. When we discussed this, a high level of consensus was reached here on the need to do so and to put an end to some of the Mercedes, with more than a good material situation at home, applying the exemption from the cost of kindergarten. We did this for the first time in the fall last year. A few shouts and screams have caused this very fact that this has begun to come to light. It will certainly take us another year to put this system into effect. If we can upgrade it faster, then all proposals for this upgrade are welcome. In accordance with the Ministry's work plan and also in accordance with agreements with the communities or associations of municipalities at the end of July, we will have information to tell us what we have achieved in this area in the first year at the level of financial impact. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you, Minister. Jože Tanko has another word for the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u211	The fact is that this verification of the property situation is extremely difficult and difficult and that the municipalities of this, especially because the public sector itself is unable to provide comparable data, are unable to do so and that it is essentially an article that is in some way dead and cannot be implemented. Another thing that somehow speaks of the trend being reversed, that municipalities take on a greater part of the burden, is that the Ministry of Education sets practically everything in the field of preschool education. Determines staff standards, determines the progress of employees, norms of children in departments, norms of surfaces, determines the price of fuel. The Ministry of Finance calculates the income base and then the Ministry of Education proposes a rule on the allocation of costs between parents and the municipality. In short, the whole system is extremely centralized. There is absolutely no way for the municipalities to react in this way. However, if they are already trying to do anything in this area, as was the case, let's say, Lenart, if you could probably perform a certain reorganisation and have underestimated the service, that is to say that they would take some economic step forward in order to do the same service cheaper and more rationally, and they would also run into an administrative obstacle by the Ministry of Education, which would prevent, say, reorganisation, even though the institution was set up. In short, there is a series of blockades in the system of preschool education, which in some ways prevent municipalities from designing their own prices. That's why I think this is an initiative. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Associates, who in a different way divide contributions mainly between parents, the congregation and the country, are fully justified and given the powers the Ministry has in this area or the state, particularly rational. [[...]] I want to know: How, for example, can congregations undertake rationalization under these conditions if certain things cannot even be done and the ministry insists on these things?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u212	Minister, you have a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Of course, a whole lot of half-truths and a lot of claims made from such wrong assumptions. Look, Comrade Tanko, you know more than well that the methodology has been adopted by aligning itself with both associations of municipalities, that work has been done for more than a year very intensively. And only when agreement was reached with them and also with the kindergarten community was it published. That's elemental. You also know that the representatives of the municipalities are involved in the negotiations on wage-setting for this area and so on. Of course, I'm not hiding any other fact, it's all possible to arrange otherwise. Maybe it's a deregulation of this area and it's a real dilemma for me. However, deregulation will once again bring about significantly greater differences in the standard between municipalities than we have at this time. We put prices in kindergartens for the first time into meaningful frameworks, i.e. price differences, only in the last year when this methodology was really used. Before that, it was paid for a very similar service in different parts of the country for a double price difference, including by parents. And this is where we have to answer, which one of both systems or which one we're going to use. I don't know if it's always the answer to let the state pay for everything or let it all be deregulation. We're looking for some real measure here. I am not saying that we have found it, but I say that important steps have been taken in the last five, six years in regulating this area and that today the situation in a variety of kindergartens is better than they were before the whole system was arranged differently. But as for Lenart, it's very simple. They're trying to shut down a kindergarten with 16 wards. Our ministry says that kindergartens cannot be easily dissolved if they have such a number of departments. If there are fewer than 10 of them, they can be reorganised and joined to schools; we have participated in this in many ways. And secondly, it is a matter of dispute as to whether the congregation can decide to pay the wages of teachers and educators who do the work there because it is in conflict with the kindergarten. Our answer is no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u214	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Dr. Joseph Bernik. Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u215	Thank you. Given that this is an extremely important area, which to a large extent also determines the quality of work in the municipalities, it also burdens municipal budgets, also burdens parents' contributions, I would suggest that the State Assembly, in accordance with Article 246, should also hold a debate on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u216	Thank you. We will also decide on this proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. Dr. Joseph Bernik has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Dr. Vlado Dimovski is not present at the moment, but you will still ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u217	Yes, what I want, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for that opportunity. But why ask the question if the minister is never here? That's another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u218	That's not gonna hold. He's not here today because he's excused being absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u219	I am very sorry, but if I may suggest, Mr President, that you may arrange to tell us in advance who will not be. Because we can sit here all night waiting for him to come. But he's not coming, and we don't get an answer. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] That is why I will request this reply in writing, and I will also complain that there are no ministers. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u220	Well, I gave you the opportunity to ask the question and ask it briefly at the next meeting of the National Assembly and get an answer. That's how we're gonna end today. Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek has a question for the Secretary-General of the Government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u222	Mirko Bandlu. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u223	Good-bye! My question concerns the conduct of the Prime Minister, the government services and the Prime Minister in the event that took place at the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Krka factory, on 27 May, at which the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, spoke as a festive speaker. I want to know: Why did the government not immediately block itself from the indemnity and inequitable mockery of the disease and age of the people, this time from the age and disease of the pope, but apparently it was hidden from the public? This is the only way to protect and protect the reputation of the State and its high representatives from the domestic and foreign public. Why did the first reactions and explanations come only after the journal Journal or subsequent public questions of church dignitaries were written? Then, of course, I wonder how governments did not force the rapporteurs from the event to make the necessary explanations. Was it attempted censorship or self-censorship? It's both bad, it's both very bad! 'Cause I'm wondering: Is this because of pressure because he hosted the LDS candidate for the European Parliament? No one has informed the public of the incident by daily newspapers and electronic media. This is an important issue of media independence and professionalism. I also ask: How was the State Commission for Celebrations or the State Protocol involved in the preparation of the celebration? How much information do they hold that the celebration of state logos has tried to abuse to promote Slovenian Liberal Democracy candidates for the European Parliament? That the host was suggested to invite guests mainly from government parties, as we have seen in some of the videos, this has mainly happened. This is just to say that something like this would no longer happen in the way it happened in the Puppet Theatre, when the then government outfit literally suggested to the public that there was something positive, that any mockery was allowed and possible, and the government did nothing to stop these negative phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u224	The Secretary-General of the Government has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I do not know what else to respond to these insinuations, insinuations and similar nebroses of the Member. All I can say is that I don't know anything about the incident. No one has turned to me now, none of the government services have been informed of any incident with anything. I must also say that government services have no authority to interfere with certain celebrations organised by civil society or the economy that are not state celebrations. It wasn't a national celebration, the state protocol didn't program this celebration like it was just planted. And of course, because I have no authority to answer that either? I can only say as a citizen of this country that I hope that neither I nor my descendants will ever experience the fact that a country or government service or anyone reacts to some events that are happening outside the sphere of government and which, of course, can only be assessed for this by the competent institutions of civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u227	Thank you very much. In the way that the Secretary-General has now responded and, as the Government does, the state is unfortunately losing its reputation. The Secretary-General says that none of the government or anyone has been informed that any incident has taken place. Since then, it has been explained that the Prime Minister, Mr Rob, has felt very uncomfortable and I do not know how they speak about the incident themselves - but the government services do not know anything. So I also ask: Why does the Government's Public Information Office not offer a video recording of the event and thus raise questions about the behaviour of politicians? I have no reason not to believe that they were embarrassed, so let the tape show up, because the confusion on the faces on the video will certainly be visible if it was really present. And finally, there were also many here present even though today there are few people, politicians of governmental kinds - no one rose up and walked as they do abroad! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u228	Thank you. Mirko Bandelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u229	I could also say that this time I feel really good listening to you two talking, and I can't imagine what system you fell out of. But once again, I can't imagine that in this country, the government's information office would be able to keep the public informed about something that is a function of the media. And I can say, more than that, I'm pleased that the media didn't fall for these provocations that you're trying to negotiate now. I also repeat that no one has turned to any of the government services regarding any incident that would have taken place in the New Town at the Krka celebration. Nobody! And even if you did! Thank God, I can say that most of us in this country are just smart people, and we know that this is not what government services are responsible for. And also, to have to react to a report from a Journal by the government, it seems to me that it is completely depressed and appropriate for some coffee shop discussions. I also have to say that I can't imagine the state and government in the world that should -- let's say -- your sketches should comment on your performances. Thank God, there's no such country, and I hope it'll never be in this territory again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I have to protest procedurally on such a level of response that they speak on coffee shows. Such responses from governments may, in my opinion, also have serious consequences for the Slovenian state. And I don't allow myself to talk about coffee shops, and I just read what happened in the media, and I think it's a pretty serious event, and actually with my question, I'm trying to protect the state's reputation, not hurt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u232	Ivan Mamić has a question for the Minister of Transport, Dr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. The Podnanos and Hrasč landscapes in the Vipavska Valley with the support of other towns around the village last fall protested and signed a petition to accelerate the construction of the lower section of the Rasdrto-Vrotojba fast road, which is 4.7 kilometers long. Their concern is great because the current traffic of around 7,000 vehicles per day flows through the village of Podnanos along the road, which is only three metres away from the primary school with one pedestrian crossing. In addition to the risk to children, such traffic also causes noise that disturbs these children in learning. Dars's response was that by the beginning of this year, he was invited to make a route. Looks like it was just sand in the eyes of the natives. Why would it be possible to make project documentation according to the plan for the dynamics of the construction of this section of the fast road? So the paperwork's more than half a year late. That, by my logic, means delay for at least one year. However, I think that by the end of 2007, the construction of this road will be completed, as described in the national programme, but the unloading of the existing road is vital for the people of the country, and especially for the children, and if the funds are deposited, as the representatives of Darsa have said, I am interested in what remains to be done. Since I myself have been involved in this matter, along with the local and local leaders of the congregation of Vipava, I feel responsible for getting a real answer to their frequent questions: When will construction begin, or when will children begin attending school without their parents ’ escort and from school across the street without having to accompany teachers after school? So, when's the invitation? That's the main question. Now, as an addition, I would like to state that 4.7 miles [4.7 km] of fast road under favourable conditions is no problem in a few months, but in a favourable terrain. In this area I am talking about, the road should also be piloted up to 30 metres deep [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This section contains two two two-twelve tunnels about a mile [0.5 km] in length, which is two times two, one kilometer. [[...]] The problem of construction is increased by the fact that it is steep - so much more difficult to make accessible paths that will not then be. In short, it is in a technical sense a very difficult section as well. So, when will the call for people at least know when the problem will be over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u234	Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Although we only got your question a few hours ago, we tried to prepare as comprehensive an answer as possible. And I would suggest that I read it in the spirit of as rational a time as possible. Due to difficulties in buying land, the military range, it was not possible to build a high-speed road according to the current location plan. The proposed modified route by the variant Brnica - north 1 was designed rationally, but the changed course of the rapid road route due to the proximity of the villages of Hrasče and Porec, was strongly opposed by the local Hrasč, Poreč and Podnanos and the commission for the adoption of the construction of the fast road Razdrto - Vipava, which operates within the municipality of Vipava. Therefore, an additional ventilation of the amended rapid-road route was made. The new variant, called Civ-1, is more distant from the village of Hrašče v Poboč. The comparison between the Civ-1 variant and the Brnica variant - north 1 shows that they are both technically feasible, but the advantage is the first in a minor deviation from the already adopted location plan and in a greater distance from the settlements of Hrašče and Poreč, which makes it more acceptable for the municipality and affected locals. The Civ-1 variant is more favourable in most environmental terms than the Brnica variant - north 1 and its weakness is reflected in an increase in investment costs, as around 780 million SIT is more expensive than the Brnica variant - north 1. In order to change the pace of the rapid road route, it will be necessary to implement the whole process of changing the location plan as well as other activities that will be the basis for the conclusion of the construction and construction contract. Of course, I can't give you the exact date right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u236	Thanks for the answer. Ivan Mamić has an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u237	I'm not going to say that you're not telling the truth because you didn't even participate in this matter, just this change, that's the third option that was adopted, the so-called interim or - I don't know what they've already called it - it's also more expensive, etc. But it's not the point of the problem. The essence of the problem, as I mentioned, is the road through Podnanos. Just what you're saying right now, that's what the Darsov people told me before the new year, that the plan was made for the invitation to tender right after the new year. That's what they say. They threw sand in my eyes and in your eyes, too, if that's how they responded. I would ask nicely, and we will deliver records from the congregation of Vipava because I was involved in this matter. Even because I'm also a builder, and I'm interested in these things, and I know them, and so on. Please try to get the right answer from Dars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u238	Minister, you have the floor for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u239	I'll get the data and see how it goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I give the word to Rudolph Petan for a question to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who is not here at the moment - I hope he listens nearby and will come - Dr Slavko Gabru. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u241	As far as I know, the minister is here, I wouldn't say twice, I'll wait that long.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u242	Dr. Slavko Gaber, I hope she's listening. I suggest there's no embarrassment, no substitution. I'll give the word to Aloys Sok, but Dr. Gaber's already here. We will start with this question. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport the question of the following content. Mr. Minister, as you comment on the FDV event, the Faculty of Social Sciences, when the referee at the university in question placed before the door of a member of the Slovenian army who wanted to arrange the study matters and they were in the uniform of the Slovenian army, that is, in the clothes prescribed by the Slovenian state and requested them to wear them. And in this college, this uniform represents a barrier to handling matters. Because it's not about any teaching facility, it's about the one who teaches at the Department of Defence, and the people who are going to have to wear a uniform after graduation. In view of the above and in view of the fact that the lecturer is also the Minister of Defence at the university mentioned, he gets the sense that it is not necessarily so, but he gets the feeling - that there are some old offenses or that there are employed people who - I don't know, may be a little harsh expression, I don't say that it is so, but a person can also think - that they are people who hate everything that smells like institutions of the Slovenian state, except maybe the wages they get. That's what we can think, so I'm asking. Mr. Minister: Do you think it is right that an employee or employee behaves as a state in the country and shame of a state institution and interprets the rules in its own way, bureaucraticly, to the detriment of the state and, in particular, the users and determines who is properly dressed or not? Last but not least, this person is there because of users, because of students, regular or extraordinary, or at work or whatever, and it would be right for those doing such work to be aware of that. Or perhaps, in a particular case, this person may also take on powers that do not go beyond his or her powers. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u244	Thank you for asking. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u245	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! In accordance with the regime in this country, we have responded to the University of Ljubljana and also to the Faculty of Social Sciences where this event took place. I'll give you their written answers myself, because I have them before me, too. But what I would like to say is that I personally appreciate that this unhappiness of the event, in my opinion, has pointed to the excessive zeal of any of the faculty employees and the excessive concern that they would have understood too narrowly, in fact, the 9th Article of the Statute of the University of Ljubljana, which I will read to you, if you will allow. He says: "The uniformed members of the police or armed forces shall not be uninvited to enter the premises of the university, except in urgent cases of intervention, when life and body or property are at risk." That such a record can be found in the Statute of the University of Ljubljana, there is nothing special about such records, you can find in quite a number of similar acts across universities in Europe and this is a very clear sign of the autonomy of this school space. Of course, this article does not refer to the entry of students into an institution. If we properly understand the explanation of the rectorate of the University of Ljubljana as well as the dean, it is that in these cases this entry is ongoing and there are no specific problems, of course when it comes to the study process. And it tells us, indirectly, that you also know that the gentlemen mentioned were able to do their work, which they regulated for a third party. So what they came to college for, they did that day, even though they didn't do it for themselves. I believe, however, that this public debate will also clear the meaning of Article 9 of the Statute, which is, above all, that the police as a corps cannot enter the premises of the university without being invited there. And even then, he can only exceptionally enter. And the same goes for the army. However, for all of us, or for all of us citizens and citizens, wearing a uniform, it will be considered to ensure that it is visible and that it is known that they are present in these institutions for study purposes. However, I believe that this is not about any malicious or unfriendly conduct of this university. You're the one who mentioned the people coming from this college. I could count some more of them, which are certainly quite high in the institutions of this country, and this university, even at the time of independence, proved that the people who studied there were willing to make a lot of money for this country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u246	Rudolf Petan has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. So, Mr. Secretary, I must admit I'm pleased with what I've heard. I asked especially because it's not any college, but I'm going to say that I'm going to make it as simple as possible - it's a motherhood for, say, the Ministry of Defence, because we don't have military education. And that's the primary college that educates personnel in this area. And therefore it is a bit unusual, even if it were any other way, that members of the Slovenian army in uniform could not appear there for study matters. That's what I understand. Because this logic also makes members of the Slovenian army, I don't know, maybe I'll overdo it a little bit, we shouldn't show up for a blood-stretching action, because someone would find out right away that that's not going to work. But the answer you gave me, gives me some hope or some basis that it was probably some overly bureaucratic treatment of a rule. Even if such a provision is - and I believe what you have read to me - then you should probably ask yourself if it is correctly written. Maybe he's a little bit ambivalent, so we can explain him one way or another. In order to avoid such ambiguous interpretations, it will probably be necessary to clear up the matter, as you yourself have mentioned, and to talk a little. It would be very unusual for this to happen at the Faculty of Homeland for the Slovenian Army. Now that you have mentioned yourself, the staff from this university have shown their knowledge and contributed to the establishment of the Slovenian state. And even now, as they provide personnel for the Slovenian army and, as you know, we are now also a member of NATO and the Slovenian army must have been given great verification and harmonisation with NATO standards. So I hope that this will happen, as you have suggested, so that there will be no such will or too much bureaucratic interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u248	Thank you. You'd like another word for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u249	Just for a little while. See that, like many in Slovenia, the rules of conduct are being upgraded at the university and that, like many others, the question of the interpretation of the article in the statute, which seems to me to be relatively correct, but I am not a lawyer and will already be judged by someone else that this practice is being formed in accordance with this article. I don't know that we'd have any kind of complication in, I don't know, the last decade of this kind at university. What's more, from the university, I'm told that the rector is still, on a preliminary request for admission of these people to other colleges, where it's not about what you're talking about, that the Department of Defence is part of this college, that he approved. I myself understand this discussion as well-intentioned, and I also count that things will be regulated either by supplementing the interpretations or by supplementing, above all, the conduct in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u250	Thank you, Minister. The word will be given to Franz Pukšič. He has a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, who is excused to be absent from participating in the European Union General Affairs and External Relations Council. But you want to ask the question anyway? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is unfortunate that you did not say at the beginning of the questions put forward that Mr Dimitri Ruple would not be present at the parliamentary meeting. The call made by the two ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is as follows in the Official Journal on the basis of legislation and regulations: a targeted call for the selection of a central magazine for Slovenians around the world. The tendering conditions set out in this invitation to tender are also reflected. First time. General conditions for participation in the call for tender, which explicitly states "the fulfilment of contractual obligations to the Republic of Slovenia in the past". The tender criteria will then be: "Practicely dealt with projects of applicants which have shown a sense of economic activity in the past." Under "Conforming with the terms of the tender" it says: "The special expert commission appointed by the chairman of the finance managers will carry out the opening of the applications and evaluate them. Applications that do not meet the general conditions" and so on - will be rejected. And under 6.2, "Use of criteria." The project will be selected by the applicant, who will be best evaluated or evaluated in the selection process and will reach the highest number of points. Given that this was not the case with the selection of the Slovenian magazine operator in place and around the world, we are at a meeting of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world, at the 24th meeting on 29 April, which was also attended by the Director of the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world - I asked her a question. I ask: Was the proposal for a professional evaluation different from the decision of the Ministry? On the basis of the invitation to tender published in the Official Journal, i.e. the target invitation to tender for the selection of the central magazine, of course, Jadranka Šturm Kocjan could only reply - yes. Her answer was, "Yes, it was different." This means that the Ministry has made a decision contrary to the conditions laid down. Contrary to what they've asked for. I ask the Minister: What will he do with Director Jadranka Šturm, who violates the conditions and works contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u252	Thank you very much for asking a question to be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. The question raised by colleague Alojz Sok to the Minister for Information Society follows. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u253	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members. So, I'm going to ask, maybe I've already asked, today the Prime Minister here told his colleague Janša that he's been asking the same question for six years, but it's interesting that a man asks six times, but it's still not. I will therefore ask the Minister once again about the return of investments for the development of telecommunications. Indeed, the government has already adopted and will propose to Parliament that the deadline for the collection of applications be extended until 7 December. It is obvious that it is an extension through elections, it is said that it is time-consuming and that in this pre-election time the savers are promised something that the government almost two years after the referendum, which has clearly determined that too much money has to be returned, has not been realized. I wonder: What can the government do in these six months in this direction so that investors can obtain information that they have not been able to obtain so far? Ter: How and on what basis can the government say that the delay of this deadline will in fact not affect the deadlines for the implementation of these refunds? It is clear here that this deadline delays the time frame, unless, of course, the government takes all of this seriously and does not intend to return these funds. I would also like to say that according to Telekom's business data, last year Telekom created 5.7 billion Slovenian tolars of total revenue, of which 10.3 billion net profits. However, the funds to be returned to investors are estimated at around 20 billion Slovenian tolars, which means that Telekom could start these refunds before the first phase of the privatisation of Telekom begins. So, if I repeat, the question is: What will the government do in these six months to enable investors to obtain data if they have not been able to obtain it so far since the referendum? So, actually, I think it's just a matter of stalling and making time for the elections that are ahead of us. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u254	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Dr. Gantar, I must explain to my colleague Puksic that - so I have information - the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, excused the absence of the Government of Dimovski and Dimitri Ruple at the beginning of the meeting. So much for information. Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Sok for the question to which I am going to answer, but I regret that Mr Pavel Rupar has failed to come to the meeting and raise the question I have drawn up and would be happy to answer. But it's nothing. So, I will answer the question with the following explanation and then specifically with a specific question. The Investment Recovery Act interferes with more than 20 years of time. For this reason, the implementation of the law has shown unpredictable and very different situations in life. In short, we have found that one contract is not the same and that there are specific circumstances, contractual clauses or provisions in each contract that require a very careful individual treatment. This is also, of course, a difficult search for contracts and other authentic public documents on the basis of which beneficiaries can exercise the right to return their investments. In addition, residential cooperatives and core cooperative organisations have also emerged as contractual partners, which as legal entities are not intended to recover investments and are based on a merger of natural persons, which are envisaged as final beneficiaries. In practice, it has also been shown that because of the nature of the contractual relationship between parties, open issues cannot be accelerated in any way and that each individual question requires so-called individual treatment. The applicant therefore assesses the government that, after the deadline has thus expired - before the expiry of the deadline, all potential beneficiaries were not given equal treatment so that those who had a clear situation could immediately do so. However, those who do not have such clean situations need extra time to obtain documents to clear up their questions and make an application. In order to assist in the search for these contracts, we have hailed Telekom on each issue, and at the same time the Ministry of Information Society has also published a list of contracts that have been made for other purposes - property transformation. However, it is a very good orientation for all who may not have contracts and are on this list to find such a contract. That is why, of course, I must answer this question, and quite the contrary, as Mr Sok suggests. The very extension of the deadline for the recovery of investments is a consistent commitment of the government to respect and comply with the referendum decisions because it gives those who have a difficult situation in finding these documents more time to find them.It certainly does not mean delaying the repayment of funds, because this is in any way related to the law on the privatisation of Telekom, which this year of course is not and will, as I have already announced, begin in 2005. At the same time, of course, we have also agreed with representatives of civil society, such as communities and many individual initiatives, to extend this period. Why until December 7th? It is entirely wrong, as Member Sok concludes - it is necessary to know that the law will be passed in mid-July, will enter into force, say, July, the end of July, that these are holiday months and that the actual effective time to settle matters is only September, October and November. So it's real for three months of effective work, an effective time, in which something can really be done. And it seemed right for us to give a fair and fair time for what he was trying to do. Otherwise, Mr Sok will have the opportunity to vote against the law if he thinks that the beneficiaries do not deserve an additional deadline to find their documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. Apparently, colleague Sok is not satisfied with the answer and wants a supplement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u257	It's good that today this technique allows everything to be written down. This will still be the case, as you have stated here today. Of course I won't vote against it. But look, if someone hasn't found a contract by now, then you won't be able to find it in these three months. That's the first one. So the government didn't do everything to actually find those who didn't. If she exists somewhere, then I should have found her, unless she's gone. There's no hand to help. As for the fact that you say that new circumstances have arisen and that some natural persons have merged into legal persons, while legal persons are not legally entitled to recovery, you cannot resolve this again with a deadline. But if you want to solve this, you have to change the law. But you can't change the law because the law was voted on in a referendum and, of course, you're in a vicious circle. So, what the law says is that you're going to have to get rid of this as soon as possible, and these are the individuals who are waiting for it. That's why, of course, I believe that I've put this question so slightly provocatively, because I understand and believe that the government is gaining something in time and people somehow in the hazy perspective, and I don't know if it's going to end up the way those promises were made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u258	Thank you. Minister, would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u259	I didn't understand your question as a provocation. I'd like to warn you again. The circumstances are very different and require individual treatment, and this deadline was too short. If they're contracts, they'll meet. If there are other authentic instruments to prove that the individual beneficiary has contributed through the law of certain criteria to the construction of this network, such documents will come on a day-to-day basis and we will be able to take them into account. If there are no documents and there is no way not to search them in this way or in any other way, it is, of course, clear to everyone, you and I, that there is no country that could have given any funds to someone without actually showing any justification for it. That's perfectly clear. Once again, I would like to point out that this proposal is aimed at fulfilling the referendum decision as defined in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u260	Thank you, Minister Paula Gantar. I'll give you the word "magic." Janez Drobnič, who also has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Government of Dimovski, who is not present. You'll ask the question anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. I will ask the question because I would like to receive the oral answer of Minister Dimovski, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The question is this: Why is it that this year's pension allowance has not been adjusted for the same percentage as for those pensioners who have received a pension from former JLA officers, users of exceptional pensions, NOB fighters and other high-income pensioners? This year's Recreation Supplement is 12% and the Recreation Supplement for so-called labour pensions has increased by only 4.3% this year. It's obvious discrimination. I want an explanation and an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u262	Thank you. So I understand the answer to the next session. Let's keep asking questions. Comrade Jože Tanko has a question for the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u263	Thank you very much. In a few days, the first five-year housing savings scheme with slightly more than 20,000 savers will be released. According to the report on the implementation of the Housing Savings Scheme, a large majority saves them mainly for the purpose of regulating their own housing problems when it comes to the purchase of housing or the construction of a house. The Housing Fund and the Government have already promised a substantial increase in the construction of housing for the market and for the rental housing fund at the beginning of the implementation of this purpose. In the last five years, however, no increase in housing and housing supply has been observed. The consequences are more obvious, as the artificial excitement of unrealistic expectations of savers has led to a very high price hike in housing and housing, according to data over 40% in recent years. The fact that there is something wrong with housing prices also shows that the small amount of housing that is being built for the market cannot be sold. It is also clear from the data that the purchasing power of the population is lagging behind the price of housing, which means that the solution to most housing problems is being passed on to the future, this is to the new government. In particular, it is problematic that governments, municipalities and housing funds devote more attention to solving housing problems for the wealthy, but they do not pay enough attention to those most difficult to reach housing, such as workers, young families, disabled people, and similar categories. Not only is it extremely difficult for them to collect the necessary funds for their own apartment, but it is difficult to provide the funds for the payment of the security and even harder to pay their own participation. In short, it is more than obvious that the National Savings Scheme project is not successful and at least the institution is not capable of delivering housing policy objectives. I wonder: Why did the government not act despite the significant deviations found? And: In fact, what does the government intend to do to change this unsustainable situation on the housing market?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u264	Minister Kopač, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u265	Thank you. I have already answered the practically identical question of Mr Sok once today and, of course, I can say the same thing again to Mr Tank. You got yourself involved in contradictions, when you said no housing, and then you said, well, even what's built is not for sale. It can't be sold because construction is enough. The offer is bigger than the demand. There is, we can say, a problem, or a happy situation. Let me give you some information. Between 1991 and 2002, a total of 75,822 dwellings were built in Slovenia. This year’s construction and the second half of last year’s year’s construction is marked by a strong boom. The number of newly issued building permits and the number of dwellings that have begun to be built has risen rapidly, as shown by recent economic developments published by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The Housing Fund - you say the National Housing Savings Scheme was unsuccessful - with its offer of long-term savings, where the state offers a one-month premium to savers or banks where these savers enter into favourable contracts, it has engaged more than 80,000 savers. In the first round, the first five-year bond, when 22,000 savings deposits are released, will be marketed at 97 billion tolars. Huge money, which, of course, also finds an appropriate offer. This offer is therefore the offer of construction firms that invest or build apartments and, of course, the offer of a housing fund. The Housing Fund, as I mentioned earlier, has offered its offer a price anchor that has held back prices for these or similar apartments at the level set by the Housing Fund. In Ljubljana and the centre of Ljubljana, this is 130 euros per square meter. Only in the future; I hope that in a month or two, the Housing Fund will offer 800 new dwellings aimed primarily at mitigating possible pressure on additional demand resulting from a untied national housing savings scheme or a five-year package. Of course, that's not how your claims hold you. But when you mention, yes, we only solve the problems of those who can solve their own housing problems, let me tell you this. Between 1991 and 2003, we built a total of 3342 social dwellings and 4737 non-profit apartments, together with over 8,000 housing units for categories belonging to the new legal terminology between non-profit rentals and that this amount of newly built non-profit apartments per year also increases because the housing fund went into extensive engagement with municipalities where the municipalities gave land and the housing fund for construction. The Housing Fund has, I am sure, succeeded in mitigating or at least calming the major housing problems that have arisen in the past. But, of course, there are still a lot of open problems, but we are not hiding anything, but the fact is that we are actively solving them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u266	Thank you, Master Digger. Do you still want to ask for an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u267	Yeah, well, that would encourage me, I don't know, because you don't have to cut so hard, but then I have another question: Why, then, do we encourage something so intensely if we already have a surplus on the market and why do prices go up if there is too much supply on the market? I think there is something wrong with this housing market if, despite such a luxurious offer of apartments, prices are rising and prices have risen by 40% over the last few years. These are the data that analysts made. The following is also an extremely problematic area in relation to this residential work. We have considered the Income Act, where this individual relief, which was mostly used by citizens to pay credits, to invest in housing and housing, has been reduced by 33%. In short, we have closed down the very important part that citizens have invested in rebuilding the housing fund. After the second salary, we also did not do much, because the law that I proposed to special categories of people would allow additional support to obtain an apartment, such as young families, single parents, disabled people, it did not fall to favourable ground. In this area, where citizens could help themselves to mitigate this issue, we have done nothing. On the other hand, I am convinced that the ratio of savers is such that they will not be able to provide for themselves. And it also proves that they're retreating from [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] they do not take the national housing scheme and even the apartment offered because they do not have the option. [[...]] In short, something is offered which is extremely expensive and which is intended for superstandard solutions, but is not enough for the standard of citizens offered.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u268	Thank you. Minister Digger, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u269	I'm sorry, Mr. Tanko, but you're just saying some things you're saying. See, the national housing savings scheme has caused other banks to highly value their housing loans. That's what happened. Today, savings under the National Housing Savings Scheme are decided to borrow housing credit from other competing banks because they offer even lower interest rates than those agreed under the contract with the bank in which the application under the National Housing Savings Scheme is linked. We have achieved this through active policy. In short, we have substantially reduced interest rates on housing loans. That's the first success. Second, apartments are being built. Prices go up in elite locations. Throughout Slovenia, including Ljubljana, the housing fund has anchored the price anchor in smaller elite locations with its offer. And even a square meter of private housing in such areas, comparable areas, does not grow over the amount offered by the housing fund for its apartments. The fact is that we still lack rental apartments in Slovenia. That is why the Housing Fund has now gone into a more active policy of providing additional rental apartments. Of course, it can't be done overnight. Unfortunately, with the housing law that was passed during the Demos' government, we mostly put those few percent of the rentals we had in the ownership apartments. So today we are a country that has far from the least rentable housing among all European countries. That is why, of course, young people cannot do normal housing careers because everyone solves a housing problem in a way that they purchase. It's not the most common way. But if we want this to be not the usual way, of course we need to increase the share of rental apartments. We also do this with an active housing fund policy. But you have to understand that this doesn't work overnight. This is a structural problem that has been solved for many years. However, we cannot tell that we are not solving these problems and that we are not able to cope with our failures. Once again, of course, there remain a number of problems that will need to be solved in the future with an active policy. But we've enacted instruments and introduced them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u270	Thank you, Minister. One last question. He will be stopped by Dr. Jože Bernick to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Zdenki Cerar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, the Minister has already left! And in recent years, I've been through the Justice Minister, your predecessor, asking questions about post-war victims and the like. Of course, I was given very vague answers. If you look at the correspondence I received from Minister Biszak, I did not get a clear answer about any of this. Either that the police were still investigating, you couldn't say anything, the prosecutors hadn't decided yet, you never told me, because I didn't ask you what I'm sorry that you could look into these things if you were using Section 66 of the State Prosecutors Act. But one thing you said to me, very specific, and I asked you about it before, and I didn't get any answer from Bisak. You specifically say that in 2001 you called three legal specialists mentioned and explained the status of war victims or victims of Slovenian genocide. You have been told that these are civilians who do not fall under the protection of international provisions, etc. Now I really want to know: If it is true that you received these specialists, they must have given you a legal opinion. I'd like to get that legal opinion, as I asked you once before. In a civilised society, it progresses so that if you have an opinion, you can show it and then we can continue to discuss it. But it's so impossible, because I think it's just deception and it doesn't have any professional basis. So I ask you: Can I have this and when? At that time, however, you can also tell me why you still insist on what you decided four or three years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u272	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. The Minister of Justice has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick, maybe we didn't get along very well. In my written replies, I also reported that in November 2001, when the state prosecutors and I began investigating post-war killings together with the police, I had engaged three war law experts who had come to lecture the state prosecutors on various issues, on the different concepts that needed to be tackled in war crimes. For example, what war means, what armed conflict means, when someone is injured, when the status of a prisoner of war, a patient, and so on. These are the legal concepts contained in our criminal code in crimes, which we so say are referred to as unscrupulous war crimes. When we found with God and Tezne that the victims found in the tanks' ditches were Ustashas, the troops of the non-Slovenian territory, we had to define these concepts precisely in our request for judicial proceedings in order to meet the requirements of the offences. That is why we met with these concepts at the lecture of these three experts, who also explicitly stated that domestics under military law were members of the auxiliary police units of the German army, who were not entitled to special protection as prisoners of war, but were treated as civilians after the war. This was the opinion of these three experts, Dr. Anton Bebler, Dr. Vojko Bučar and Mag. Milan Brglez. These were just legal instructions that the prosecutors had just heard from them. If there had been any judicial proceedings concerning these killings, these legal problems would have become current. Since such proceedings were not brought before the court, of course, these legal concepts have not been tested and there has been no expert opinion, as you may have misunderstood. But I said it at the request of the Government Cemetery Commission then also to the members of this commission. It was also the only conversation I had about those concepts. Of course, this would be very current if any of the perpetrators of this inquiry were to be disclosed by the police and given a legal form by the police. At that time, however, it would be important whether the act was committed during war, war, or armed conflict, and the status of the victim. This is the framework in which we legally moved.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u274	Thank you very much for your answer. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u275	Thank you very much. You know, Madam Minister, this is a major crime, 10,000 and more people. And you, on the basis of what three people think, are going to set a course in which you will walk, because it is appropriate for you. If we were partisans, I'm sure you gentlemen would be judged differently. And you go on that basis to decide how these people will be treated. And he was treated like a civilian. They even wrote the victims of war, postwar executions and so on. Do you see what you've done with this? And what are you going to do? I absolutely disagree with what the gentlemen are saying, because I have the very acquaintances of such people. And the fact that you did it seems to me that it should come to court, because this is an abuse of your position. I thank you for your answer, but I am absolutely dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u276	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Would you like another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u277	Mr. Bernick, I just pointed out that we didn't use this interpretation anywhere. There is no legal definition in terms of an expert opinion, so we cannot say that anyone would abuse the situation. However, the legal debate has never meant an abuse of any position. Come on, please, let's split this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-14-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the questions of Members and Members, the answers of ministers and ministers. Proposals for a State assembly to discuss the response of the Minister or Minister tomorrow in the context of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for his cooperation and for his replies. I interrupt the agenda item and interrupt the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much for your cooperation and good night.
