ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear Members, fellow Members, distinguished Minister! Your Honors are here! I begin the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following fellow Members and fellow Members are absent: Dr Michael Brejce, Ferry Horvat, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Jožef Kavtičnik, Ivan Kebric, Milan Kopuzar, Dorian Marcič and Alojz Peterle. I'm moving to seven. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a legal person's income tax. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In this regard, a group of ten Members with the first-signed Dr Andrey Bajuk requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the government, the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, for the introductory explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Tax harmonisation within the European Union has so far been limited mainly to tax procedures and certain restrictions on facilitations, while in harmonising tax rates it applies only to certain excise duties. Thus, in the tax area, there is a tax competition between current and new members of the European Union and there are few prospects for this to change soon. The first key element of tax competitiveness is the total amount of taxes paid in the country and Slovenia is, according to the latest available data from 2001, below the average of the current EU member states with 39.7% of gross domestic product at 41.1% of the 15th. The five members have a lower relative scope of taxes, namely Portugal, Greece, Spain, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and ten higher. The lower relative scope is mainly the current members, who are more similar to Slovenia after their development. The reduction of this is, of course, important in terms of reducing budgetary expenditure. Another key element of tax competitiveness is the structure of taxes paid. Comparisons can be made in many different ways, but in terms of competitiveness for Slovenia there is a key comparison between the tax burden on labour and capital. If taken as an appropriate representation of the workload of the work of the Eurostat methodology, where it compares the share of taxes and contributions in labour costs to 67% of the average wage in the processing industry, then in 2002 Slovenia is around 40% strong over the average of the current 15th which has 37.8%. On average, Portugal, Greece and Spain have only 32.5% of the labour burden. The situation is reversed in the case of capital taxation, where, according to the latest comparable data for 2001, the share of the profit tax paid in the gross domestic product in Slovenia is 1.21% and 3.5% in the 15th. Only one country, Germany, had a smaller share of Slovenia in 2001, due to a strong economic recession. Slovenia also had one of the lowest actual, so-called effective tax rates on profit compared to EU members. It follows from the above, as well as from other data, that Slovenia is tax-free at work and very competitive in the taxation of corporate profits, but it has proved that such competition is not appropriate. Data on foreign investments in Slovenia and a study on the effects of so low profit taxation show that such a decision did not produce the desired results. On the other hand, the tax burden on work has proved to be very uncompetitive. They have already learned this from the government and Parliament and in 2003 increased the actual taxation of corporate profits to 12.7% by reducing tax reliefs. You have before you a proposal for a law on corporate income tax, which means the next phase by further reducing the benefits and increasing the actual tax rate at the estimated 17.8%, which is still lower or closer to the most competitive new members of our country, for example Slovakia with 19% without relief - Slovakia is the country that has gone to the most recently in tax competition. It is essential, however, that the increased amount of tax paid on the income of legal persons will be fully directed towards reducing the tax burden of work imposed by the proposal for a new law on income. However, the tax reliefs that remain in the proposal for a law on corporate income tax are substantially amended in the light of the current law. They are kept only for investments that typically mean an increase in value added, i.e. in production equipment, not in buildings, cars, office equipment and in particular for certain development equipment. Dear Members and Members, therefore, before you is the first of the tax laws aimed not only at complying with European directives but also at tax changes that will increase competitiveness [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the Slovenian economy of entry into the EU. [[...]] For these reasons, honourable Members and Members, the Government proposes that you take a decision in the proposal for a law suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Minister, for this introductory explanation, for the additional explanation of the bill. As this is a general debate, we will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Dr. Andre Bajuk for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the Income of Legal Persons, which, at the request of the Group of Members and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure today, has been the subject of a first reading, has long ago been announced by the ruling coalition as part of what they have so far called a tax reform and whose published objective is to increase the taxation of capital revenues and reduce the taxation of labour income. Despite widespread propaganda, it is only the fact that, in the context of the so-called tax reform, the government has so far submitted to the National Assembly only this proposal, together with the Income Act. However, from this point of view alone, namely that the government has ensured that the two laws intend to achieve common objectives, both proposals should be addressed at the same time by this State Assembly. On the other hand, the government itself recognises in its own explanations how both laws are linked to the urgent changes in the Tax Procedure Act, which is not in the procedure at all. By separating their treatment in the national assembly, the government is deliberately avoiding clear treatment or presentation of the objectives of the so-called tax reform. Let me add that the projected effects of the amendments in both laws are already planned in the budgets adopted for 2004 and 2005. In a country that respects the principles of transparent fiscal and budgetary policy management, both laws should be adopted before their effects are planned in the budget, i.e. before the budget is adopted. However, any major change in the tax system is not an abstract design, which should only be based on the models that economic knowledge has developed over the decades, but rather on the specific reality of a particular company, and in our case, the undeniable fact that Slovenia is still deeply involved in the transition process and that the transformation of social property, regardless of how it was planned, has actually caused a large concentration of capital in the hands of a relatively small circle of people who have become extremely rich and therefore also have a certain political power. And when we talk about the concentration of capital in Slovenia, we cannot, by means of a fact confirmed in international labour and capital comparisons, that Slovenia has the lowest rate of capital taxation and one of the highest rates of labour taxation. The objectives of the changes in labour and capital taxation after the end of the transition period should be based on an accurate documented analysis of the last ten years of the taxation period. The government should present to the general Slovenian public and, of course, to this national council changes in the distribution of assets or capital at the analytical system level, but this information was not available to the Slovenian economic academic profession or to the public. Let me add that Professor of Public Finance, Dr. Tina Stanovnik, commented with the words: "This is a scandalous and sad fact." Secondly, the Government should present an analysis of the distribution and concentration of income of natural persons. Although the profession has published some such analyses, it says itself that such analyses have their shortcomings because they are based on surveys on the use of households. Thirdly, the government should present a comparative analysis of the taxation of capital and labour in the Member States of the European Union and future members in order to assess the necessary fiscal changes with a view to maintaining and promoting the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Instead, we note that there are no fundamental data bases in the draft laws for the so-called tax reform that are available to this national assembly to assess the current tax policy and assess the situation, nor to assess the objectives that we want to achieve through the so-called tax reform. The Law on the Income of Legal Persons and the Income Act should be adopted in order to comply with European guidelines and to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The real tax reform is still ahead. An integral part of this tax reform is also the predicted change in additional health insurance to a social contribution that intends to impose even more on gross wages. It is therefore irresponsible, in our opinion, that the government has so far submitted proposals for changes to the tax regime as a tax reform. Tax reforms will not be carried out by a large coalition under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because in this case it would not be possible to preserve the protection of the transitional capitalists, who have become mainly in the grey or internal market and an unsupervised organised market with the fraud of small shareholders, allowing them to do so under the rule of Liberal Democracy, adopted legislation and non-functional supervisory institutions. What do we know about changes in ownership structure, equity and capital taxation in Slovenia during the transition period? Managers are already in the former social capital of companies with cca. 3.8% increased to at least 15% after the 2001 estimates. This 15% of the share of the capital held by managers does not include the ownership of the principally management layer in enterprises through the ownership of the PIDs or the funds created from them. Let me also mention that in these funds there is one percent of shareholders, higher issuers of certificates, which is 90% of the assets. We also have in Slovenia, as in Croatia or in Russia, great capitalists, who could be charged by Josef Stiglitz, a so-called transition tax, as proposed by Nobel Economist Josef Stiglitz. Of course, the Liberal Democracy and the United List will not do that. In his article published in our Finances on 15 December 2003, Nobel Prizewinner for Economics, Josef Stiglitz, warned at the time of the arrest of Russian typhoon Mikhail Hodorkovski that Russia should tax the capital gains of the oligarchs that had become part of the privatisation process of the former state capital. After Stiglitz, Russian oligarchs could also be taxed up to 90% of capital gains. On the contrary, he believes that Russia is threatening to turn capitalist oligarchs into political oligarchs and threaten the development of democracy. Taxes collected from capitalist oligarchs are intended to finance Russian health and education in Russia. Is there any similarity to Slovenia? An analysis of changes in the corporate capital ownership structure, which, when properly prepared for the so-called tax reform, the government should ensure that, according to our assessment, this would be confirmed in many ways. In its 2003 development report, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development published an analysis of the modified ownership composition of owned enterprises during the period 1994-2001. This is the only publicly published analysis that allows at least partial insight into the transitional concentration of capital. It showed that during that period the total equity share of the institutions of the State, the parastatal funds, the CAD and the SOD and the PID or investment funds decreased from 48.6% to 25.5% in total capital. At the same time, ownership of domestic strategic owners, shares of companies in other companies, of 25.5%, increased almost equally. These were purchased mainly from KAD and SOD, such as the Pivovarna Union, Pivovarna Laškoa. The ownership of domestic owners, that is to say employees and in particular former employees, pensioners, decreased from 40.2% to 24.8. The shares were sold primarily to the management leader, so their share of 3.8 went up to 15.5, as I mentioned. The study of Umar has shown, and it is also generally known that management structures have increased their share mainly in internal and grey markets where share prices have been strongly underestimated. This is common knowledge. However, shares and shares of unfair value have also been acquired in other ways that enabled them to implement and implement the transitional arrangements. The privatisation process therefore results in a significant increase in the ownership of the leading management of companies and domestic strategic owners, as the shares of both rose from 5.8% to 41%, making them the most important representatives of the capital elite. If the finding Dies that the management structure has a direct 15% share of the equity of owned enterprises, and this is data in 2001, and this has increased, translated or converted into a book value of capital of equity of enterprises at the end of 2002 to 2,551 billion, we get an estimate that managers today have about 400 billion book value of capital in owned enterprises. Since only a dozen of these companies are listed in the market market, it is not possible to assess the fair market value of this 400 billion book value of the management capital. PIDI, these are, of course, assessments, but the government, one that would truly support and rule the interests of all citizens, could document these assessments with accurate data, as they are available to institutions as a clearing company, AIPES and others. This analysis should therefore be ordered today by independent experts selected in the invitation to tender by this national assembly - this would be a decision, but of course it will not be adopted. As we know, in other countries, capital is taxed mainly in two ways, by taxation of capital gains and by taxation of dividends or taxes on the profits of their owners. And how do we tax capital gains in Slovenia? The majority of citizens have acquired huge assets in transition, their capital gains are taxed only on the sale of shares or the payment of shares and the replacement of capital within a period of less than three years, at a tax rate of 30%. For the sale of shares and shares of natural persons after three years, the capital gains are no longer taxed. So far, taxation of the capital gains of natural persons after three years at zero rates has been introduced with the aim of ensuring that citizens remain shareholders of the companies as long as possible and that the share of portfolio capital owners is not too high. As we see, these objectives have not been met, so there are no professional reasons at least to maintain such a liberal regime in the future. However, Slovenia is included in the countries which derive at least tax revenue from this source by taxing the capital gains of natural persons. In 2001, the total value of all income sources amounted to 2,469 billion tolars, of which only 64 million tolars of capital profit from the sale of shares or capital shares. And how much does Slovenia collect in total property taxes compared to other countries? In 2001, there were only 1.6 billion tolls of property taxes in income sources of 2469 billion, of which 64 capital gains were mentioned and the remaining amount was mainly a compensation for the use of building land. We must not forget that during the transition period we also had a massive privatisation of the social housing property, but that the country is collecting negligible income from capital gains. In 2001, 15 countries in the European Union averaged 2% of their gross domestic product taxes, the average of the OECD countries was 1.9%, while our country only collected 0.6% of their gross domestic product taxes, a third. Between developed OECD countries and transition countries, most of them have less favourable taxation of capital gains than Slovenia. Countries such as Sweden, Finland, Norway, France, Japan, Ireland, Hungary, Italy, Iceland have a uniform rate of taxation of capital gains, irrespective of the time of sale of shares or shares. After a certain period, capital gains are taxed at a lower rate in the United States, Great Britain and Spain. However, we also have countries that have a zero level after a certain period. For example, they are neighbouring Austria and Germany, but it must be taken into account and stressed that in these multi-century capitalist regimes, capital gains do not arise by damaging small shareholders in unsecured markets or by so-called initial capital accumulation, as was obviously the case in the last decade with us in Slovenia. A large coalition led by the Liberal Democracy has decided to maintain the current system of taxation of capital gains, with the sale of shares and shares after three years, the tax rate will continue to be zero and up to 30% by three years. This means, for example, that when Mr Jankovic sold his shares in Mercator at the rate of SIT - at least this is what some media report - if he were in Ireland or Finland, Sweden, Italy, etc., he would pay between 20% and 30% of the capital gains tax, but in Slovenia he will not, because he will, of course, wait three years for the sale. For example, the three-year period, as is well known, has already been used by Banka Koper’s shareholders, when they sold the shares to the Italian owner exactly three years after their cheap purchases. Their capital gains were then ten times higher than the purchase value of the shares. However, the price of shares was directly raised by Drnovskov's government when the public debt took over the loan of the Bank's largest commissioner, the General Sailing of Piran, amounting to 75 million U.S. dollars. This capital gain was donated to these shareholders by the government under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy, and in fact it has been placed on the shoulders of all taxpayers, current and future. So if we come from an assessment that managers in companies today have approximately cca. The 400 billion capital of bookkeeping value, and this capital, or its resulting capital gains, would still be taxed with a transition tax, as proposed today by the world's most established economist, Joseph Stiglitz, for example, for only 10% and not with the 90's as he proposes for Russia, could easily cover the entire cumulative public deficit of our health treasury, approx. 40 billion at the end of 2004. And if we also taxed the capital gains of the minority in the PIDs or the funds from them, with approximately the same amount of capital, we could cover a significant proportion of the deficits in other state-owned stores, such as the SPIZ. And what is the profit tax on doing business or dividends? We also find in the taxation of profit tax compared to other countries that in fact we also have the least burdened capitalists in this respect. We are severely lagging behind in the taxation of the profits of legal persons. In 2000, the share of corporate income tax in the 15 countries of the European Union averaged 3.8% of gross domestic product. The average share in OECD countries was 3.6 in us was 1.2. The nominal rate of profit tax is 25% for us, effective or effective taxationp only 12.4. While in less developed transition countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary averaged 15.7, in the 15th European Union on average 26.8%, i.e. more than twice as high as Slovenia. If we are not yet to compare ourselves with the developed countries, of course we have to deal with those who join us in the EU. In the transition decade in Slovenia, this profit is also from business, and not just capital gains, among the least taxed in international comparisons. And what is wage taxation compared to other countries? The burden of income from work is in Slovenia compared to the developed countries among the highest. The ten-year rule of the Liberal Democracy has brought Slovenia into a position to have wages among the most heavily burdened and most burdened. According to the OECD, Slovenia was classified in 2002 as one of the countries with the most taxed middle-class gross wages. On average, a productive worker in processing activities had to deduct 33.2% of the income earned to the State and the social security contribution remaining 66.8 from the gross earnings earned to the State and its net salary. In the EU, Denmark, Belgium and Germany are ahead of us, and behind us are all the other economically developed and also the transition countries. The average share of income and social transfers in gross wages reached 27.6% in the 15th EU and is therefore significantly lower than the wage burden of the Slovenian middle class. Even less taxed were salaries in four transition countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, where the average share of income and social contributions was 25.7%, not 33.6 in our country. The proposed Income Tax Act provides for a higher effective taxation of profits, a nominal rate of 25%, thus reducing incentives for investment investments in real estate, buildings, land. The government notes in its analysis that so far the real estate relief has not yielded the expected results and has not accelerated the development of activities with a higher added value. This finding by the Government, in principle or at an average level, is certain to be trusted, since so far the facilitation of investment investments has not been properly regulated, has been recognised to all companies, irrespective of the start of their activities, has not been linked to the creation of new jobs or to the growth of the scope of activities. The new companies, as even the government itself has reported, could not have benefited from this relief because they had not yet generated a profit for taxation and therefore we had a so-called neutral tax relief to invest in real estate. In fact, such tax relief arrangements have greatly benefited transitional capitalists, relatively large and also unjustifiable real estate tax reliefs, according to tax experts, have often been reduced by an effective tax rate also due to the abuse of such facilities, such as housing facilities, in practice, as a result of the lack of and non-professional supervision of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, tax reliefs in investments that remain under the new law or equipment should be linked to the actual establishment of new companies, to the opening of new jobs and to the expansion of income and profit activities. In setting up or developing new companies in activities with a higher added value, reliefs in real estate and not only in equipment may also be useful. In addition to this comprehensive and unconvincing investment relief, we keep it at 10% and the proposal contains a novelty in terms of promoting R & D investment, since the commitment under Article 49(2) may impose an additional reduction in the tax base of 10% of the investment in R & D equipment. It is precisely because this proposal is a novelty in our tax legislation that we expected that the government, in its explanations of the proposal, would not only give professional reasons for its decision to introduce such additional relief, i.e. to justify the specific features of this proposal which it has decided to propose to this national assembly. This is a matter of professional justification, which is of great importance in the light of the long experience of other countries, and why we seek them in vain in the explanations given by the government in its proposal to this National Assembly. Moreover, the explanation given is shorter than the second paragraph of Article 49 itself, which introduces this relief. In a rather extensive analysis published by the OECD last year, we find that as many as 18 Member States of these organisations have fiscal incentives for research and development. However, many of them are introducing certain reforms into their already existing systems and mechanisms with the aim of increasing their effectiveness, which has not always been in line with expectations. On the basis of this analysis, there is a legitimate question why our government has decided to propose as a basis for this additional facilitation a certain part of the investment in equipment needed for research and development, and not the current expenditure as used in all 18 OECD countries with fiscal incentives for this purpose. Of course, some additionally include investments in expenditure, that is to say, expenditure on equipment. Let me add an interesting picture of this analysis, namely that so-called current expenditure represents around 90% of all R & D expenditure. Why did the government decide to invest only 10% in equipment? On the other hand, the question arises why the government in this case proposes a reduction in the tax base, a deduction before the tax base or "taxa lawens" and not a reduction in the tax liability "tax credit". Countries in the OECD that have used in practice a mechanism to reduce the tax base for these reliefs shall decide to reduce the tax liability. There is also a question of why the government has decided to reduce the tax base of 10% of investment in R & D equipment over a certain period and not part of the additional expenditure above the average of the last years or an incremental approach, such as in the United States, France, Japan, Mexico and Korea. Of course, there is a third option: a combined partial write-off system of investments or just a write-off of additional investments over a certain average, such as Australia, Austria, Spain and Portugal. The government did not explain why it did not include any differentiation in its proposal for certain companies, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, such as practice in many OECD countries. Or certain activities, such as partnerships between companies and public research institutions and universities. Experiences in OECD countries are rich in these areas and in Nova Slovenija and Nova Slovenija we cannot accept the government proposal until professional justification is presented to us and the general public. The explanations of the government proposal also completely disregard the analysis of the expected effectiveness of the proposed tax incentives compared to direct subsidies, which is also a widespread practice in OECD countries. However, the empirical research mentioned in the OECD comparative analysis shows that tax incentives for research and development may on average increase the company’s R & D expenditure for the sum of approximately the same as for the resulting tax fall. An analysis of 19-year data in 9 OECD countries showed that 10% of the tax subsidy for R & D was only a 1% increase in these expenditure in the short term, while in the long term it almost achieved this surplus but did not exceed 10%. In Canada alone, empirical analyses have shown that one dollar of R & D relief has caused $1.38 for such expenditure in companies that have used these facilitations. However, we must note that the Canadian system is in many ways different from the government's proposed scheme of tax reduction and reliefs represent 13.3% of the total expenditure of R & D companies not being 10% invested in equipment and operating in combination with direct subsidies representing 22.7% of the total expenditure of R & D companies. In 2001, the Belgian Minister of Finance's Financial Policy High Council proposed the lifting of all concessions in this area, including in order to ensure the neutrality of the tax system. If the government does not give professional reasons for its proposal, the Coalition Slovenia will propose the deletion of Article 49, paragraph 2. The proposed Income Tax Act extends the tax base from the existing taxable profit to other types of income, with other sources of income - Article 8 proposed, which is of course necessary and also requires the harmonisation of the law with the guidelines of the European Union. However, it is important to stress that the concepts defining these sources are not sufficiently clearly defined and that if such provisions were adopted, they would lead to difficulties in implementing the new law. Any source of income should be - this is the term - the law should specify precisely. The news brought by the new law in the calculation of the income tax is yet another thing. In this general debate, it is only necessary to point out that the law leaves too many matters to the regulation of sub-legislative acts. Despite the fact that, due to the current regulation and its repeal by the Constitutional Court and the various treatments of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia of the Administrative Court, there are a number of problems in taxing profits in practice, such as the identification of business and non-business costs prior to the determination of a taxable profit. That is why, Mr Finance Minister, we expect you to contribute to the public presentation of opinions on this law as well as the law on income in the National Assembly being joined by representatives as widely as possible by the professional public. At the end of the citizens and citizens, let us also make it clear that the large coalition led by the Liberal Democracy with the Income Act and the Income Act does not in fact propose a tax reform to tax capital more heavily and to relieve the middle class of employees who carried and still bear the heavy burden of this transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. I give the floor to Leopold Grošl for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, advisors to the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we foresee that the drafters of the law have taken into account the necessary changes to the law, which are identified by the problems identified in cases of tax controls that are so general or unconscionable that they allow the tax authority to interpret and thus apply them differently in practice and that we are often reminded of by the economic operators concerned and of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the legal security of taxable persons. The amendment of the Law on corporate tax after 2002 regulated the provision of legal certainty for taxable persons by respecting constitutional principles and making it clear from the law what the State requires of a taxable person. Other lessons from the period of implementation of the corporate tax system, which are also linked to respect, the release of investments and capital concentrations, the high mobility of capital and the development of new technologies, also require adjustments to the corporate income tax system in order to protect the tax base. It is appropriate to renovate some of the institutions already introduced, in particular the definition of the debtor, business units, residents and the like. The consideration of that law should also take into account a very important reason for issuing a new law, which is the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to align the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal system of the European Union. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that only addressing the comprehensive tax package could allow prudent and professional and politically acceptable solutions, as this is a difficult and sensitive reform, especially since it is to be adopted in the last year, this is in the electoral year. However, the need for reform cannot be linked to the mandate of the legislative body. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that it is possible to initiate the adoption of tax legislation also on the basis of substantial fundamental grounds for issuing a new law, as stated by the bill-maker. However, we are aware that it is impossible to expect Members and Members not to compete in the electoral year with proposals for various facilitations and with a review of the systemic aspect of equality of the debtors, as different warnings are already running in this direction. Given that the law at first reading, which means that there will be plenty of time for individual suggestions, however, we have also drawn up certain views or comments in the UK Group on the proposal for a law on corporate tax, which the applicant should examine and, of course, take due account of our conviction. In this way, I would like to express some of our views, in particular Article 10, which also refers to individual legal provisions regarding the subject matter under taxation. However, it should be mentioned here that the drafter of the law provided in this article that the tax year could be the same for a business year. In doing so, the condition should be laid down that the taxable person must apply the tax treatment of legal persons' incomes for seven years. It is our position and therefore I am also making this proposal that time should be limited to five tax years. Second. Our concerns also refer to Article 13; these are tax bases for business between connected persons, residents. We propose that the first paragraph of Article 13 be supplemented in the sense that the opposite option is also taken into account. That is why, of course, we also propose that this new text of Article 1 should also be read - I will quote: "In determining the income and expenditure of employees and debtors, residents connected to persons, the tax base does not increase, is added or reduced. Where a reduction or increase in the tax base in one taxpayer is added, the same increase or reduction of the tax base in the other taxpayer is added in relation to a particular business between them and such determination of income and expenditure does not result in a reduction in the overall tax effect." In fact, we estimate that this supplement is needed mainly because of a clearer and even more unambiguous explanation, since in practice today there have been many cases where the tax authority on the basis of the same transaction increases the income of one taxpayer while at the same time failing to increase the expenditure of another taxpayer, which results in double taxation. We were also reminded of this by individual tax advisers. We also have some concerns about Article 15 of the Act, which speaks of interest between connected persons. In determining the recognised interest rate, the applicant provided that it was also necessary to take into account the loans received by the resident of the Republic of Slovenia and abroad and that a recognised interest rate should be fixed for each foreign country or group of foreign countries. While we can be sure that this can also be regulated by a sub-legislative act, it is a sub-legislative act to be laid down by the Minister, but until it is undoubtedly written and recorded in the law, we believe that this part of Article 15 should be clarified, so that we have a coherent and understandable Article 15. We also have a point of view in Article 26, which is the part where in paragraphs 7 and 8 it is also necessary to decide how to proceed if a resident acquires an old basic asset from a connected and unrelated person who is a resident. In paragraphs 7 and 8, only cases are currently settled where the underlying asset is obtained from a connected or unrelated person who is not a resident. Well, we believe that paragraphs 7 and 8 should also be approximated textually, as they are now written very unusually and also difficult to understand. Indeed, we also take into account the fact, or the position of the Ministry of Finance, that this proposal could not somehow be taken into account, because it is precisely by the proposal of the law that it means what is written down and that the general provision applies to residents, but as far as we take a closer look at these general provisions, we can see that there is no place to see anything similar to what is settled for non-residents, which is why we believe it is necessary to write this into the law itself. We also have a suggestion, even in the light of Article 49, that is in that part of the law which speaks of tax incentives for investment and also for innovative activity. Well, the fact is that this text of the law also takes account of economic preferences in these tax incentives for investment, an additional 10% reduction in the tax base for investment in R & D equipment, but it is precisely in this relief that we think it is necessary to listen to the economy too, because it is to be achieved that this relief is too narrow. Research and development are only part of the whole innovation process, and therefore the existing same tax incentives should also make it possible to invest in equipment that is also dedicated to innovation. Therefore, we also propose that, in preparing for second reading, Article 49, paragraph 3, which states that the taxable person may apply an additional reduced tax base in the amount of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the amount invested in R & D equipment has also been added to the words 'and innovation'. [[...]] In fact, in practice, we also find that these innovations have, in fact, been the focus of only the inter-ministerial economic chambers, all the other institutions, either regional development agencies, and not least theirs is a side issue, and therefore we consider that one of the biggest development problems of the Slovenian economy is also the overly modest share of innovative companies and an extremely small share of innovative and technological and demanding export products and services. We believe that we need to make use of these options or all possibilities in all areas in order to improve the situation. Well, and also, if I comment briefly on paragraph 52, a donation relief. Here in the first paragraph of Article 53, when we talk about this percentage reduction in tax base 0.2, I think we need to think. Our proposal is to trade it for 4.9. In fact, why? We also explain our point of view because we believe that it is necessary to stimulate taxpayers to devote money as set out in the first paragraph for both charitable, humanitarian and other similar purposes. However, the proposed reduction of the tax base by 0.2 and 0.3 of the tax revenue is unstimulating. Indeed, we believe that a 5% reduction in the tax base would also contribute to the allocation by taxpayers of more resources for the purposes set out in this Article. Well, the Ministry of Finance is somehow in the position that this is unacceptable, but we believe that we cannot rely solely on the mathematical calculation of these donations, because we cannot assume that all taxpayers will devote their funds to donations, and we are particularly guided by this finding by the fact that we do not even have data on the extent to which this relief has been used to date. I think that far from this option, because some people sometimes forget about humanitarian, charitable and also other organisations that might be able to devote part of their income to these types of activities. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, of course, we note that the proposal for a law on income tax and legal persons is a suitable basis for further consideration and that is why we will also vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thanks, buddy Groschel. Janez Podobnik will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to quote as an introduction to my debate the thought of a very good comment in the last Ali, Dr. Mark Kos, which has the title "Generation Conflict, Today's Event". And so he wrote, "The political imagination reaches us only until the elections, everything outside this horizon is empty." End of quote. Political analysts, as well as the experience of coalitions, are subject to the following rule, so that, as a rule, tax changes are not proposed in the last year of operation of each coalition. This is why, in our view, the Slovenian People's Party has been very bold, and also politically speaking, the courageous decision that the government coalition has decided to implement the commitments of the coalition treaty only in the last year of its operation. The Slovenian People's Party will play an active and substantive role in this area. Also in the proposal for a law on corporate income tax, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, in close cooperation with the expert group that we have established in the parliamentary group for tax legislation, has been very active all the time. In our parliamentary group, we have constantly assessed that this tax, i.e. a tax on the income of legal persons, which could also be called a corporate tax, is one of those instruments that will succeed Slovenia in the European Union's Member States' round of positions as a country with a neutral and at the same time an enabling and friendly tax environment. The starting points of the Slovenian People's Party before the tax reform were and are still today that corporate income taxation must enable and encourage private initiative, that is the first. Second, high performance and capacity of the Slovenian economy. Finally, contribute to the creation of new jobs. This is not the last, but it should practically be one of the central guidelines and at the same time bear greater added value. We estimate that the income tax on legal persons is those measures of States and tax policy which, in compliance with the basic principles of the prohibition, can contribute significantly to the further development of the economy by allowing tax competitiveness between countries and respecting the Code of Conduct in the field of corporate taxation. Despite the reduction or restrictions on the granting of State aid. By means of a well-thought-out system of corporate taxation or taxation, we would like to assist in the implementation of all four freedoms at European Community level and, on the other hand, to relieve the economy of its tax obligations, in order to allow for further highly specialised economic development on the one hand, and to enable job creation on the other. Specific tax treatment would also be given to those entrepreneurial sectors that would work towards a more environmentally variable mode of production and management and would increase jobs. Of course, we must be aware that our new system of taxation of corporate income needs to take more into account the primary and already secondary legislation of the European Union, as several directives need to be taken into account in this regard. This also makes it possible to apply the fundamental principles of European integration, the four freedoms. This also means giving up the national tax base. This is a reality that, unfortunately, we can't go through anymore. In our opinion, the proposal for a law on corporate income tax before us today is sufficient for most of our expectations and views, as well as for the requirements of European Union legislation. At the same time, it solves some of the major shortcomings of the current system, as we all know that the current law on corporate tax has reached the Constitutional Court several times before. We believe, however, that the proposal of this law is not yet fully in line with certain objectives. Here we focus on the objectives of the Lisbon European Council summit, which has set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic, knowledge-based economy by 2010. It is precisely for these purposes that we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party the introduction of tax reliefs for R & D equipment. The Special Working Group of the Directorate-General for Research Activities of the European Commission has prepared a report on tax incentives for companies to invest in R & D activities, R & D activities. The objective at European Union level is to achieve the investment of the economy in R & D activities by 2% of gross social product by 2010. The Commission has thus recommended that Member States, as well as the new Member States, should, in accordance with their obligations, pay attention to tax relief in favour of R & D activities in order to facilitate their economies' efforts to step up innovation activities. This is what a colleague from the United List of Social Democrats spoke about before me. The Commission estimates that without a strong increase in R & D investments, the European economy cannot count on improving its competitiveness vis-à-vis other global economic factors, in the first place to the economy of the United States. We are therefore pleased in the Slovenian People's Party that such a relief has also been introduced in the proposal for a law on corporate income tax on our initiative. Our efforts in the future will go in the direction that, in line with the recommendations of the already mentioned Commission of Work, we will be able to give these reliefs such a weight that they will truly encourage the economic sector to move faster and to improve development. We are already preparing some amendments in this direction in the parliamentary group. Only in our view will such development bring Slovenia closer to the average of the European Union, which is our short-term objective. In this way, in our view, it will enable faster economic growth, as we estimate that the key direction of our country is possible to the left of those production segments that have high added value and are above all backed by knowledge. In our view, however, facilitation for R & D equipment is crucial. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party we also assess that it would be right to do everything possible to eliminate or at least optimally reduce the economic double taxation of dividends. The legal profession here states that the civil law separation of a legal person from an economic entity and a natural person, an associate, a shareholder, cannot have consequences in the tax system as well. In our view, it is more or less one organism which must be dealt with together. This means that the tax paid on the income of an economic operator must be taken into account at the level of the shareholder, shareholder and natural person. Thus, the legislator has different tax integration systems, both at the level of the economic operator and at the level of the shareholder, which, in part, do not take fully into account that the tax is paid from the same economic substance, profit. First, the profit tax is paid and then the income tax is paid. I will not say too much if I tell my fellow Members here in public that we have discussed very much in the context of the drafting of the law in the government coalition. We have not fully managed to convince the billmakers, but we will continue to do so. We will only insist on the basis of arguments. We estimate that both draft laws, both the Law on corporate income tax and the Income Act, do not address this issue well and that we will therefore give all the necessary attention to this law and the law on income further. Our views will also be presented in the form of prepared amendments. Finally, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I can assess that the proposal for a law on corporate income tax constitutes an appropriate basis for further consideration and will be supported by the Group of Members. Compared to the current law, the bill is modern and theoretical and practically acceptable. We will also work for certain amendments to the proposal before us, in particular in the direction which I have already mentioned in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Jože Tanko is given the floor for the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. The government has announced that, with the changes it will make in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and in the Income Act, it will substantially redistribute the tax burden in order to substantially increase the taxation of capital revenue and reduce taxation of labour income. In short, she announced a tax reform. However, what the Government is proposing to us will not achieve these objectives sufficiently and is in fact a clear manoeuvre in which the government is just about to expire, enthusiastically offering something that it will not even be possible to verify in its mandate. The effects of the changes in taxpayers will be verified only after the elections. And in fact, it is a media game of the ruling coalition with voters, with whom the government wants to take a picture of care, seriousness and responsibility. By promising greater tax fairness and equality and a fairer redistribution of tax burdens, he wants to satisfy as many people as possible. The government has been fighting for the attention of those it has forgotten, played them, and abused their trust. It also acted because it did not provide the expected legal certainty because it did not act and prevented a number of scandals, because there are no criminal and indemnity proceedings against participants in financial scandals where huge amounts of public and private money have disappeared. None of the frauds in Orion, Secura, Kranjska Custodiana, in housing and lending affairs will certainly receive tax relief or tax write-off, which could at least partially compensate for the loss of their savings because of the cancellation of the rule of law. However, the write-offs can be relied on by the selected companies, since the government, on the basis of the powers of the State assembly, can write off the outstanding and unpaid obligations, without the need to inform either the national assembly or the public of the so-called tax confidentiality. The Government, which carries out its task in a serious and responsible manner, shall not undertake such a project, such as tax reform, at the end of its mandate. It prepares the reform at the beginning and also implements or implements it in its serious work in practice so that citizens can see and verify the effects, the real effects of assessments and forecasts and the responsible government is looking for a majority political consensus or consensus in tax reforms. This happened recently also in Germany when Schroeder's government coordinated with Germany's largest opposition party. However, since the proposed tax changes proposed by the government do not have the character of reform changes, and these are necessary, the future government will have to implement tax and fiscal reforms. We already know today that the current tax policy is not appropriate, because it places too much burden on wages and too little income on capital. Since the government has predicted that this is a reform, we have rightly expected a much more analytically supported basic tax law with a quality comprehensive analysis of the effects of the current and future system, with a comparison of tax burdens with EU or OECD countries or with accessions, both following the present and proposed arrangements. It is not enough for the Minister to attach a presentation to Germany, Denmark and Austria. The real cost of taxation of capital income and income from work in Slovenia over the past ten years would require economic indicators showing and assessing the distribution of tax burdens. The Minister of Finance should, in serious respect of the announced objectives of the tax reform before the adoption of the 2004 and 2005 budget, submit to the National Assembly a document which would fully demonstrate the tax effects. However, it has not done so, although the effects of these two laws, which we are dealing with only now, have already been foreseen in the budgets, which is actually a very prophetic act. However, I must point out that all the key laws that had a direct impact on the budget have always been adopted before the adoption of the budget of the current year. Usually at the same meeting, and what has happened now points to the powerlessness of the minister, for he has succumbed to politics and higher goals, particularly the Liberal Democracy. Reform is a word under which we represent important substantive changes, but this proposal obviously does not represent this, since under the cover of a large and resounding word, reform only conceals the need to comply with EU tax law and with a seven-year-old decision of the Constitutional Court imposing on the government to increase tax reliefs to the socially weakest class of taxpayers for income. It took seven years for the government to comply with this decision, which has a significant impact on humanity and constitutional protection. In some other cases, however, the same government is much more active. However, if we do not bring tax legislation into line with the European legislation by 1 May this year, we will be the first day of accession of violators of the European legal order in a very important area of taxation. In short, the deadlines are short and it is not possible to expect an in-depth debate or even significant changes. While the amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons are not reform objectives, we can be sure, last but not least, of the stated basic objectives for the issue of this law in its explanatory statement: the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia following the alignment of the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia with the EU acquis, other aspects of the adjustment of the system for the taxation of legal persons for the release of international capital and financial flows and the need to change certain solutions due to new knowledge in the implementation of domestic financial and other legislation. In short, nothing reformable. In the last 10 years, a transition or property transformation has been carried out. The former social property was distributed. The vast majority of the common wealth of this country was owned by law and by the late non-regulation of the capital market, in fact, suppressed into the hands of the former political-economic oligarchy, this is said to be the same, a party province that has occupied all the leading positions in all major companies and institutions after independence. It may not be too much to recall that the transition or property transformation was set up and for a longer period also led by the then State Secretary of Mags. Tone Rop. As Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Rop also led the pension reform in the period 1997/2000, which made the situation worse for pensioners worse, and, at the end of 2000, as Minister of Finance, he was also working on the adoption of a law under which pensioners were deprived of one pension. And the reconciliations that followed were much lower than they should have been if they were to maintain real value. Nor has the current government proposed a very large number of solutions to facilitate the lives of pensioners and align their incomes with overall growth, and less has it done to promote the creation of new jobs. This could be done with an appropriate tax policy. It is not necessary to stress that since the acquisition of huge transitional assets, successful managers have become rich practically overnight, when a miracle has occurred to them and paid almost nothing to that country. Nouns move in their world and are subject to specific standards and exceptions in legislation. Between all the countries of the European Union and the OECD and the transition countries, we have exactly the lowest capital gains tax and collect the smallest share of capital gains in total tax revenues or the smallest share of these revenues in GDP. It is clear that this process of property transformation and concentration of capital in the hands of the narrow circle of modern success could only take place with the close cooperation of government parties. It was directly through the government or through the parastatal funds that government parties carried out human rights movements, i.e. through political affiliation and loyalty, that they closely monitored the processes of concentration of ownership, merger and strategic integration of companies in the hands of few managers and members of the supervisory boards. Alternating events in one function or another are also very common. In short, government clients have created or made possible a series of networks that have immeasurably seized former common property. Most citizens, however, had to know each other as they knew and knew each other. How much do current managers have in possession of the former social property today after ten years. With this information, we should actually be provided by the Finance Minister Dr. Marble to justify or assess the current first objective of tax reform, namely: How will the tax burden of capital increase? However, because the government has not given us this information, let me answer this question with public information and assessments. At the time of ownership, managers in companies had 3.8% share, now above 15% or about 400 billion. Since almost four times or 400% of the capital increase could not come from purchases of savings from wages and normal business profit allocations alone, they also came in other ways, especially to those that the old capitalist economies do not know. In addition, the concentration of former social capital was also carried out in the PIDs or in the resulting financial holding companies and investment funds. Upon the ownership of the companies, the IDs acquired 20% of the company's social capital. And it's got about a million citizens with their certificates. Today, however, it is estimated to be 15% or around 400 billion. However, according to information made publicly available by Slovenian economic experts, about 90% or about 360 billion of this share is owned by only 1% of the PID shareholders or their legal and economic successors. That's about 10,000 citizens. Undoubtedly, the concentration of ownership in the former PIDs could have been achieved due to changes in the legislation and tactics of both the United Nations and the Liberal Democrats. In short, very few citizens own about 760 billion assets, which is about four times more than the appropriate consumption of Slovenian municipalities for their annual marriage obligations. It's huge. We must not forget, however, that these restructurings have also resulted in large acts of small shareholders, due to the unpunished misappropriation of the company law. It is also necessary to recall the first capital gains made by the lucky owners to the burden of the state of the rehabilitated banks and could also be listed. In the past ten years, therefore, the minority has earned huge capital gains without paying the capital gains tax. In our case, this tax is paid only if the owners of the shares and shares are sold earlier than within three years. However, if they are sold after the expiry of three years, there is no tax on the sale of shares and shares at all. And such cases in the world are rare and unusual. Such an unusual arrangement, despite the reform, continues to be maintained by the government of Rob, which means that all our modern capitalists who own the previously mentioned billions of capital will be sold peacefully after the end of three years without paying the capital gains tax. Although in the most important area of taxation, the state retains privileges, this non-amendment of government sells under the concept of reform and from privileges to the purchase of politicians is less than a step. Untaxed capital gains are also surprised by economists around the world. Nobelovac Štiglic specifically suggested that Russia tax such oligarchs and thus deprive them of part of the transitional profits of the capital increase that they had acquired in purchasing shares and shares of state capital at an adjusted or even unfair price and that the State should devote these taxes to education. Of course, something like this is not expected in our reform. Additional resources to cover large deficits could therefore be obtained by taxing transitional capital gains. However, since these added resources will in fact not be available, the government will not be able to relieve wages or labour costs at the time of current public consumption, and even after this so-called tax reform, Slovenia will remain among the countries where the most taxed salaries and other labour costs are incurred. Minister Rob and some ministers in the public are saying that an increase in general income relief will relieve the lowest income class and, as a result, a few medium-sized layers. However, as a result of the increase in the generally recognised relief in the minimum class, the burden will be slightly lower, but there will be significantly fewer commitments in the lower class. The wages of those who have at least secondary education will be much more burdened. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the tax relief law should regulate the real estate more selectively and only those activities that we want to develop. They can also be useful, and they can also be useful facilities for investing in real estate in these cases. However, consistent and professional tax supervision is also important in achieving the effects of these benefits. The government proposes an increase in the effective rate of profit tax with a proposal that could have been prepared without any effort from the tax experts of the Ministry of Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the professional public to contribute to this law's public presentation, because we believe that certain provisions of the law, in particular in defining the dissemination of sources of taxable income, are not sufficiently clear. However, I hope that these data and the relations I have mentioned will also find a response in the public and will also contribute to more rational and more concrete tax changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thanks, buddy Tanko. Bogomir Vnučec is next in line for position. Marko Diaca will hand it over. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u12	Nice greetings to all present! We have been listening to the Government about the necessity of tax reform since the beginning of the mandate, and we are now facing the end of the process of changing tax laws as per the current lane. Major changes are promised under the Income Act and also the Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons that we have before us brings a lot of news. Therefore, the general treatment of the law makes sense because in this sensitive area, just before Slovenia enters the European Union, we cannot afford the adoption of a law that would later prove to be poor and not achieve the objectives set. The question is how relevant it is. From all statements made by government representatives, we can understand the Government's intention to relieve personal taxes and replace this revenue outflow with capital taxes. Of course, we agree with this, but it also requires a great deal of reason. A complete madness would be a simple replacement of expected lost income from income reform by additional burdening the profits of businesses right now when we enter the European market. The company is expected with fear on May 1st and is expected to have a changed external environment of management and thus even more acute competition. Although the proposed law maintains the same rate of taxation, the tax base is substantially expanding, which will significantly increase the tax burden on businesses. At the same time, it limits the possibility of facilitating businesses by substantially reducing their investment incentives. Investments are a generator of business growth and, without investment, Slovenian companies will lose in competition in the common European market. We believe that there is a need for further reflection before this decision, as meeting the financial needs of the country at the expense of the exhaustion of Slovenian companies cannot and must not be the goal. It is knowledge and innovation that can bring competitiveness to businesses, so that they can also achieve growth in Europe and, above all, development, and only such companies will be able to employ new workers, that the public budget has finally been filled by paying taxes. The old Slovenian proverb says, "don't slaughter the chicken that carries the golden eggs." And by limiting the incentives for companies' investments, we do just that. The views are that the chapter of the tax relief requires concrete reflection. The rates referred to in the first paragraph, and in particular in the second paragraph of Article 49, refer to the facilitation of the invested amount for research and development, are absolutely too low. Research and development are the source of the competitive advantage of companies, and we would have to encourage them not to restrict them. If we look at only cases in the European Union, we can see that we are like a country on the tail of those who invest in research and development and should see an example in the Finnish and Irish models. In this part, we absolutely disagree with the proposed law in the Young Slovenia Party. In our view, it is also incomprehensible to see Article 52 of the Law, which deals with the facilitation of donations. Modern corporate policy theory also speaks of so-called DOP, corporate social responsibility. With this law, companies that are willing to help already poor areas such as culture, humanitarian, charitable, scientific, educational, ecological and, above all, sports are penalised. At this meeting, we are also dealing with two laws that will affect the employment of persons with disabilities, the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act and the law that we have before us. While the first law includes provisions to promote the employment of persons with disabilities, this effort to propose a law on the taxation of the income of legal persons completely destroys. Disability as workers is particularly protected and cannot be easily forgiven. What on the one hand seems to be social justice and humane, on the other hand, discourages businesses for their employment. This bill also removes the tax credits that companies have had in the event of a disabled person's employment. Therefore, why should the company employ disabled persons if it does not benefit from this, rather restrictions. Therefore, we are not doing any good to this disabled job-seekers, rather the other way around. Employment of disabled persons is, in particular, a restriction and not an advantage for the employer. The disabled will constitute an unforgivable workforce and tax credits will not be granted. We will not support the proposed law at first reading in the Young People's Party, but we expect that the applicant will examine the comments and include them in the draft law before the law is examined on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you, Marco Diaci. Mag. Blaž Kvačič, position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u14	Your Honor! The Law on corporate income tax is the first draft law in the tax package of laws to reform the tax system. The basic orientation of the reform of the tax system seems clear and good, as we see it, in order to achieve a wage-tax burden and thus to contribute to improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The next focus is on unloading the economically weakest segments of the taxpayers, then increasing the tax burden mainly in terms of increasing the number of taxpayers, particularly in areas where taxation has not covered well enough so far. Therefore, the importance of taxes on property and taxation of more tangible layers should be increased. It continues to be aware of the proposaler's tendency to support the implementation of economic policy in terms of supporting investment in knowledge and increasing the average and aggregate added value through a targeted approach to tax relief - here I am referring to the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. We support such guidelines at the LDS. In addition, we would like to add that we are convinced that tax legislation must be very strongly directed in the same direction as, for example, at this meeting of the National Assembly at first reading, the adoption of a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Tax legislation should therefore also contribute to the assessment of the Slovenian entrepreneurial environment for a friendly, efficient, administrative, simple, in short, enabling the existence and development of economic operators. This is an urgent need for a positive and intensive dialogue between our government's various resources. Further guidance, i.e. the gradual transformation of our tax system into a more typical European tax system, is to be supported, as certain types of taxes have a significantly higher role for us, such as salary tax and payroll, and many other types of taxes have a significant underweight in the tax ruling, such as property taxes. So far, trends suggest an orientation in this direction, because if we look at this relationship dynamically, Slovenia, compared to the European Fifteen, in 1999, had around 34% of the share of corporate income tax in gross social product, it is said that this index, which is supposed to be 100, was 34 in this case, but in 2002 this index rose from 34 to 40, it is said to be a positive trend. A similar positive trend can also be seen in the corporate income tax as a percentage of all tax revenues. If we had index 32 here in 1999, this index rose to 45 in 2002, it is said that there are some positive developments in this area. In the proposal as presented, however, we also see certain potentials for improvement, and in some cases the risks that would be well avoided in the follow-up process. It will probably be necessary to see the full functioning of all the rules that make up the tax package, all the laws that consist of the tax package, although we must all be aware together of the fact that a very important part of tax practice is entrenched in the rules of law and, of course, for all those who want to help build a positive institutional environment in the Slovenian economy, it is very important that the acts of law are also directed in the spirit of law, which, of course, must address all the essential issues that do not lead to too wide an interpretation that can sometimes be contrary to the spirit of the law itself. Thus, only by looking at the whole package will we be able to gain insight into the tax burden of all entities, the process of determining tax debt, tax collection, information flow and tax control. The scope of tax relief is particularly important. Further drafting of this law and related other laws should take a broader view than taking into account the positive and negative experience of the current operation of tax reliefs. Even the dilemma could open up whether it might be more transparent and encouraging to slightly reduce the general rate of taxes and eliminate tax evasion. Why is such reflection at least partly justified? Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have special importance in our tax area. When we look at how the share of the tax on the profits of small, medium and large legal persons moved, we see that the participation of small enterprises increased from 25.6 to 30.8% in the period 1996 to 2002. This very information, combined with qualitative data, is that micro and small businesses are the most vital part that can react as quickly as possible, opening jobs, of course, opening up the prudence of the dilemma, whether our legislation is in some direction that is acceptable to such small entities. In fact, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have in practice a general problem of inspections of tax evasion for purely formal reasons and may then have a completely different, negative effect in the final instance, such as the basic purpose of the legislator and the executive branch. For micro, small businesses, of course, it is completely understandable that they cannot be so focused on a high level of formalisation of business, but, of course, they must be logically more focused on business content alone. At the same time, of course, there is a very typical situation that there are very many problems in tax control procedures in this particular segment of our economy. It would also be useful to stress the importance of the basic guidelines of this law, which we understand will nevertheless lead to the spread of the circle of taxpayers. The spread of the tax base leads to a reduction in the possibility of relief, while at the same time it does not change the tax rate by the existing 25%. It may even be possible to conclude that economic conditions on this basis may not improve, that the neutrality of tax reform can be questioned and the question arises as to the impact of tax reform on the competitiveness of domestic operators, unless we are able to respond adequately to these issues in the process of further consideration of the law. We must be aware of this, of course, that in the process of harmonising European Union tax legislation, the area of direct taxes in the European Union is less harmonised, for example, the very area of corporate income tax than one of the direct taxes, as well as the area of indirect taxes, such as value added tax. It is necessary to take into account the entire applicable framework governing the tax area. I think we're going to have a broad enough design for the final drafting of this law. This is understood as the OECD model of the Convention, indicating the typical components, then the adopted recommendations and directives of the European Union and the adopted bilateral and multilateral conventions in this area, in particular the Convention on the avoidance of international double taxation. In fact, it points us to a feeling that perhaps tax reform would indicate a gradual implementation, to reflect on the fact that, in the first phase, only the most urgent harmonisations of European Union legislation would be carried out and to place comprehensive system regulation in a subordinate role, a deliberate, professional procedure, in which the section in this area would be very much involved, where a little analytical consideration would be given to the consequences that changes in the arrangements of individual tax institutions would have had in order not to or avoid the risks of negative consequences. We all want a bigger tax return. However, we would not like to see an increase in tax earnings in the ambition of reducing the competitive capacity of operators, reducing development and investment and reducing the interest in foreign investment. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are counting on the proposal to continue to take account of this meeting, i.e. at this meeting concrete proposals have been made, and we will therefore support the bill as a suitable basis for further consideration at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Blaž Kavčič. And also Saša Peca for the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! Despite the government's claims that the law represents the first part of tax reform and that this is one of the basis for its creation, we estimate in the national party that this is not true. In the case of the law we are dealing with, i.e. the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, it follows our assessment of the knowledge or rather the warning of the European Union that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should stop making fun of workers. According to our assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thinks otherwise, it should be completely different. It should include five steps, firstly, a change in the structure of budgetary revenue or tax revenue, i.e. the structure of tax and non-tax revenue, secondly the umbrella law on concession, third regulation of the absence of a double economic status of one and the same undertakings under the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on Public Companies, and, secondly, the emphasis on capital investment tax, where we have a different opinion in the national party, as has been expressed both by some speakers. It is estimated that the reduction in the timeliness of the capital profit tax would have positive effects, particularly its abolition, i.e. the abolition of the tax. For the first time, in the sense that the financial system and its centre, such as the capital market, would have developed under this condition, i.e. under the condition of the abolition of the capital gains tax, according to our assessment, which is important, especially given that in the case of the capital market we are talking about a sector with the highest added value to the employee Second, as the second reason on which the tax reform should be based within the capital gains, is to strengthen the saving of Slovenian investors in Slovenian securities, which would consequently mean the preservation of Slovenian companies in Slovenian ownership and, of course, according to our assessment, also the defence of national interest. And the third positive thing that we would like to see withdrawing the capital investment tax after ourselves is the accumulation of capital that would or would be created abroad in Slovenia and would not have fled abroad. Basically, according to our assessment, generally tax reform should not be accepted by the government of the Republic of Slovenia at this time. We don't mind that this is taking place during the electoral period, but it bothers us that it's happening so late. Because the fact is, after 10 years, the government only learned the relationship between the burden of work and the burden of capital. This means that, although we are in this national assembly, many institutions outside the national assembly have repeatedly reminded the government of this imbalance. From this out, at least in the national party, we can safely claim that the government has long known this irregular relationship, but of course, because people who are capitalistly close to Liberal Democracy have been cut off because it suited them that the tax deficits arising from capital-based taxes are thus covered by gross wages. According to our assessment, it is, once again, the mockery of government parties and the governments of the Republic of Slovenia in this case, of course, from workers or employees. The motioner himself made a very clear point, once again, after 10 years, after we had had a huge debate in this national assembly, he only now found that the burden of work is, therefore, the revenues from gross wages, i.e. from wages high above the European average, and that the burden of capital in Slovenia is one of the lowest in the European Union. The result of this imbalance is simply the easiest to show, of course, that Slovenian workers are not in competition with workers coming from other countries of the European Union, where they obviously have a much better balance, or otherwise, Slovenia collects 12.5 times more income from the gross salaries of employees compared to the income from the company's income tax. The fact is that we are again faced with value, capital or work here or in the said matter, and unfortunately this time, too, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the current tax legislation, has been making its way 12,5 times stronger on the side of capital and capital, while, of course, taxing the salaries of employees. Therefore, according to our assessment, this very difference of 12.5 times can mean that either companies did not generate profits, which of course is not true, because then it would mean that we also have very poor other sectoral legislation, or that tax revenues are very bad, so the tax revenue from corporate income tax covered by the gross wages of employees, which is also evidenced by the theory that the government of Liberal Democracy and of course of the United States are, but I always point out that, because I have always stood on the principle that it is necessary and meaningful to show the culprit, the result is an existing system or in our country, unfortunately, also due to such tax policy, which, I emphasise, is the burden of wages and does not reward the profits of companies, and after statistics 300 thousand people live below the threshold of poverty, and according to the latest data is about 22,000 people whose monthly income exceeds 2 million Slovenian Tolars. That's the result. So, creating clientism in our country. Unfortunately, as I have mentioned once before, you have been warned about all these absurdities on a daily basis, each year's discussion about the budget, but that, because of your inviolability and regret, because of the apathy of Slovenian citizens, you have achieved this state in which Slovenia is currently located, and that the only motive for amending certain legislation is therefore a warning by the European Union. Thank God you're taking this seriously. But it is sad and, according to our assessment, the greatest harm you can do is not within the European Union, of course, but within our own country. However, we also need to stress our disagreement with the Government's theory of tax policy, or with the theory of distortion of competition, as shown in the Act. According to our assessment, tax policy as one of the country's instruments in macroeconomic theories should take account of developments in the market or in society, but not only monitor, but also shape and shape these developments. This, of course, is not here. This means that tax policy should also influence both aggregate supply and aggregate demand, thus aiming at certain systemic or elasticity of tax policy and at zero tax neutrality, which you tend to pursue in the second part of the law, where you are thus legislating new tax obligations for disabled companies on the basis of the fact that they are destroying competition in our country. So, to use the arguments that, according to the new disability companies or companies with such status, they will be taxed because they destroy competition, according to our assessment, or at least personally, it seems banal to me. The fact is, once again, that Slovenia should have a different tax system. We do not mind the period during which this is accepted, whether this year is after the elections or the year before the elections, the fact is that our mandate lasts for four years and should not be burdened in any way. Sadly, however, since the spoils of this marriage novel are a minimal and responsible government, the responsible national assembly should, of course, make a greater profit. If only the opinions, opinions, warnings coming to the government, in particular the Ministry of Finance of this National Assembly, could be summarized, in my opinion, a much better marriage proposal and, of course, a much higher quality of tax reform material based on the five starting points that I said at the beginning. The task of politics, the Ministry of Finance, the task of this National Assembly, all of us, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, in the creation of such a company which, of course, will be friendly in the first phase and which will not be an exclusive priority and will only put capital, an individual [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Once again, I will repeat myself for the conclusion, which is capitalistly close to Liberal Democracy. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thanks, buddy. We have thus concluded the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Andrei Bajuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that when we read and analyze such a proposal as we now have on our benches, we need to focus on what is the real consequence of it and not believe too much in words. 'Cause there's talk and there's work to be done. In December 2003, the Prime Minister said a few months ago, at a meeting of the Chamber of Economics, that reform, which was supposed to be coming into this National Assembly, tax reform, marked it with very effective words "we will increase capital taxation and reduce labour taxation." Is that really true? Well, if we focus on this law of ours that we have today, which we've begun to deal with. Yeah, why was it so low? Let me repeat, in the countries of the European Union and in the OECD, this tax has been seized, the corporate income tax has been paid, Slovenia has achieved, and there is between 1.2% and 1.4% of gross domestic product, the lowest number on all tables is Slovenia. What are they offering us now? They say, the government is saying that it will introduce certain changes and some are certainly smart, we need to reduce relief, we need to increase the base. But is that enough, or is that enough, or are these steps really enough to make a difference? The fact is, on the basis of the data of the government itself, we know that the final takeover of this is being judged by about 35 billion tolars. What does that mean? This means that at best we may get close to 2% of 1.4% of the gross domestic product. However, 2% is still slightly more than half of what is taxed profits for businesses in the European Union. So one step in one direction, otherwise correct, but obviously not enough, because after all this reform, when all the speeches and speeches are over, what will be left? The rest will remain the same, and this is that capital in Slovenia will be least taxed and labour revenues taxed most in international comparisons. So, what does the ruling coalition under the leadership of Liberal Democracy offer us? More of the same. The question is, is this then sufficient, is this really the fiscal policy that Slovenia needs? Today, in fact, it will come to life in a different way. Is this the economic development of a solidarity society that we all dream about and some of you just talk about - is that enough? Apparently, it's not in our assessment. The tax reform is a topic that is just beginning in Slovenia, and when I listened to a representative of the largest Liberal Democracy Group today, I heard again, he repeated what we had already read elsewhere so that we might also get a new property tax. How, since this, and from where moral authority, that we can even talk about a movement tax, when this same government coalition does not want and insists and adheres to this, decisions of our legislation, which does not tax capital gains. Do you think it is possible to start a debate in Slovenia today to tax people's property, of course, the one that will be most available? What's that gonna be? The simplest, yes, houses, of course houses. But when at the same time you insist stubbornly on one and the same matter. These gentlemen who have become rich, perhaps legally, but illegally in this decade under your government, you are not prepared to tax them entirely. Do you really think the Slovenians won't notice that? Perhaps not, because you will still achieve what you have achieved so far, so that the Slovenian media will not do so, as is currently the case with certain corruption issues. But I am sure that in Slovenia too, the question of "who drinks and who pays" will be a topical one. And that's what we have to ask ourselves, and we have to expose these things. Because the responsibility of the National Assembly is not to accept and pressure buttons on secretly prepared proposals without any explanation. Dear gentlemen, there is no explanation. We do not have some analysis by the Slovenian government to prove to us that these are reliefs, which still suggest that they are carefully placed. Why are we setting these things up like it's supposed to be? They just propose that, they count on the votes they have enough in this room, they count on no one to read it, they count on us not to write it in the media, and people will continue to tolerate it if it is capitalism. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not capitalism! This is a domestic version of the market economy that you have established in this decade. It's not true you can't change that. We are not condemned to continue to tolerate these things. And the cases are obviously at our disposal. Countries with a much more efficient economic development can place the burden of tax in a different way. And it's not nuclear physics, it's just a conscious political decision. And this conscious political decision must take place in this national assembly. And if there are not enough votes now, I assure you today that there will be enough votes in the future, that we will come to such a tax reform and the burden of Slovenian society in a more appropriate way than we have been before. And then they refer to different professional approaches. In my presentation, I myself pointed out how willingly we have started now with some new relief for research and development. How nice that sounds, of course, because that's okay, we're learning society, knowledge, moving on. With what? Ladies and gentlemen, with what? At 10%, which is invested in equipment. Why the equipment? Why not a running expenditure, as all OECD countries know. These studies are available. All you have to do is go to the internet, and they're also available there. But our services can translate this thing into Slovenian. Why do you do that and just do it on your own? [[...]] To make it sound good. Now, if you're comparing 90% of R & D spending is normal running expenditure, and only 10% are in equipment, then you ask yourself - 10% of 10%, that's one percent. So what they're suggesting is one percent. One percent. But that's enough? And of course, as part of one law that we listened to here yesterday, which in fact does not want to face a major problem of economic development in Slovenia and a better environment for entrepreneurship. We have heard again the representatives of Liberal Democracy today how nice it will be when we have such a new law and it will be more pleasant for entrepreneurs. But you're still ignoring a major problem. And a major problem, however, has been caused by this government, by consciously deciding that it will only be in debt on the domestic market and thus dissuade individuals from the Slovenian financial system who still need it. But where can the privates go in our country? Yes, of course, in different Orions. Because Slovenian banks operate for the government, they lend to the government. And then we have Slovenian bankers who are found among the best names of champions of various sports, including golf. They do nothing to actually monitor the economic development and development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Because you don't have to worry. The only one who has a headache in Slovenia, how we will survive this, is a finance minister. Because bankers who actually have to deal with the risk every day, they lend a nice loan to the country, or they go to bed or "spilat" golf. That's the problem. And you don't want to talk about it. At the same time, you're proposing new institutions, new funds, a little bit more budget, we're going to put in this hole, and then we're going to name some new committees, and a new bureaucracy. What will that accomplish? We won't achieve anything. We're not going to achieve anything. Because the first thing we need to settle is that our financial system will serve Slovenian entrepreneurs. Do you really think that Deutsche Bank, Hippo Bank or a French bank will actually care about the problems of the Slovenians? Yes, of course not, of course not, so we must have a domestic financial system to deal with this. But what if the Prime Minister brags about how smart he is that he only owes himself outside. But he is the only gentleman, and this is the only institution that obviously has better access to international financial markets and, last but not least, better conditions than at home. This is now our problem of consciously speaking in one direction, but it is done in a completely different way. Things happen again, but the actual seizures are nothing. This reform, this is not reform, this is a small step, maybe in a different direction, but the reform that we still need will still have to be initiated. It's nothing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First, as the most influential media cover parliamentary and political parties, we were able to read on Monday's Youth issue, it is said that demagogy has a wide open door to the public. Otherwise, here's to the matter. In the second half of last year, the government coalition decided and adopted two key strategic documents, namely the programme for effective entry into the European Union and the common material of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia entitled "The entry of Slovenia into the ERM 2 and the acquisition of the euro". The Programme of Action for the Promotion of Social Development contains six areas, from economic to regional development, health reform and public administration reform, and effective public administration and external policy. In the field of economy, measures are being developed to increase the flexibility of economic and economic policy prior to entry into the European Union, measures to reduce inflation prior to entry into ERM 2 and measures to increase economic growth and employment. It is within the last group of measures that we find a chapter on tax reform and greater efficiency of the tax administration. In the field of tax reform, the Brda document provided for amendments or a new law on income, a new law on corporate income tax and the introduction of a real estate tax, which would replace all existing taxes which today have the nature of the property tax and measures to increase the efficiency of the tax administration. It would be desirable for the government to adopt all the laws necessary to implement tax reform in the package. This is a package of laws consisting of a law on income, a law on corporate income tax, a law on property taxation together with a law on the model of mass property valuation, a new law on cadastral income as well as procedural laws, namely the tax service law and the tax procedure law. The fact that the government has not yet proposed certain laws and, above all, not a new real estate tax law means that it is an extremely demanding project and the question is whether the acid apple of the new tax burden has definitively left behind the new government or will nevertheless try to submit other missing laws to the adoption procedure of the national assembly. This would, in my view, be the optimal solution. The global tax reform in the months leading up to the European and national elections would be a great courage and would express the power of the government coalition. But on the other hand, this is an extremely inappropriate moment, because it is very difficult to create a sufficient social consensus between the profession, politics and social partners in a time of political warming. Let me mention that we have considered and adopted the pension reform in the middle of the previous mandate, not at a time when political parties are recalculating their pre-election options and both the opposition and the coalition are trying to be liked. This law, which we are considering today, has focused most of the words on tax incentives for investments, for which Bolet's study, in particular, has shown that they do not achieve the objectives of preventing the competitiveness of the economy. It would be good to maintain part of the incentives to increase the competitiveness of the economy and focus on development and higher education, which is certainly our long-term objective. It is therefore right to listen to this law and to offer other possible tax reliefs that would make an important contribution to our ambition after Slovenia has been classified as the most developed countries of the European Union in some acceptable period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you. France Tsukati, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. See, already in previous laws, on income, and especially on entrepreneurship, there has been much said where we are, that Slovenia is actually a small country and if something awakened the Slovenian economy and opened new jobs, it is small entrepreneurship, it is craftsmanship and so on. In the European Union itself, there are 26 million private craftsmen, craftsmen. And they employ 80 million Europeans. This is said to be 53% of all employees in Europe are employed in small businesses and in craftsmen. The average number of these employees is three. And if this is true for a great Europe, for great countries, how would this not apply to a small country like Slovenia? The solution to our economy is in small companies written on the skin of Slovenia, and you know that Slovenian people are the most in the family business. However, all of this tax legislation is now, we admit, criminal to small businesses, because it puts the burden on work first, and at least capital. We are on the tail of the burden of capital in Europe and at the top of the burden of work and wages. This is acknowledged by all macro-economicists, also acknowledged by the Minister, and now we will go through this reform to make some cosmetic corrections that are not worth the words and attention. Further, this text, which is here, will continue to flow money from the middle layer, from wages to those with capital, into a narrow layer of transition enriched people. Unfortunately, this text gives us no hope, it's not reform, it's some kind of cosmetic correction. I don't know what to do with that text. For Slovenia, however, this reform does not mean a solution to the gap that we fell into during the ten years of some strange economic policy. Of course, we will try to correct this with amendments if you accept this as an appropriate starting point, but we are afraid that it will not be possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Personally, I do not think that there is much demagogies at the site of such an important regulation today in the National Assembly. If you allow me, on just one statement, which has appeared many times and served this demagogic deception, I would like to explain that a thorough review of this regulation at the moment devalues all indications. The tax treatment of disabled companies, this law, according to many, equates the relationship of the ruling coalition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to disabled companies. It is true that the proposal for a law on corporate income tax, unlike the previous regulation, does not contain exemptions for disabled companies. However, if we read the law extremely carefully, of course we can see that we are making it easier to hire people with disabilities to keep, and not just keep it, but upgrade it. Therefore, it remains a relief for the employment of persons with disabilities. An employee who employs disabled persons will be able to apply a 50% reduction in the tax base if he employs disabled persons with 100% disability and deaf persons and 70% of the wages of these persons. However, as I have already said, it builds up this facility with a view to encouraging employers to employ disabled persons over the quota laid down by the law governing the employment rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. We all know that the draft law will be discussed at this meeting. And such a relief will be included in this employment regime, which I hope will also be supported by the opposition Members, of course, and will be a fine substitute for the regime, which has been applied by the current law on corporate income tax, which, of course, provided for exemption from disability tax, which, if we read carefully, of course, state aid is prohibited under State aid rules. So this regulation does not prevent disabled companies from living in full blood, but one measure is replaced by another, which I personally think is even better because it gives incentives to these companies to really hire people who are most in need of employment in such a company. It's just one demanta. Only because I don't have any more time. The reflection I wish to give to representatives of the government, and further in the form of amendments, may contribute, however, in this law, to consider whether, taking into account the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, it would be necessary for economic companies to be able to impose a further reduction in the tax base for investments in joint regional development projects. We all know that the combination of private and public resources is a generator of development in, if we look at, all the members of the European Union. And the question of how to motivate private capital to enter this partnership is still in place. And if the law on promoting coherent regional development provides for the establishment of a common economic infrastructure of the regions represented by regional scholarship schemes, regional micro credit and guarantee schemes, regional incubators, technology centres and so on, I think companies with the proposed facilitation would be encouraged to co-finance such joint projects. And I personally believe that this would really help to bring this regulation into effect more quickly. And such infrastructure is, of course, also to help businesses increase their competitive capacity. Indeed, how to enable a combination of private and public resources, I think this moment is an extremely important issue. And if we just write this down as a possible measure in the law to promote coherent regional development and not motivate economic operators to invest their own resources, I don't think we're going from words to action. Unfortunately, this also shows the practice so far. Even though these regional partnerships are being established, the integration of economic operators into these projects is extremely modest and I think it is time to reflect on whether this measure would accelerate integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you. My friend Cyril Pucko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my protest against your holding of the meeting, because you did not interrupt your colleague Bajuk when he was defamed by the opinion of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Even more, you allowed time to be exceeded, but if necessary, you would likely respond appropriately to others. The fact is, talking about how nice it would be if this law and the law on income were to be dealt with at the same time, cynicism is unprecedented. For the same ones who are talking about it and who are not currently in the Chamber have, by continuously submitting various proposals to the Income Act, with partial solutions, held back or prevented the simultaneousity of this treatment. This is also politically very popular and populist and perhaps even the electorate likes it. The easiest thing to do is to prevent work and to blame the government coalition and us who advocate or want to get better solutions from the main tax sources, because income is the main tax source. And talking about this law being an exception to relief is, of course, nonsense. For this we have other instruments and other systems. And now to this marriage. In particular, I would limit myself to the relief provided for in Article 49, a 10% relief for investment in research and development. I believe that it would also be necessary to introduce the same facilitation for investment investments or investment amounts in innovation equipment, as this could improve the share of innovative and technologically demanding products and services, particularly in our exports. I am confident that in the next debate we will also find an appropriate solution for such reliefs in order to take advantage of our opportunities to bring about a more developed environment. To talk about what our entrepreneurial environment is at the moment or on the days when we also discuss this law is also a kind of cynicism or putting today into a future that is independent of what happened yesterday or what will happen tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you. First of all, I will explain that Dr. Bajuk did not argue with any parliamentary group when he represented the position of the Group of Members. Because he was the first one, he couldn't do that. Procedurally, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u28	I think, Presidents, that you must allow me, because Comrade Pucko was deceiving when he said that some of the proposals were constantly being tabled prevented by the government proposal. Fellow Member Drobnic submitted a proposal two years ago on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and for two years this National Assembly had the opportunity to deal with this law, and what he says is not true and true.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u29	That's not a procedural question. Blaze Kavčič can no longer discuss. I give the government my word. In order, Madam Secretary of State, will you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to focus on only three of the most important issues that have been raised today in the general debate. Firstly, it seems correct to me that if we are already using numbers and data to use those last available, which, of course, in relation to gross domestic product and the share of profits in this gross domestic product show a different picture as mentioned in the debate and was used for this year 2001. Let me say that this share for 2003 is already 1.9% of gross domestic product, this tax. This is said to be a significant difference from 1.2, which was the case in 2001. It's like the first time. Secondly, I would like to say, because it has been heard from several debaters, of course, by the burden of work, that it is possible to illustrate some specific figures and what this tax reform actually means in terms of reducing labour costs. Today, in Slovenia, taxes and contributions are paid at the cost of work 39.8%. While the average ratio for EU countries is 37.8%. In the acceding and candidate countries, this percentage is even higher and is 41.1%. I'm saying this so we know exactly what boundaries we're moving in. And the new Income Law will, of course, result in a partial payload, because the burden of tax burden is being borne from active income, it is said from the income from work, more from passive income, and this percentage will be reduced from 39.8 to 37.9. So much for the explanation, because it has been repeatedly emphasized that we are completely on top and completely above. In addition, you know that the social agreement has also agreed that the tax on paid salaries will also be reduced under the options offered by this tax reform, the possibility of reducing the non-taxable threshold of 150,000, which is already an agreement, or possibly more. And maybe just about the relief. Let me say that a detailed analysis has been made for the current relief for the period 1996–2001. It was found that the current incentives are not adequate to avoid encouraging investment, development, and not to bring additional ones. As a result of this we have restructured these facilitations, as stated in the law, we have added reliefs, 10% of the equipment to research and development. At the same time, of course, which is very important and which is not in the current system that it is possible to transfer untapped reliefs over the next five years, thus helping and saving new established companies and investment firms and small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you. This was a debate between Members and Members. We've got six minutes left. Does anyone else wish to discuss this available time after the first paragraph of Article 71? Blaze Kavčič. Anyone else? Nobody. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u32	There's only one detail I'd like to point out because there's not much time. With regard to the possibility of relief for donations. The current 0.3% solution is such a negligible small sum for most entities, which cannot constitute a reasonable basis at all for starting an agreement between stakeholders for funds, namely cultural, sports and other entities, and potential donors. I am aware of the explanation that, even in aggregate terms, these 0.3% are not exploited, but of course this is logical, because most entities are small and are calculated on these 0.3% basis for donations to humanitarian, cultural and sports societies, of course an operation that does not lead to reasonable numbers, so I would suggest that the government consider some possibility of increasing this benefit to a space of 3% to 5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the context of the 21 55th plenary vote. I'm breaking this agenda. At 12:25, we'll move on to the 9th item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation, including the government representatives and the minister who has already left.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u34	Good-bye, everybody! Let's get back to work. Between us, I very much welcome the Minister of the Interior and Mrs State Secretary. We're going through reading nine. Agenda items - First draft of the Local Self-Government Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. I invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u35	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to add something to what is otherwise stated in the explanations. First of all, with regard to the reasons for the new law on local self-government. As you know, because of eight novelties and many provisions of the Constitutional Court, the law has become imprecise and in practice very difficult to use. It is also necessary to comply with public administration laws that were later adopted, for example, the State Administration Act, the Civil Servants Act, the Inspection Control Act, the Public Finance Act, the General Administrative Procedure, the Public Funds Act, the Agencies. Furthermore, it is a legislative proposal to harmonise the law with the recommendations and guidelines of the Council of Europe, to enforce the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government in the national legal order, and it is not too much to say that the proposed law is one of the European laws, as it regulates the new electoral rights of foreigners for members of the local councils, actively and passively, and for mayors only the active electoral rights of foreigners. The amendments concern the following areas. First, to consolidate the situation of local self-government in the public administration system, secondly, the right to information, consultation and participation of residents in public affairs, because it is a matter of strengthening participation at local level. Next, the withdrawal of legal entity status to the larger parts of the municipality, local, village and fourth communities. Then complement the relationship between the representative bodies, i.e. the municipal council and the executive body, the mayors. The following concerns the incompatibility between the public functions of the legislative, executive and administrative branches of government with functions in local self-government, in particular the incompatibility of the Member and the mayor. Furthermore, the law newly regulates the issue of common municipal administrations, when they are mandatory, in order to meet the legal requirements. In particular, the new law is governed by the responsibility of the self-government local community for damage and the limited regressive liability of compensation to the official. The measures of the State authorities relating to the supervision of the legality of the work of the local authorities are also regulated by law and the procedure for the change of the territory of the municipality and financial supervision. Allow me to mention briefly just a few of the most important innovations, those that have emerged as the most up-to-date in the debates so far. The first relates to the local, lice and fourth communities, which are located in the upper part of the congregation. The proposal for regulation of the formation of smaller fourth and village communities and towns is based on the aim of improving the efficiency of management in the municipality. Greater involvement of citizens in the management of local affairs, or closer implementation of tasks for citizens. Therefore, the law does not, of course, abolish local communities and other communities, but only proposes or proposes that the community no longer has legal personality status. Legal subjectivity is not a condition for strengthening the local community as a form of direct democracy at local level, in our belief. The second novelty relates to the relationship between the representative body, the municipal council and the mayor. The bill contains a provision stipulating that the mayor participates in the decision-making of the municipal council also by voting in favour of the decisions. This situation gives him the same rights and, above all, the same responsibilities for the decisions taken by the congregation council as other members of the congregation council. I have already mentioned that one of the novelties of the law is the mutual incompatibility of public functions. This is based on constitutional principles, namely the principle of the division of power, which highlights the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and the principle of the independence and autonomy of local self-government. As is known, the law introduces the incompatibility of the MP and the mayor with the following elections. It would also include the joint provision of the tasks of the municipal administration and public powers in this regard, the follow-up by the State authorities to the supervision of the legality of the work, in accordance with the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, as well as the amended procedure for the changes in the territory of the municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, following the debate, the law, as proposed, be supported and thus made possible its adoption after further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Until the amendment of the law, we will hear the views of the parliamentary groups. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental constitutional guarantee and the definition of local self-government in the Constitution is one of the most important constitutional values. Local self-government is a legal institution that defines the position of the local community, is an integral and proportionate independent part of public administration in the country and is a institution of decentralised authority, which means the establishment of a democratic principle of the division of power in a vertical sense. Its self-government status is therefore strengthened by the elements of the brakes and the balance between it and the State authorities. Recommendations to the governments of the Member States of the European Union by the Council of Europe ministerial committee should aim at developing a policy to promote citizens' participation in local public life, to improve the legal basis for cooperation and to enable local authorities to make a wide range of means of cooperation and to commit themselves to more effective promotion of citizens' participation in local public life. The nature of relations in the local community is based on the close integration of people in the community and greater participation of citizens in the exercise of local authority. Therefore, the right to direct decision on the most important issues is an integral part of local self-government. In the local community, it is much easier to use different direct decision-making institutions than in the country because of the smaller area and the number of inhabitants and their connection to the immediate vital interests and needs. Moreover, the ability of citizens to make direct decisions also increases their interest in participating in local self-government matters, strengthening its effectiveness and contributing to greater legitimacy of the decisions taken. The possibility of direct decision-making allows the full exercise of the human right to participate in the enforcement of public affairs. Thus, at the declaration level, in the sense of such and other highly plausible words, which take up too much space in the bill. The basic rule governing the system of local self-government in our country is the 1993 law on local self-government, which has undergone many changes and additions over the years and several judgments by the Constitutional Court. As such, it was the beginning of a reform of local self-government, which, according to the new law's proponents, was completed. In our parliamentary group, we cannot agree with this, nor can we agree with the fact that the changed social situation requires a different regime of the procedure for changing the areas of the municipalities. We are only reminded of 2002 when we had 50 requests for the establishment of municipalities in the process, which means that in the area of local self-government, it is still brewing and blabbing, that within existing municipalities there are areas which, in accordance with the stated principles of local self-government, would want and have the right to live as independent local communities and thus to implement the principle of the division of functions and the decentralisation of power. At that time, the political decision prevailed and, in the Cali area, destroyed, except for one case, all efforts towards a different image of Slovenia in the field of local communities. We are convinced that this was not a contribution to harmonisation with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government in order to protect local self-government and to enforce the democratic principles of local democracy. The reasons set out in the extensive introductory part for the adoption of the new Law on Local Self-Government are based, in particular, on the decisions adopted by the Constitutional Court, on the adoption of new legislation which indirectly concerns local self-government and the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which Slovenia ratified almost eight years ago. In view of these reasons, in our view, it is not necessary to adopt a new law, but to bring it into line with the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The basic difference between the existing law and the proposed law is in the concept of the law itself. The existing law deals with the area of local self-government in the principle-open spirit of the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government on autonomy and the principle of subsidiarity and guarantees the rights to local self-government, while this proposal abolishes it. In particular, this is reflected in the deletion of all articles which discuss the conditions and possibilities for the establishment of new municipalities. At the same time, it abolishes the only substitute, which is the status of a legal person in the lower parts of the congregation. The proposal even forces municipalities under 3,000 people to give up their administration and exercise their independence and to establish joint municipal administrations. The difficulty of the proposal before us is not really what is mentioned in the introduction, but the actual and definitive halting of the process of maturation of local self-government in Slovenia and stabilisation based on the work and will of citizens and citizens. The proposal as a basic act of local self-government does not contain a starting point for the provision of funds for the implementation of tasks entrusted to the municipalities which are inconsistent and left to another law in the law. It also facilitates the participation of municipalities or their representatives in the process of adopting acts which concern them, as is the case in the law in force. Such an approach is not in line with the European Charter on Local Self-Government and the recommendations of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe. This means once again the possibility of constitutional disputes and major problems. The proposed law interferes with the relationship between the authorities themselves in the local community, for which there is no basis in any of the original arguments. It is the politicisation of the law, which will result in the additional burden of the mayor's function without sufficient powers and the introduction of new non-consistencies, which have already been resolved or at least improved in the past. Above all, it is unnecessary to abolish the Supervisory Committee and establish a commission to oversee public consumption in the congregation without the prescribed sequences. Most municipal councils have established financial committees that are already acting on the newly proposed Commissions by abolishing the Supervisory Boards, and the essential function of an independent supervisory service whose role and powers and responsibilities should not be abolished. An important area in which we need to stop is the possibility of dividing the municipality into smaller areas and for the establishment of smaller communities, as a new one would call an important institution, which provides for greater opportunities for citizens to participate in the management of local affairs. Which means nothing more than a pretty word of concealment of the abolition of local communities than legal persons. How interesting that among Slovenian theorists the position was that, in accordance with the constitutional principles of local self-government, a closer part of the municipality is the form of internal organisation of the municipality and that it is not a matter of self-government of local communities within the municipality. If so-called Slovenian theorists knew little about the practice, they would know that the local communities as legal persons represent the basic form of local self-government, where citizens and citizens can make the most of their cooperation. Also, property, usually built with impaction and with the contributions of the countrymen, is owned by many local communities and is extremely important to them. In particular, for active rural communities throughout Slovenia, changing their status is controversial and extremely negative for activism, which is characteristic of the environment in which they do a lot of volunteer work. People fear that the congregation will sell objects in a variety of ways because it will have no interest, but it does not have enough money to care for rural facilities. By the way, he sells property that is more of a burden on him than, on condition, a benefit. Many where the local community is active, the property it owns is marketed and the proceeds from the marketing return to the local community. The abolition of the giro of accounts by the local community means the first step in the abolition of local communities. We know that everything concentrates on the centers, even though we are full of the mouth of decentralisation. We are confident that the countryside will lose much with such a move. This shows us the situation in the municipalities where such a project has already been carried out. I come from one of the inner congregations, where local communities as legal entities were abolished years ago with a pretense, which was inherited by all the municipal councilors, that this is the most rational thing for the congregation. I believe that this is much easier for the mayor and for the employees of the municipality, but it is not good for self-government, for the local self-government that we speak so much about. What has happened is what many fear, a cultural home in one of the places, sometimes a falcon home built by a baton. They sold it years ago because it didn't pay to rebuild it. Otherwise, we wonder what else is worth doing today. The purchase was diverted to a special account from which they covered bills for projects of a new multi-purpose promised facility, which citizens can dream of for 10 years. By abolishing the local community as a legal person, the cooperation of people in the city and with municipal officials has also deteriorated dramatically and has fallen to the lowest point. We now have only a committee in the local community, which is only a consultative body of the municipal council, members of the committee propose an election and appointment committee on the basis of proposals made by households and political parties. This has been decided by the municipal council, which has proved to be totally unacceptable and a real fiasco for local self - government and does not at all contribute to its strengthening. We can say that the solutions proposed do not mean a significant movement forward, but back in terms of ensuring democracy, subsidiarity and autonomy to regulate life at the local level. The details that the law or the proposal for a law enforces are the incompatibilities of functions, the procedure for appointing subordinates, the regulation of the salaries of directors, etc., which means the development of the shortcomings so far, should be substantially better legally and technically defined. We believe that it would be better to upgrade and correct the existing law and not to remove content that is not disputed and to produce new disputed solutions. To this end, our Group of Members has also tabled amendments in 2000, but was rejected without discussion. In our Group of Members, we believe that the existing proposal is not suitable for consideration, not only because it fundamentally interferes with the concept and current practice at local level, but also because it is not in line with other legislation that is currently being imposed vehemently on the procedure. The National Assembly does not have consistent financial regulations. This is what we mean by the proposal for a law on coherent regional development, a law on landscapes, which at the same time lacks at least a new law on the financing of municipalities and a law on the financing of landscapes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the proposaler's assessment that comprehensive amendments to the Local Self-Government Act are necessary in order to harmonise with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is part of the Slovenian acquis, in order to comply with other laws and, of course, due to the lack of transparency caused by the previous interventions into the Local Self-Government Act. The proposed law strengthens the role of the government in the process from the territorial transformation of municipalities where certain powers of the national assembly are transferred to the government. Thus, it becomes a preliminary procedure to link with the determination of the eligibility of the reasons for the efficiency and rationality of the exercise of municipal functions of the power of the Government. Above all, the important assessment to be carried out by the government in the process of establishing the municipality is the answer to the question whether the newly established municipality will be able to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants more effectively than the municipality has done before. However, changes to the boundaries of municipalities will only be possible after prior consultation of the government with the municipal councils on the merits of the change and, of course, on the basis of the referendums held, where the position of the population covered by the change will be obtained. It is important that the law prescribes the observance of the will expressed in the referendum. An exception is possible only if a new congregation is formed in a way that brings together two previously. Chapter three, the chapter on landscapes as a wider self-government local community. We estimate that it is good to keep the chapter, although we only define the provinces in it and write down the reasons for establishing and establishing a special law that regulates the division of Slovenia into provinces across the country at the same time. This will make all the proposed laws on individual provinces irrelevant, which can be good for a serious purpose and for taking us here in the national assembly. However, there is a weakness in the fact that partial solutions are not possible if the Lands Act as a whole is not supported. Many controversy in the debates so far has been the subject of a legal definition of the smaller parts of the municipality. The bill still gives municipal councils the opportunity to establish closer communities. Even before the change in the political system, local communities have proved to be an important factor in the development of a particular place. It is true that the legislation at the time provided for a different regime as set out today, but the majority of local communities and city districts continued to exercise the beneficial exercise of civic and civic participation in the management of local communities in the current system of local self-government. It is important, however, that the proposal we are considering today makes it possible to establish and operate smaller local communities, while it is important to clearly define their status and, of course, also their responsibility for business and, above all, the financing of the activities of the smaller parts of the municipality. One of the major changes is the change in the supervision of the municipal council over the purposeful use of the municipality's budget and the administration of the municipality's assets. The Supervisory Board shall be suspended and the Financial Supervision Commission shall be established as a compulsory body of the Municipal Council. We opposed the proposal that members and members of the municipal council should not participate in this committee. It is not logical that someone involved in the budget adoption process should not exercise control over its implementation. The regulation that the Commission consists of citizens with adequate knowledge and experience may need to be specified more precisely. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we accept the proposal by the proposed amendment of the law that the mayor participates in the decisions of the municipal council with his vote and that he is not a member of the Council. For some time there has been an arrangement in place that provides for the mayor to hold meetings of the municipal council. The solution has proved to be effective in practice in most cases. We estimate that it is good for the mayor who holds the meeting of the Council to make an active decision. It is unusual to do so so far when the mayor who holds the meeting does not decide, but as a member of the municipal council participates in the vote. In the past, there have been several attempts to record in different laws the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. This time, too, the proposed incompatibility will receive both criticism and praise. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have seriously examined the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed solution, we do not have a unified opinion, but I can say that most Members and Members of our Group support the proposed incompatibility. The debate so far has also been controversial with regard to the obligation to establish a common body of municipal administration, which has been linked to the number of citizens and citizens of each local community. The current proposal is likely to be more acceptable, as the proposal of the law provides that the municipality must be set up if the Ministry orders the establishment of a joint body by a decision. The Ministry first finds that this local community does not have or provide the staff prescribed by law. In doing so, local communities are provided with legal protection, and the municipality can initiate a legal dispute. Similarly, the law regulates the early dissolution of the municipal council or the early release of the mayor. The reasons given are both for the dissolution of the municipal council and for the discharge of the mayor. A procedure is prescribed, which also provides for judicial protection. Following the completion of the procedure, when the Government takes a decision on the early dissolution of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor, it is possible to bring an action before an administrative court and to decide on a possible appeal by the Supreme Court. Only a legal decision means dismissal or dismissal. Thus, there have been unfounded allegations or concerns that the discharge or dissolution process involves political accounts of various coalitions or parties at the local and national level. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we assess that the proposal for a law on local self-government is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We therefore have a long-awaited law on local self-government, which, after eight novels, would finally await the concise form of a single act. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome this decision. Members of our parliamentary group have examined the draft law and we generally agree with the proposed solutions. However, we also have comments on some of the solutions to the law. One of the solutions that has the support of our parliamentary group is the incompatibilities of the mayoral function with the function of a member of the national assembly, even when he is not a mayor of the post. In the DeSUS Group, we did not find the solution unacceptable either, which would determine the number of inhabitants of a particular municipality as a criterion for the professional performance of the function. However, we believe that in the final conclusion such a decision may favor certain congregations or discriminate against others. We are therefore pleased with the proposaler's decision that all local communities are subject to the same criteria, since, in accordance with the principle of the division of power into a legislative, enforcement and judicial solution, such a solution does not seem to be disputed. However, we are disturbed by the fact that we cannot have the idea of reorganising local self-government in its entirety. We believe that the people who follow the developments in this area are justifiably difficult to distinguish concepts such as the congregation, the union of municipalities, the administrative unit, the common municipal administration and, lastly, the province, the region, the development region and so on. They're probably wondering what the real purpose of this reorganisation is when we read possible solutions like this, we can't get rid of the impression that it's about centralised decentralisation as soon as possible. Of course, the concept of local self-government depends on its content definition or on the political consensus, which must also define what is the essence of the concept. Nevertheless, they have been given the feeling that the country which, with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, is going to lose sight of it, without the possibility of allowing the individual local community to carry over the tasks of the state administration in particular. In the DeSUS Group, we take the view that the country must be cautious about this and propose that it be flexible to transfer state tasks to the municipalities and, of course, to other forms of local community once these are formed. Local self-government is guaranteed by the Constitution in Slovenia. The draft law redefines the position of local self-government in the public administration system, whereby self-governing local communities are supposed to be parts of the executive branch that carry out the statutory scope of public administration tasks. It is illogical, therefore, that both municipal councillors and mayors, who are directly loved, are subject to control, executive authorities, governments. The executing authority shall, in accordance with the principle of the braking and balance system, as well as the logic itself, not be able to exercise control over the authority of the same branch of authority. However, this body can exceptionally resolve directly loved people. The most just solution might be a referendum, that is, elected from the people, from the people, too. In short, a mirror image of the elections, but perhaps such an arrangement would not be good in terms of stability. However, it would be more acceptable than it has already been proposed that the discharge of the mayor and the municipal council, on a proposal from the government, be decided by the court. We also have some serious comments regarding the symbols or humps referred to in Article 19 of the Act. It gives the self-governing local communities the right to their own symbols, thereby understanding the right to a coat of arms, flag, stamps or stamp. We believe that this article would suggest that it should be written more precisely for the following reasons. Acceptance of symbols of local communities, crests, flags and seals, their shape and size, the use of colours or elements is a matter of profession which should be taken fully into account in this action. About one third of all municipalities so far have taken such a professional approach with the relevant organisation, and we already have a solid basis in the Republic of Slovenia for uniting approaches to the formation of at least municipal coat of arms and flags. We believe that it would be appropriate for a credible state institution to issue an expert opinion, a so-called certificate of eligibility of the municipal coat of arms. One such solution is, for example, the Slovenian Archives, which would be operated by an appropriate commission, possibly appointed by the Ministry of Culture. For its symbols, the coat of arms is becoming more and more interesting among the smaller local communities, cities, markets. Some already have their traditional humps. And if we don't get this area legally settled now, we'll soon find ourselves in a terrible mess. Of course, such humps should, in a sense, in a system of differences, separate according to the rank of the local community, which can only be regulated by a single system which certainly belongs to this law. The law should probably also offer definitions between the concepts of printing, seal, stamp, to avoid new misunderstandings. Here is a comment on the interpretation of the concept of the local community. We know that there has been a broad debate in public about the non-recognition of the legal personality of such a community. In the DeSUS Group, however, we have a different point of view. The 52nd article, which lists some of the local communities, shows the addition of the missing ones that we already have and live now. In this way, the villages and local communities and the fourth communities in the cities in this article would also be registered with reeds and urban communities. The latter are often drowned within the framework of the concept of municipalities. We know that the city of Ljubljana is not the same as the municipality of Ljubljana. The town of Kamnik is not the same as the municipality of Kamnik. Postojna is not the same as Postojna. We believe that the law on local self-government should respect and respect the status of the place that you, the market or the city that the inhabitants of the settlements already value highly. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are pleased that the new proposal for a law deals roundly with the problems of local communities, even though we are still waiting for the law on the provinces. Given that Article 128 of the bill provides for the establishment of the provinces by law, it would probably be useful to encourage consideration of all other laws relating to the subject. However, the proposal for a law on the establishment of local self-government for the first time favours functional, physical and regional content and is finally moving away from the territorial dimension. With perhaps a little, or a little, self - imposed provision for the congregation to be established by the merger of two congregations, irrespective of the outcome of the referendum decision. On the other hand, this Decision may be crucial for bringing municipalities together in a more functional way. In the DeSUS Group, we consider the proposal to be suitable for further consideration, but of course there is still much work to be done in the future. We'll probably add another amendment ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament and other guests! Among the main reasons for drafting the new bill is the lack of transparency of the existing law, which has received many amendments and additions over a decade. However, I would point out that, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the key issue currently addressed by the municipalities is, in particular, the financing of municipalities, which is due to the type of new burden imposed by the State at that time, but which has not been provided by the source of funds for this purpose. Therefore, the country should first address this issue as a matter of priority. In doing so, we would like to stress the concern already expressed in the opinion of the Council of State that it would be useful for the legislative process to reintroduce at the same time all proposals relating to the reform of local self-government in order to obtain a comprehensive review of the local self-government system. During the coordination period in which we actively participated in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, some things were positively resolved, although some areas or articles were very questionable. That is why we want to expose them and, of course, we believe that they need change and would not help to make local self-government more effective. In particular, we would highlight the following sets of the bill. In the sub-chapter of the municipal authorities, the Commission for the Control of Public Consumption, as defined in Article 31. The bill states that the Commission for the Control of Public Consumption is no longer an independent body of the municipality, as it has so far been, but only a committee of the municipal council. We believe that this should remain an independent body that is not subordinate to everyday politics. This reduces the status and, in particular, independence and autonomy if they agree to the proposed solution provided for in Article 31 of the Act. Furthermore, the procedure for appointing the Subcommittee, Article 38, does not seem to be the most appropriate solution for the successful functioning of the congregations. We believe that with regard to the mayor, it would make sense for him to be appointed mayor of the council, not the municipal council. Thus, there would not be so many conditions regarding the coalition and the potential for infertile cooperation between the mayor and the mayor, often imposed by the ruling coalition in the municipal world. The mayor himself would appreciate which one of the saints he would best cooperate with, which would, of course, allow for constructive work. At the time of the mayor's operation, it would also be worth mentioning an important issue, namely the issue of the mutual incompatibility of public functions, referred to in Article 44. The incompatibilities of the Member and the mayor who performs his or her functions are already established. This is regulated under Article 82(2) of the Constitution and is specified in Article 10 of the Law on Members. At the same time, we would like to point out that the incompatibilities of the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary and mayoral functions in the European Union are known only by two countries explicitly, Greece and Ireland. The purpose of the current regime, which allows the Member to perform the mayoral function unprofessionally at the same time, is also justified by the smallness of Slovenia. As a small country, we need synergies between the country and local self-government. In other words, the proposer turned this subject from the electoral law to the National Assembly very succinctly into this law, where the lower quorum for adoption is, of course, prescribed. However, this issue will certainly be decided in the second or third reading on amendments as well. At the time of the mayor's operation, a few words should also be given to the proposed early resolution options, as referred to in Article 108. We believe that in the process of early dissolution or discharge of the body, both the mayor and the municipal council, the state council should decide, as it calls elections for the mayor and the municipal council on the basis of the electoral law. With regard to the operation of the municipal administration, we also need to pay attention to the establishment of a common body of the municipal administration. It is positive that a transitional period is allowed and that this novelty enters into force with the following mandate. However, we would like to draw attention to the systemisation of the required conditions to be met by employees in the municipal administration. They are very tall and many pose problems. Of course, any municipal administration that works well needs a professionally trained staff. But the problem arises when the congregation cannot and must not, of course, pay according to its education. Of course, there is a question of legislation that limits this area and so we agree in a vicious circle of rules that are contradictory to each other. Of course, supervision of the work of the municipal authorities is also very important. The diction of the proposed article seems questionable or not well defined. The Ministry cannot control and assess the legality of municipal regulations and individual acts in the exercise of supervision over the legality of the work of the municipal authorities. The directive of the Article should be amended in the context that the Ministry is obliged to alert the municipality, but of course it may propose an assessment of the legality of the act in the Constitutional Court. One of the important innovations is the deletion of the status of legal persons in the smaller parts of the municipality, as defined in Article 51 and, of course, in a specific chapter. With regard to this chapter, we strongly oppose these provisions in the Slovenian People's Party. We believe that the abolition of legal status in the larger parts of the municipality would have a negative effect on the functioning of these communities. It would mean significantly less motivation for citizens in local self-government and awareness that they no longer have the option of direct decision-making. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the current provision in the Law on Local Self-Government should remain unchanged; it is said that municipalities should decide in the Statute whether to grant the status of a legal person to a greater extent. Many, especially in larger congregations, have played so - called local communities and still play an important role. Let us leave what is good and leave this decision to the congregations, for they know best what organization is best suited for them at a lower level. It is also important to mention the tightening of the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. The bill provides for more stringent conditions, according to the existing proposal of the law, that for reasons of geographical, border, ethnic, historical and economic reasons the municipality may also have an exception to less than 5,000 inhabitants, which the law no longer allows. Given that it is proposed to withdraw legal status from the smaller areas of the municipalities, we believe that it is necessary to allow for more liberal conditions for the establishment of a new municipality, as the applicant, according to our assessment of these solutions, is inconsistent in view of the solutions to abolishing the legal status of the smaller parts of the municipality. We believe that there are also some positive solutions in the bill, and there are also the reasons for the reasoned facts that we have represented in the coalition coordination in the Slovenian People's Party, and we would also point to the question that we find questionable about the unilateral responsibility that is prescribed, including compensation, for officials in local communities in this country, but will also be told more about it by colleagues in the parliamentary group. However, the proposal for a law still contains a number of open issues, which, of course, we have highlighted. All of this must be borne in mind that local self-government needs to be adapted to European guidelines. One of the main features is that the local self-government is the institution of decentralised authority to promote and accelerate the participation of citizens in local public life and, above all, to ensure the participation and participation of citizens in the creation and operation of the local level, so that residents themselves as decision-makers can manage their own affairs or directly and indirectly participate in the management of public affairs. However, the public of the work of local authorities and the effective system of ensuring the right to information of a public nature in local self-government must be a condition for all of this. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not favour the proposed solutions in the law as a whole, but we will assess, on the basis of the debate, whether the willingness in this House is for some of the solutions that are questionable at this time, which are proposed in the Act. However, I would like to point out that before the adoption of the new Law on Local Self-Government, there should be a clear solution to the financing of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u45	Dear Minister! A respected choir! Allow me to present to you the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group on the proposal for a law on local self-government. The proposal for a new law in local self-government sent to the legislative process by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia represents the greatest and gravest attempt so far to interfere with local self-government, which was introduced on the basis of the new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Local Self-Government in 1994. However, the proposal for a law was forwarded to the procedure at a time which is objectively already pre-election period, and the intervention is therefore a sensitive area such as local self-government, which needs to be assessed in particular from this point of view. Nevertheless, the basic feature of this government proposal is to pursue only two objectives. First, the legislative proposal follows an increase in the potential for the direct and indirect impact of the State and authorities on the developments in individual municipalities and thus the remarrying of the area of actual local self-government. The second objective of the legislative proposal is to reduce the possibility of citizens directly participating in the creation of local self-government and to reduce the possibility of citizens participating in the procedures. The two objectives, in our view and our belief, have been completely wrongly set, and therefore the starting point of the law for our parliamentary group, as well as the whole issue, has already been disputed. In particular, some concrete solutions are missing, some of which are uncontestedly constitutionally disputed. The proposed law does not contain any more criteria or criteria for the establishment of new municipalities, and in individual cases, the decision remains with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, in the transitional and final provisions, it repeals a special law that has more precisely regulated procedures for the establishment of new municipalities. The purpose of the arbitral decision of the executive branch on the right to local self-government or administrative persuasion of the establishment of new smaller municipalities is therefore clear, although this right is provided for in the Constitution and is also protected by international acts. Let me mention only the European Charter on Local Self-Government. In comparison, I would like to point out that until the forced establishment of the Cardidian communes in the territory of Slovenia, all from the Austro-Hungarian number of municipalities in this area has been at least twice as large as it is now. The proposed law allows for an extremely wide range of enforcement interventions in the field of local self-government. This is a whole range of measures allowing central, state authorities, inter alia, to enforce individual measures at the expense of the municipality. They shall prevent the adoption of acts at the level of the municipality by which the state authority would disagree and shall even allow the exercise of the direct personal, material and other responsibilities of the holders of functions in local self-government. This is very controversial for the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. The government proposal states that the government can also call off municipal officials, the most important one, which is to the mayor, but can also limit income or compensation for the performance of the function and the performance of the function in full. It is probably too much to point out that this is suggested by the government, which does not even come to mind with regard to the responsibility of ministers, even in cases where there is a clear violation of the laws. I would like to remind you that, for example, Minister Gaber peacefully admitted years ago that he was aware of a violation of labour law at the Ministry under his leadership. Nothing happened. No sanctions, no consequences. Given that we live in a country where there is yet another policy, one policy option, all-powerful and all-encompassing, it is clear that the intention to legislate these proposals would almost certainly lead to attempts at political abuse. However, once such solutions have been remedied, one of the fundamental requirements of the European Charter of Local Self-Government would no longer be met, whereby the essential function of local self-government is to foster effective protection of local communities against arbitrary or arbitrary interference by the central government. The government proposal for a law also provides a totally unacceptable double increase in the number of mandatory signatures to hold a referendum at the level of the local community, from 5 to 10% of all voters in the municipality. And in this case, it is an obvious continuation of the policy of abolishing the actual possibility of a referendum, as it is clear that it is essentially an unattainable number. In comparison, I should point out that according to this logic, some 200,000 signatures should be collected for the request for a national referendum, which is a complete absurdity. The law also adds a political bone in the form of incompatible mayoral and parliamentary functions. It is clear that this proposal is intended to draw opinions in the political arena in particular at this point, instead of focusing more attention on the inadmissibility of interventions to local self-government. There is also no legal basis for the proposal to legislate non-conformity, since, under the other legal regime of the State, incompatibility should be dealt with and laid down by law which otherwise governs the non-conformity of a Member State's function with others. It is likely that for some kind of comforting award to this added provision, after which the mayors could also participate in the decision-making of the municipal council, which is, in particular, a completely different way of choosing and exercising the mayor's powers, a system of controversial and questionable solutions. The government's proposal for a new law on local self-government therefore constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of local self-government. The foundations, and above all this is crucial, on the assumption that the reform of local self-government at first stage has already been completed, which is an undeniablely wrong starting point. Such a starting point is obviously also inappropriate in terms of the right to local self-government, as provided for by the Slovenian Constitution, as well as in terms of the legal principle of equality before the Constitution and the law. The proposed transfer of the key powers of the National Assembly from the field of local self-government to government is unacceptable and is also constitutionally questionable, since it essentially constitutes an executive power. As a whole, the government's proposal for a new law on local self-government is essentially an even greater centralisation of government, while it is also extremely undemocratic about some solutions. The proposed law on local self-government is undoubtedly also an obvious attack on the initial reform of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. This reform of local self-government is undoubtedly one of those steps and actions of Slovenian policy and our everyday one that have enabled and helped Slovenia to develop faster and more evenly over the past decade. There is no doubt that, because of the development and functioning of local communities, a fair share of what we have created has been distributed more fairly because of the good functioning of the municipalities, and because of this the countryside has also received the work of these goods. Such development, such divisions without newly established congregations, would certainly not be possible. In our view, the proposal for a law on local self-government is, once again, an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of local self-government, based on the wrong assumption that the reform of local self-government has already been completed at the first stage. It is based on indisputably wrong assumptions and is essentially an attempt to further centralise local administrations as part of the state administration. The proposed transfer of the key powers of the National Assembly from the field of local self-government to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unacceptable. Slovenian Democrats believe that the legislative proposal is in sharp contradiction with our programming guidelines and that it must be rejected as such. We in the party of Slovenian Democrats advocate for a different policy, for as much autonomy as possible and for universal autonomy in the field of local self-government, which is crucial for the balanced and balanced development of Slovenia. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposal for a new law on local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will give us the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u47	Honorable National Assembly! In spite of the proposal's opinion, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that, given the lack of preparation of the new law, it was best to amend or supplement only those provisions where necessary; for example, because of a decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the protection of the mayor, or the municipal council. An important intervention or amendment of the law relates to the abolition of the legal personality of local communities, which also results in the municipality taking over ownership of property and other rights and obligations of local communities. In this regard, the law was amended or supplemented in several articles in 1999. From then on, the situation in each congregation depends on how they decided on the legal status of the smaller parts. If a narrower part of the municipality is a legal person, it shall take place within the framework of the tasks laid down in the statute of the municipality or the decree. In addition, it is stipulated that the statute of the municipality may provide that legal transactions over a certain value are valid only with the consent of the mayor. Legal guardians for legitimate legal traffic are therefore already in the current law. Possible individual cases of infringements of these provisions, in our view, are not the reason for the proposed amendments. This is mainly because the situation in various regions of Slovenia is different and the problem is broader and not only legal. Residents of the larger parts of the congregation, local communities, which were also constitutional material in the previous system, contributed with their work, enthusiasm, effort and so on to the development of their places and also contributed to the property of their communities. Therefore, they feel a special sense of belonging and thus feel a closer connection to the community. Otherwise, the congregation’s situation is best known by the municipal councils of the individual municipalities. In view of the foregoing, they would only allow themselves to decide whether or not they would have a narrower part of the congregation or what their situation would be. Otherwise, we can predict with certainty that the abolition of the legal status of the person of public law of the smaller parts of the municipalities or local communities in the coming period will bring a very large number of disputes and in particular municipalities, resulting in a series of internal disputes and inefficiencies in the work of municipal councils in other areas. A specific issue in the bill is also the liability of a member of the municipal council and the mayor if the damage is caused by a legal or real act which is not in accordance with the law or other rules. As the standards are written, they will certainly cause the opposition in municipal councils to be the main object of the municipal councils, often triggering procedures and discussions on the compensation responsibilities of other members of the Council and mayors. This will lead again to the inefficient work of the municipal councils. Liability for damage is defined in the Constitution and in the provisions on bond relations. They also do not prevent the exercise of injury now, and therefore, according to the Party of Young Slovenia, this provision is not appropriate. The law proposes that mayors and parishioners who perform their duties in a non-professional manner have a right to payment of 50% of the basic salary they would receive if they were to perform their duties professionally. So far, for example, it has been stipulated in the law in force that a sub-martial performing the function unprofessionally belongs to a payment for the performance of a maximum of 40% of the mayor's salary.The proposed new arrangement will likely lead to a higher number of sub-martials and will require more money to pay for their functions. The work of the mayors depends on the powers given to him by the mayor, so it is not appropriate to provide that all the parishioners have a predetermined payment. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we condemn the additional use of municipal funds for higher salaries of officials and do not support them. Newly, the coat of arms of the congregation must be heraldically correct and described according to the rules of the Heraldics. If anyone thinks that this is not the case, he will be able to reopen a procedure to assess the conformity of the municipal statute, which will regulate it by law and constitution. We can therefore expect a series of disputes about symbols, except if I am joking, before we pass a law on the heraldicly correct congregation crests. The proposal by the legislator to follow the Heraldic Rules in the adoption of coat of arms makes sense in the idea. But it has to be written a little differently. In this regard too, we can expect future congregations to lose much energy in changing their symbols. We do not think it appropriate that the law no longer mentions the congregation’s mandate. Even more so in an article where this should continue to be defined, particular attention should be paid to all those issues relating to the situation of young, elderly and socially disadvantaged people. At this point, I would also like to draw attention to an inadequate system of funding for municipalities, which has already been given a lot of talk, so in the Party of Youth Slovenia we propose that all future changes be made with the simultaneous change of the currently inadequate system of funding for municipalities, since this is only a condition for the successful implementation of the decentralisation of the country. As a hypocrite, we also view the proposal of a clearly defined incompatibility between the mayor's and the MP's function for 2006, because we believe that this should be applied already in this year's national elections and once and for all to stop the use of the mayor's and municipal functions in the national elections. The draft law at first reading in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia will not be supported because it is poorly prepared and is not accompanied by a new law on the financing of municipalities, which is necessary for the thorough reform of local self-government. As long as you allow government parties to continue the legislative process, we are already announcing a number of amendments in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, which will try to improve the law as badly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u48	The word is given by Cveta Zalokar Orazem for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u49	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Local Self-Government is one of the laws that have been most recently amended and upgraded over the past ten years, indicating that the country did not have a very happy hand in the legal regulation of the area. Many bad and unthinkable solutions in the past have created many conflicts, blockades, problems in controlling politicisation and so on. This time, actually, we have a ninth change of law ahead of us, and I am sure it will not be the last. However, we can certainly say that the true imaginary and comprehensive vision of regulating this area has never been, and even at this time, this is not the case in its entirety. It is also true that local self-government wants much more at the moment and also misses a new law on the financing of municipalities, as this is the biggest problem at the moment. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that, although the law is suitable for further consideration, it is conditional on further consideration, as certain urgent changes are in place, in this sense a change is necessary, namely with regard to passive electoral rights for foreigners and a change with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court on the early dissolution of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor. However, we would like to stress that further discussion will need to consider the relevance of some of the innovations it brings. We believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that it is also necessary to leave independence in future in deciding on the legal personality and status of local communities to the municipalities themselves and their statutes, given their specificity and diversity. Once again, we believe that this is to be left to the congregations and their statutes, for we feel that the congregations are very different, that the situations are specific, and that each congregation can decide for itself what is best for it. We also believe that there will be even more pressure on the establishment of new municipalities to be seen as administrative abolition of local communities, which would not be appropriate at this time. We also estimate that there are no valid arguments for the novelty brought about by the mayor's voting rights in the decision-making of the municipal council. We are not aware of and do not know why this should be introduced, because there is no need to go into this novelty and, in fact, to change the final election result at the expense of the mayor's right to vote. We believe that the law is insufficiently binding in a chapter that speaks of the situation of municipalities and their associations in the procedures of the National Assembly and the Government in the adoption of laws and regulations that directly touch and interfere with jurisdiction and operation and the financing of municipalities, because it is only aware of the fact that appropriate cooperation, as stated in the law, is not sufficient in terms of the practice that it is. It will be necessary to write in a more binding law how municipalities are involved in the process of enacting laws and regulations, which is why we have concerns here. We also have serious concerns about whether it is most appropriate for the early resolution of municipal councils and mayors to be entirely ruled by the government. With regard to the incompatibility of functions, in particular the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, there is no single position in our parliamentary group. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is necessary to consider whether the system is adequate and sufficient to have local interests at the level of the State, since there has been no change in the status of the State Council as an authority to exercise these interests, so it is logical that these interests try to assert and find their place and position in the national assembly. Due to the unchanged electoral law, however, the practice shows that Members are still primarily representatives of the narrower local communities, the districts in which they are elected, whether they act as mayor or not. With regard to liability for damage caused by local authorities because of their decisions, the law is extremely restrictive, as I believe that no other body is so severely sanctioned or so severely sanctioned for any damage, including direct financial consequences for individuals. While the solution is commendable, it should also be applied to other authorities to the same extent as to the municipalities. As this is the case for more radical amendments to the law, I should mention another new or meaningful initiative at the first general hearing, the question of the length of the mandate. I think that, at this point in the National Assembly, we also have the opportunity to consider whether the four-year mandate is the most appropriate solution for the mandate that the mayor and the municipal councils have. Experience from abroad shows that these mandates are mostly longer, 5 and 6 years. In fact, the 4-year mandate is too short a period in which both the mayor and the council of the municipalities could sufficiently implement the mandated electoral programmes. That is why I think we could also think about this at first reading as in general reading. These are just some of the comments of our parliamentary group, which we believe will need to be worked out and found a better solution in the next process of adopting the law. And only in this case will we later support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you. Comrade Sašo Peče, position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u51	Your Honors are here! The speaker in front of me correctly concluded that the law on local self-government was one of those laws that changed as per the current tape. Probably because of the size and importance of the matter, i.e. the areas of operation of Slovenian municipalities, probably also due to the number of Slovenian municipalities, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, is obviously too strong. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that it is likely that the current political authorities and the ideas of action are subject to changes in the individual parts of the Local Self-Government Act. But as far as the law ahead of us is concerned, we can say with certainty that there has been a great deal of effort in it, that it represents as many novelties as possible, and that, according to our assessment, we can get them into 15 rounded circuits. During the time available to me, I will only identify myself on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group on behalf of those innovations that we consider to be harmful and that they are not appropriate to be in the process of addressing the law on local self-government. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the changes in the mayor's area, i.e. the mayor's voting rights are not justified, and that such desires do not come from local communities, do not come from citizens and citizens, but is only the political desire of the proposer, i.e. the department. According to our assessment, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the principle of the division of power, would also be passed on to local communities, which means that the executive branch of the authorities in the municipalities is represented by the mayor and they legally know the authorities of their municipal councils. And just when the mayor's vote is suspended, he has the right to propose, to enforce the decrees and other acts under the jurisdiction of the municipal councils, there is a provision for the division of power at local level. Therefore, the desire of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to equalize the executive branch and the legislative branch of power is at least beyond our assessment. At the time of writing the Constitution and determining the division of power, the Constitutional Tribunal wrote down the division of power precisely in order to prevent any abuse of power. Now that the mayor, as a typical case of the executive branch, would also be given the right to vote, it would mean that he himself lays down laws or decrees under the jurisdiction of municipal councils and rules. In short, I would determine my own part of the tasks and duties under the responsibility of individual local communities. For the Slovenian National Party Group, this kind of desire or desire of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is totally unacceptable. However, it is still necessary to stress that such a legal change would also change the system of elections, because, the fact is that elections for municipal councilors are based on a proportional or majority system set by law, in such a case, the candidate or mayor would, of course, acquire a voting right without even competing for it in the elections. Further, as the second set of unacceptable solutions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the Local Self-Government Act, the role and position of the Supervisory Board is. According to our assessment and knowledge of the area of local self-government, the purpose of the Supervisory Board, the existing Supervisory Committee in its independence, autonomy and control, which is reflected in the form of independent control over the functioning of the municipal or municipal administration. The law's proponents, namely, the Ministry of the Interior, propose that the supervisory committee no longer be; therefore, that there be no autonomous body that would try or detect irregularities in the Slovene municipalities, but that part of its functions would carry out the work of the municipal council and thus fall under the jurisdiction of the municipal or city council, depending on the status of the individual municipality. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, in this area, wants to avoid supervisory, let's say, priorities or supervisory rights that some independent institution has within local community bodies, which is why it is so much more incomprehensible to us why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying not to have authorities in the field of local communities, in which case a supervisory committee to identify possible irregularities and monitor the financial operations of individual local communities. The powers of permanent work bodies, municipal councils, are defined in the Statute, and we also assess that, in spite of the opposition of the Slovenian National Party, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to destroy or lose one of its supervisory functions, there would, of course, be a conflict between permanent working bodies within the municipal councils, within their competences, duties and tasks, thereby causing, I stress, untransparentness and complications in the functioning of local communities. The next chapter, which is inappropriate for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, even more, is incomprehensible in the framework of the proposal for a law on local self-government, is, of course, the transposition already, I emphasise - the electoral rights of foreigners, so I will only repeat here what we have repeated several times in previous discussions in the National Assembly. According to our assessment, it is very inappropriate to maintain the status of local communities, as communities that care for their interests, which care for the interests of local communities, to give active or passive electoral rights to foreigners as well. According to our assessment, it is very inappropriate to maintain the status of local communities as communities caring for their interests, which are concerned about the interests of the local community, to give active or passive electoral rights to foreigners as well. According to our assessment, the desire or desire is, of course, a mockery of individual parts of the Republic of Slovenia, and we estimate that the performance of a saint or saint's function is such an important or difficult task that in any way someone who knows this local community at least must perform this function and cannot perform this function by someone who occasionally visits from a foreign exotic country into this local community, meaning that an active and passive election right, elected and loved, for members of municipal or local councillors, is unacceptable to the National Party. In addition, the right to vote, given to a foreigner by the State Department, for the mayors' elections, does not seem right. We estimate that the electoral system, electoral justification, was conducted in the 1994 local elections and 1998 was correct enough to reflect the overall image of the individual local community's desire to represent them in local community bodies. I should like to stress further that it is also from our point of view, i.e. the position of the parliamentary group, unacceptable also the desire of the government, where it wants to assume supervisory functions over the functioning of individual bodies, municipal councils or individual bodies of the local community, namely the mayor and municipal councils, where the Ministry assigns new powers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of its own, according to my assessment of the political criteria, the discharge of the municipal council, the discharge of the mayor, restricts or withdraws the powers of both the municipal council and the mayor. According to our assessment, it is an excessive interference with the autonomy of local communities, which were established precisely to try to decentralise the authorities in that country, to have a certain part of the tasks of competence, to have different powers exercised by different authorities or institutions, and in this case we have established local communities. As long as this National Assembly agrees to the will and aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is interesting to stress that mayors and municipal councilors are loved, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not loved in general elections, but nevertheless wants to gain and own this competence to be completely unacceptable over people's wishes. According to our assessment, this kind of desire of Minister Bohinc, of course, destroys not only the basic purpose of local communities, but also, above all, autonomy and autonomy. Because the fact is that, in particular in certain municipalities where other political options such as the government make up prevail, the banal case or banal case will give rise to the imposition of measures in the new bill, i.e. the dissolution or restriction and withdrawal of powers. According to our assessment, such reception or such a dictatorship in the law would result in the local community having a new dimension, namely the dimension of a kind of government service within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Then, of course, it would also make sense for the law itself, if both Members and Members of Parliament were to accept Mr Bohinc's desire to control local communities, to amend article 2 of the bill, which now reads as follows: "local self-government is being carried out by the people and people in municipalities and by the wider self-government local communities" in the dictatorship "local self-government is being achieved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". Whether this is a desire and the governments of our country that have decided on these level-level self-governments - I personally do not. I personally assess that it is right that individual matters under the jurisdiction of local communities, both in terms of legislation and in terms of the executive branch of government, are the competences of people who know this matter, namely mayors and members of municipal councils and city councils. That is why it seems to me that all of these assemblies, which I have highlighted, are the abolition of elections in order to allow the mayors to vote and thus cause confusion or, in my opinion, even the unconstitutional situation between the executive and legislative branches of power; the electoral rights of foreigners, the suspension of powers and the supervisory function of the supervisory board as an autonomous committee so far and the transfer of these powers to the working body of the municipal council; and, as I have said, the dissolution of the municipal council, to the extent that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does so or to the extent that the result of the elections or a certain other situation does not correspond to it. However, I would like to touch on another matter, namely the inviolability of performing functions. As you probably know, we have been trying to establish a constitutional provision on the division of power in the National Party since 1996. Both at national and local level. We have tried this through various laws: the Law on Members, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Local Self-Government. We have always, unfortunately, voted and thus failed, and we have not been able to impose constitutional provisions that someone in the executive branch of power, i.e. the legislative branches of power, a Member, cannot exercise the executive branch of power, and that is what local communities are. This is one of the materials that we estimate is positively defined in the law. However, we fear that Mr Bohinc's desire and desire to control local communities are too large, too strong and that the powers of the government, in short, are too strong. Therefore, we cannot support this kind of bill in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you. Moreover, the position of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Maria Possonec has the floor to present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u53	All present and welcome. We believe that the proposal for a law on local self-government is one of the most important laws we are considering. This law could contribute to decentralisation in the country and the decision could also bring the local community closer. But I'm only saying that on probation. This means that this law does not fully serve that purpose. The proposal for a law confers a number of tasks under the competence of the National Assembly under the authority of the Government and the State Administration. This includes the territorial transformation of municipalities, the responsibility for the organisation and functioning of local self-government, the supervision or enforcement of the legality of operations, and measures relating to the supervision of the legality of the work of bodies in a self-governing local community. This, in our view, is undemocratic and unacceptable. How could the government control local self-government, as the name says: that local self-government. And I could list those comments. However, the greatest disadvantage of this law is that it should be dealt with together with the law on the financing of municipalities. One law defines and imposes duties and obligations on municipalities, and in another law, on the financing of municipalities, we reduce funds for normal operation. This is how the municipalities are going to fail. For example, the Ministry of Finance prescribes certain revenue for municipalities under its jurisdiction, which is difficult or simply impossible to implement - as in particular, the revenue from the compensation for the use of building land for natural and legal persons. On the other hand, we cannot execute because other laws protect certain debtors. These are high-voltage power lines, telecommunications lines and so on. Or for preschool education, the district minister prescribes the number of employees to be employed, the wages to be paid, and the congregations to pay, as they know and know. In our area, account must be taken of, in the demographicly threatened area, the high number of unemployment and low personal income earn up to 20% of the economic price. As a result, the costs of the congregation are even higher. The Minister also prescribes a standard for provincial and study libraries, the number of employees, the amount of personal income, and the municipalities are obliged to pay the costs under the local community law. And we could list it. We know that the age structure of the population in the demographicly threatened area, especially in peripheral settlements at the state border, is quite high and there are the oldest without offspring to care for them. However, they do not have enough resources, so the congregation has to cover the cost of care in their homes. That's how we pay 110 thousand tolars for one person. Furthermore, Article 132 states that the law on local elections shall cease to apply as from the date of the entry into force of this Act. This law does not contain all the elements of the elections and procedures for local elections, for example, in the national mixed area in small municipalities can only be called a general electoral commission and we must have two commissions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That is all I wanted to say is that the Council of the Hungarian Hungarian National Community has also considered this law and I will give their opinion in writing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you. You've heard the last position of the Group of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Majda Zupan? [[No, no, ……]] Aloys Juice? If I don't let anyone go, you have your word, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. So it is expected that the law or law amending the law on local self-government is one who will, of course, receive a lot of attention in the consideration of today’s National Assembly. The whole range of comments that have already been heard by representatives of the parliamentary groups are certainly those which dictate careful treatment and also an argument, if we want to be able to adopt the law in one or the other form. I believe that a number of comments are very good. I, for example, do not agree with the solutions relating to the status of local communities. Today, I am positively surprised that even those political options that were created in 1993 and 1994, when the new local government in Slovenia, which sought to abolish the local communities in Slovenia, were then the SKD, which was right in charge of the action to abolish local communities, which led to a number of problems in the municipalities, so that we were able to bring local communities into the municipal statutes as an internal form of organizing municipalities and in large and larger municipalities were usually set up. I see no reason why the status of local communities should be reduced after a new one. For even the existing public finance legislation requires that the consolidated balance sheets of municipalities be maintained in the case of local communities and have the status or property of the legal person and that the revenue and expenditure of the municipality and local communities be managed jointly and that municipal property and property of the local communities are also managed within the framework of the single estate balance of the municipality. It is said that under the existing conditions this division has been made and it is therefore not logical to leave to the municipalities the scope of the powers that the municipality can confer on local communities in accordance with the applicable laws. I believe that this correction would be necessary in any case, if it does not, or if, as proposed, it will also result in further intentions of fragmentation of municipalities in Slovenia. As to the fact that the action in 1994 to abolish local communities was just adjusted to the requirement to establish several hundred more municipalities in Slovenia than it is today. Of course, it is true that this paradox is present in Slovenia and that we have different areas in Slovenia, which have shared more or less. In many cases, however, this attitude toward local communities was similar to that of the law. In short, I propose that if the law receives support for continuation today, for a second reading, this part will be re-examined and resolved more appropriately. I believe that one of the central points may even be in the minds of a large number of Members, in fact, a provision on the incompatibilities of the mayor's function with a Member, which is the greatest link between this law and our position in the National Assembly. I have had experience with this, I was the mayor in one term, so I don't have to explain in particular how these things are going; but I have consciously not run for mayor in the last elections, because I support this idea, which is enshrined in the law, and I think that we have been talking about this for eight years and that it has to come to this final solution once. So not every four years or every two years this story is repeated - we have already discussed two laws in Parliament, but not on the topic of the law on local self-government, but on the incompatibilities of Members or elections to the National Assembly. We have to end this story once. I personally believe that this function is incompatible with at least two aspects. From the point of view of which we have already heard today, the division of power into legislative and executive, as well as from the constitutional position of Members as representatives of the entire people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because of course the mayor in a municipality may also be 25,000 inhabitants and cover one constituency or constituency, or in a 3,000-member municipality that does not even cover the constituency, there is no more representation in accordance with our constitution. We have heard something about mayors' voting rights in the municipal world today. We also believe that, and I have said this several times in coordination procedures that this solution is not good, it is simply not good, because it actually distorts the election result. It increases the number of votes of that councillor's group, of which the mayor is in the municipal council. Of course, the problems that the legislator would solve when there are about "pat positions" in the municipal world - perhaps the problem would be solved in this way, but that is not true. Of course, every mayor has to make an effort to get a consensus in his municipal council without having the right to vote, because municipal councillors vote and then the mayor has the right to exercise. In the face of all these problems, which I have already heard about and which I have reopened, I believe that the law is a good enough basis for bringing it to another treatment or to the end with appropriate additions, so I will support the law myself. Obviously, however, it will be - whether the law will be supported or not, that it will, in particular, play out how local or stately we are in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you Jože Ašič. Aloys Sok gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members of Parliament, this is obviously a law that entangles all Members of Parliament. In fact, it seems strange to me that such an important law is being sent by the government to the national assembly, and at the same time notes that the National Assembly will have to adopt some 40 laws before Slovenia enters the European Union and some of them are also systemically important laws. So it seems that it is somehow intentional to address the public in Slovenia from those fundamental problems that await us, and I cannot agree to the Minister's arguments that 8 novels and the Constitutional Court's decision are the reason for the adoption of a new law. Thus, the decision of the Constitutional Court could only be incorporated into the amendment of the law, and then, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we publish the writings, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure. Thus, these 8 accepted novels, which now, of course, burden the understanding of the whole matter, are no problem. This is resolved in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and I must say that this Minister's argument is actually attracted to hair. But when, as a citizen, and as a municipal councilman, and now as a Member, I see this situation in the field of local self-government legislation, I must conclude that every law that has been passed has been worse than the previous one. Everyone was worse than the previous one, and even the one we have today, which has been said a lot, is worse than the law in force. And that is probably the purpose of this government, which will obviously leave behind many areas, not to say disaster, but mostly things that aren't going to be what people really want. It just seems that, I don't know if this is some unwritten principle, some rule that government services, all this bureaucracy has to produce some new and new laws under added value, and thus change the rules of the game. In this, of course, prove your activity, your work. So if you come from this point of view, then I have to tell you that this is actually wrong. For whenever a law is passed that is thoroughly encroaching on a relationship in an area, and this law thoroughly interferes with relations in the field of local self-government, then, of course, confusion is introduced, there is some discomfort, and then people have to make a lot of changes. What bothers me most about all this is that in this explanation the government refers to the European Union and says, I will read, in the Rapporteur on page 15: "The reason for changing and supplementing the legal regime of local self-government in Slovenia is further harmonisation with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which aims to protect and enforce local self-government, and in particular to enhance the unity of European countries in regulating and enforcing democratic principles of local democracy." Yes, please, where do we have a unified model of local self-government? And what exactly is local democracy? Or that we're here, I don't know, but half a year ago, we rejected 50 proposals from those who wanted to have a referendum? Not wanting to have congregations, they wanted to hold a referendum on whether citizens wanted to have congregations at all. And this Parliament in which we are sitting, of course, with representatives of this government, who are still here, did not allow them. He did not allow people in the referendum to say whether they wanted to establish a congregation in their area. Nor is it true, because I was a member of the SKD, that the SKD fought against the abolition of the local community. The SKD has never fought for the abolition of the local community. SKD has fought for the reform of local self-government, where municipalities will be established as in most European Union countries, where municipalities can be formed according to territorially rounded wholes at the will of the population. And if you today record in this bill that the congregation can only be established where there are more than 5,000 inhabitants, then, of course, it is not a consolidation of the democratic principles of local democracy. That's the opposite, you're doing the opposite. This is not the way that any country in the European Union regulates this. Last time I was in Bled, I had the opportunity to listen to the director of the Austrian National Park of High Tour. There was also our fellow Member, Vukko, and I asked him immediately after that lecture of this Director if he had listened well. He says yes. For 20 years, he said that we had negotiated, negotiated, negotiated with the owners of agricultural land in the area of the national park, and finally signed an agreement on how to regulate park protection, how to regulate hunting rights in this area, and in the meantime he said three times: we did so because Austria is a democratic state. And I specifically underlined - he said because Austria is a democratic state. How about us? So we don't even let people say what they want at the referendum. Is this in harmony with democracy? No, dear gentlemen, it's not. This is something else - for this there is a concept. And now, on the one hand, do not allow people to be organized according to their own beliefs in the local community, says the congregation. Do not allow them to do so, even though the law in force speaks and has a lot of discounts. You only took one criterion -- the population, 5,000, and you said we wouldn't let that happen. And, of course, you have created citizens of two values, or you have given citizens two different rights. One was allowed and we have the Municipality of Koblje with 340 inhabitants and on the other side much larger. Thus, some have been enabled, others have not been enabled and, of course, now in this law it wants to be corrected somehow, so that it will be a criterion of 5,000, that those criteria, which were once prescribed in another law in our legal order, will be repealed to somehow destroy them. And the proposal is to continue this process in order to withdraw the legal status of local communities. And I can tell you something. Almost, and in the area of local communities, no one will even want to work anymore. People don't want it anymore because they don't have money and they refuse to do it because it's a volunteer job. And where we stayed in large congregations, we need local communities there. We need them for miles of urban roads, we need them to handle those local issues, such as the maintenance of their cultural halls, such as the maintenance of a cemetery, the operation of a winter service. Do you think it would be cheaper for the congregation to do so in the entire area? It's going to be cheaper! This will be much more expensive than today, when people themselves make sure that the road is at six in the morning, seven in the morning, when the workers and the students go to school. At least that's the way it is with us. We don't all live in Ljubljana. You gentlemen, of course, from the Ljubljana perspective, you write these laws and you look at these things like that. I don't know if you know the situation in Slovenia, but I would hope to say that it's not the best. What is something worth supporting in this law from the rest of the news, I will say in the end, but in addition to abolishing the legal status you are talking about recalling the mayor and the municipal council. Someone already talked about it in front of me. This is a grave interference with the principle of the division of power and local self-government. So if I'm thinking a little bit more politically, if we don't like the mayor, like the one in the Great Pole, then we'll call him off. But if it is ours, as in another congregation, I will later say which, and then we will not do anything, and if he does not yet know how against the law. But in the Great Pole, the Constitutional Court has stopped our government's intention. So local self-government, already the word tells us what it is; that this is an area where people manage themselves, and the government has no right to interfere in this way. So what they can do to call off MPs, mayors, municipal councillors, who are beloved officials, are certainly elections, and I am sure that this is how it must stay. You're canceling the board of directors. But why are you canceling the Supervisory Board because there is no argument here why the Supervisory Board should be replaced by a committee? To date, the Supervisory Board is an independent body of the municipalities. It would be better to enforce what the opposition demanded; that the opposition must also have its representatives on the supervisory committee, at the municipal level, so that the mayor does not have a majority in the supervisory committee. That's what's going on. That it will not come to this, as in the municipality of Podlohnnik, where the mayor of the United List is that the Supervisory Board has been unable to do any control for three years. But nothing happens because the mayor is the right political option. You're introducing this law, you're trying to legitimize the provincial self-government, and where do you have in your constitution is it written to regulate the provinces by law? This is a law that is fundamentally contrary to the current constitution. You must wait at least so long that you change the constitution if you succeed, but not that before you go with a law that violates, you definitely violate the principles enshrined in our constitution. Then the mayor votes. I don't mind if you want to mix up the law enforcement, but mix it up. We observe, however, that in many areas, the goal of this government is to make as many anarchy as possible without knowing who is drinking, who is paying. But something else - when you changed the law on local self-government four or five years ago, it was a very topical matter for the mayors to be elected directly in the municipal world. Why not come up with a proposal that most European countries know where the mayor is elected in the municipal council, and then such a mayor has no problem with the majority in the municipal world. No problem, since it can always only be the mayor who has the majority and with such a municipal council then can work peacefully. No, you have just imagined a completely new solution that is probably not tested and legal in any legal order of the European Union. Next. Why join municipal administrations with force? I think that this can be done in a much more elegant way, and I know certain municipalities in certain areas of administrative units, which have resolved the issue of the merger of municipal administrations with regard to, I don't know, the maintenance of cultural heritage, then the regulation of space and so on, for the benefit of all municipalities and also in this way they save. So here we should give some different incentives, not try to force some principle from above down. I would agree with something that is not in this law to determine how many people in the municipality are employed. In order not to make too many differences, regulation would also be put in place in the direction of merger of municipal administrations. That I won't be too long to finish. Personally, I do not see much positive in this amendment of the law. Perhaps one thing that will not, of course, be established, I hope to predict that there will be, certainly there are advocates here from different parties one for, one against and say that opinions in the parties are shared. Well, you'll count very good. However, I am convinced that the area of compatibility and incompatibility between Members and mayors should be regulated. And Nova Slovenije advocates that this incompatibilities in the law be enforced. There have been two attempts in this National Assembly. This was rejected both times. And just from one argument, which was misrepresented here by the largest parliamentary group. Mayors were said to be representatives of local interests in the National Assembly. No, dear colleagues, such a view is wrong. So Members of the National Assembly must be representatives of all the people and advocates of all local interests. However, if someone does not explain that the mayor is therefore in the National Assembly, that he is an advocate of local interests, then of course I also literally understand that he is an advocate of the local interest of his own congregation. And this, of course, is not the right solution for parliamentary work. I know that I may have resented some of my fellow mayors with what I've said, but I would be dishonest if I didn't say what I mean here in public. I think that this is the only positive part of this law, which, as I have already said, is because of circumstances, even because of the time before the elections, when such laws are not adopted, most likely or, I hope, 99.9% will not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. In the text of the law, we can read that the objectives and principles of this law are defined as the democraticity of local self-government and the involvement in the executive branch of government. In fact, when you read the entire text of the law, you can see that the purpose of the law is to remove local self - government and cause confusion in the congregations. This is evident from the contradictions in the law itself. The very basic objective and principle I have read in the introduction, the democratic nature of local self-government and the involvement in the executive branch prove this. In fact, the government is the institution of the executive branch of power. And how, then, can the democracy of local self-government be exercised here, if the government is the institution of the executive branch of power? In addition, the government, which is supposed to try to promote the interests of local self-government, is simply a government service for local self-government. What effect this service has on the functioning of the government, of course, is a very big question, but I think the answer is very close to being small or nothing. So it's not that we really have any possibility of influencing decisions within the executive branch, so we can talk so much more about the fact that it's not really about democracy. If we were to talk about the fact that we have, for example, in the Government of the Minister for Local Self-Government, which, of course, would also have the power to distribute funds, i.e. the Charter, I would believe that these aspirations are good to involve the institution of the executive branch in local self-government. However, it follows from the law itself that the institution of the executive branch has authority, that is, the government, only the interest of limiting the functioning of local self-government, but not of course the potential for the successful development of municipalities and the functioning of local self-government. The fact that the law also talks about keeping the mayor's election directly, while giving the mayor the opportunity to vote on the municipal council, although he is not a member of the municipal council, speaks of these contradictions that I mention. And that they actually cause such solutions of confusion in local self-government and in the congregation. If we want the mayor to have voting rights in the municipal council, then the mayor cannot be directly elected. Then the solution is that the municipal council elects him from among its members, and since he is a member of the municipal council, he also has a normal voting right. In this case, as now stated in the law, this is truly an unacceptable contradiction that brings confusion. The function of the Supervisory Board is new to be carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission, which is the mandatory working body of the Municipal Council. So under this law, the mayor has the right to vote in the municipal council, and at the same time we have a commission, which is the compulsory working body of the municipal council. Here, the mayor also has a direct possibility of influencing the work of this commission. The solution so far is that the Supervisory Board has a completely independent role, is an independent body, and of course also - I don't know. Maybe there are congregations where we should have, say, coalition councillors majority in the supervisory boards, but I don't know these cases myself, and I know that the opposition has a majority in the supervisory board, and I think that's the right solution that we need at the level of local self-government. The very incompatibilities of the function - not just the mayoral or the parliamentary ones, and when we look at and read this law, we find a whole range of contradictions and confused solutions. So, the proponent says: the legislator cannot be the one who enforces the laws. Again, the question arises why the mayor's right to vote in the municipal council should this incompatibilities be enforced in this law. We also read in the text: Mayors who are Members prescribe for themselves how they will act by adopting laws in the National Assembly. Please, do we have a majority of the mayors in the National Assembly? The laws are passed by a majority and, as far as I know, the mayors do not have a majority in Parliament, and there is no way they can vote on solutions that are loved only by them. And when you adopt it, the law applies to the whole country, it does not apply to one congregation, it applies to all congregations. And it would certainly be an interesting solution for those who would generally accept themselves in such a way that they would be bad for all congregations or that they would be very good for just one congregation. But, with such solutions, we face such interpretations in this text of the law. Incompatibilities between the mayor and the MP are already adequately resolved in today's legislation, now in force. Therefore, there was no need to change this doctrine or this solution, which has already been adequately resolved. However, if the aim of the proposaler is to establish absolute incompatibility, which I think should be the purpose, if they are already writing such a law, and which is supposed to address conflicts of interest, then these incompatible solutions must apply to all municipal officials, not only to the mayor. Why, though, is it compatible that a member of the congregation council may also be a member of the congregation? Why, though, is it compatible that a member of the congregation is a member of the congregation? So if we want to implement certain solutions consistently, then we need to decide whether it is the absolute incompatibility of local self-government and state administrations as such or not. As long as we are not in a position to enforce this, then do not change the solution that has been adequately resolved in the law so far. I'd understand if she was inappropriate, but she's properly resolved. An even bigger question arises to me because the concept of the law itself is such that it enforces the unprofessional exercise of the mayoral function. At the same time, it should mean that the mayor is supposed to be working somewhere to be able to perform his function unprofessionally. At the same time, this law explicitly attempts to restrict or prevent him from performing his professional duties as a Member. Then again, when you read things, but I think they're really hard to match, you'll find the following. You can be a mayor, you can be a member of the municipal council, you can be a member of the municipal council, you can be a mayor, you can be a director of a public firm, you can be a director of a public institution. However, you cannot be in the administrative body of the agency or in the public fund if the agency or the public fund is the founder of the municipality. So again, some misplaced solutions that bring confusion. And if we were to talk about incompatibilities, then in the law on local self-government, we would have to work very closely on the area of the local self-government and look at what is compatible, what is incompatible, etc. However, this law also addresses these issues in the field of agencies and funds set up by municipalities, not in the field of public enterprises and public institutions. Why would you do that? This is another indication that the law truly brings confusion in the congregations and that it raises some solutions to very, very large questions. One explanation or justification for the incompatibilities of the mayor's and Members' functions is that the State budget sets the amount of financial compensation. It is determined for all municipalities, not only for one municipality, but in fact for all and regardless of whether the mayors are here or not, this scope will always be determined and I reiterate that the mayors do not have a majority in this Parliament in any way to create or threaten other activities, if we so call them, which are also financed from the state budget. Far, far from it! But it proves an attempt to push local self-government to the brink. For it is certainly a fact that the mayors know a number of problems at the local level and that, of course, they can also convey them through discussions and also get to know the other Members and Members of the National Assembly. Therefore, better solutions can be found, both in the financing of municipalities and in the financing of other activities, and in no way in any way worse. The problem that has been tried in this law, with regard to the early discharge of the mayor or the municipal council, has, of course, arisen mainly because there has been a legal solution in Parliament, where it has been specifically determined which municipalities must have a Roma councillor. And of course, some of them didn't do it. Now it will be the reason why the mayor or the municipal council will not be released prematurely. I assure you that the mayor who failed to do so will be re-elected in the alternative elections and those members of the municipal council as well. So, I appeal to the need to examine this solution more precisely, more carefully, and not as flatly as is now provided for in this law. We have also tried to predict solutions to this problem so far, mainly through the way possible to solve the Roma problem through funding from municipalities. It seems to me that this solution, which is now written in the law, will be extremely grave and will not lead to a solution, to a much greater resistance to solving this problem. Therefore, with regard to the scope of these contradictions and the non-conformity in the law, I would actually suggest that the proposer reconsider what he actually wanted to achieve with this law. For the contradictions and solutions are such that in my view they are very difficult to resolve by supplementing the texts in further consideration of this law. And I think that at this point only those changes in the law on local self-government that need to be regulated by decisions of the Constitutional Court should be regulated. Such a concept of law, as it is now enshrined in this law, is very, very difficult to enforce with these numerous contradictions. And I think that the proposaler should really ask himself once again what he actually wanted to achieve with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Cebula, who, with Mr Trofenik of the same Group of Members, has agreed to replace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I would like to "intrude" into just a few articles of the law itself, which are the most broken down when it comes to certain questions about the continuation of the work of local communities or municipalities. One of the parts of Article 31 which speaks of the Commission for the Control of Public Consumption. I personally assess and propose an article that goes into amendment because I point out that the solution proposed is not best given that the Commission for Public Consumption Control acted alone as a single body. I am confident that the change in the status of the commission itself to the level of the advisory body of the municipal council alone will contribute to less transparent control of the use of municipal money, and will affect the members of the commission to be subject primarily to the influence of the municipal council to other mayors. Finally, the mayors of local communities or municipalities want to see that control over the use of municipal funds is actually the supervision of the work of the municipal administration. This is what every mayor wants to see as effective and actually transparent. However, this will certainly be the case for political controversies, and not least, as I said, these supervisory committees may fall under the influence of actual political controversies, because there will be no clear impact of the supervisory board. It's the appointment of the vice-martials. I am sure that the proposaler here has certainly fallen into the sense of certain problems that certain congregations have, but few municipalities that cannot be agreed on in the municipal council, which the mayor proposes in essence. And here, it is supposed to be the municipality's holy domain and the mayor's proposal, because I'm sure he'll be in the same relationship as he is now in a relationship when they can't agree with the mayor. That is to say, I am sure that in 70 percent will not be able to agree with the mayor that he will eventually act with this parishioner. And there will be even greater problems within the congregation and, of course, the work itself in the congregation. And, of course, I also object to this article. Incompatibilities. I am sorry that I am also an MP and, of course, a mayor. The agreement is not just from this review. Mr Comrade Mayor Weber and the Member have taken a thorough stand against this article. In particular, it is a matter of showing that the mayors of a lobby in the national assembly should have some kind of influence on certain decisions or laws themselves. That's not true. That's less and less true. Do you know what - I would suggest as follows: or the law on Members. We need only two, three leaders in Parliament and leave the rest to the voting machine. Everything else cannot be affected in any way, Madam Vice-President, that is how I assess. That's how I judge. We must be in the national assembly, in the parties or in the parliamentary groups - not me personally, I am probably the only case in this mandate that I have not submitted to a particular policy and have made a different decision in terms of interpretation, debate and vote. You're right about that, Madam Vice President. But here you want to present the matter as a proponent that the mayors are potentially affected by certain legislation. That's not true. Members of Parliament, fellow Members and fellow mayors! Something else bothers you. Politics, the one I have named, and eventually who decides otherwise to think publicly and also to debate publicly. We're bringing in a different thread of thinking from our field, from voter base, with problems! And certainly these debates have not been adopted well-intentioned in terms of assessing that we are bringing something that is not really possible to bring to life. But this is shown by the law itself when it is adopted that there is no way to bring him to life and, of course, the other problems that the mayors actually face in the congregations. And this is in some way competent to listen to certain ministers, state secretaries, what problems we are actually facing in the country, and especially in local communities. Association of municipal administrations in municipalities. My opinion is as follows. The merger of municipal administrations of smaller municipalities - I do not agree with the proposal that will allow the State to interfere with the internal organisation of the local community. The State has the right to require professional work within municipal administrations only association can be based on a voluntary basis and no restrictions on the number of inhabitants. In practice, we know exemplary and less exemplary administration in small or large municipalities. I see in the proposals an instrument for for forcible integration and the consequent abolition of small congregations. Disposal of mayors and municipal councils. Weber has already made this clear. I'll tell you another thing. If the applicant succeeds and such an amendment to the article of the local self-government law itself is adopted, I am sure that the mayors or municipal councils will not be resolved here on the basis of certain violations, but on the basis of the power policy of the centre. And I certainly wonder here, on the basis of what constitutional right does the government have the power to relieve the mayor who is directly elected? Or perhaps the municipal council, even though it is in a proportional way. On what grounds? If you prove to me that it is constitutionally possible for the government to do so. And I propose - I will also table an amendment - to read this article as follows: "If the government finds that the municipal council or mayor has not abolished within a certain period of illegality and irregularity, that all the possibilities for ensuring the legality of its operation are exhausted and that, in order to protect local self-government, this is appropriate and necessary, I propose to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a decision on the early dissolution of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor." This is called possible jurisdiction of the national assembly, not of the government. Article 29 to return, Mr Weber also mentioned it - as regards the right to vote. Let me briefly say: I cannot support such an amendment to the article. The mayor shall not have the right to vote, the mayor shall have the right on the basis of the decision of the municipal councils to carry out the tasks assigned to him. The mayor can't vote - he can vote on certain interests, he can vote on political or any other interests, and he can decide on members of committees, commissions and possibly on a complete policy. Let us leave this to the municipal council and let the mayor be only as the contractor of the tasks accepted by the municipal council. So much for articles that I think are not suitable for further consideration, but, of course, if the government does not adopt different views of this law, I cannot support the new law on local self-government or changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Now that there are no good ideas, reforms are usually proposed just before the elections, so that with a big and meaningful word, attention is aroused and alerted. Something like this happens to me when I read this law. Now that the region has failed because the reform of administrative units has failed - both mainly due to disagreements in the coalition - a very grateful topic has now come up and the government is trying to impose a debate on local self-government and on the regulation of municipalities. In short, this topic is in the process mainly because of the difficult situation that the government has brought us into, in particular, the dominant party of the government, which would cause voters to start dealing primarily with themselves, with their environment, their mayor, their municipal council, with their local community, and to forget at least a little about the fiasco around the wiped out and the many affairs that have escalated recently. In short, I think it's a very clear matter that actually has a completely different purpose. Local self-government is a very important area and the government is now involved, particularly in the area of competence. In fact, it intervened in all relations both between the municipality and the state, the relationship between the mayor and the Member, the mayor and the municipal council, the operation of the municipality and the control, the situation between the municipality and the local community and so on, and it opened up all the important topics, and the solutions it proposes are in some way provocative, which divide more as a force for integration and cooperation. In short, marriage brings anarchy in this area. The first area I would like to touch is the professionality of the mayor, as well as the compatibility of the mayor's and MP's functions. I think that the solution proposed by the law is not appropriate, because I think that the government and the National Assembly should have an interest in dealing with those who are testing much of this state legislation on the ground. And the mayors had to be basically plus in this national council, because these transfers back into corrections and corrections to the legislation are the fastest through the mayors. I also think that there is no mayoral lobby in this National Assembly, because we have repeatedly observed that even when it comes to outstanding local affairs, mayors vote extremely unevenly and largely subject to party discipline. I also think it would make more sense for the government to deal with what mayors we can have, whether they are good or bad, and to deal more with those solutions that would force candidates and candidates to propose good candidates for mayors, not some bad solution that is detrimental to both the local community and the country then forward. I also think that it is a very bad solution that the mayor also has the right to vote in the municipal world, because, as the mayor is a candidate, he will accept, the contractor will do so, and in the end he even has the right to hold the act and to demand a re-vote and eventually a constitutional assessment. In short, in addition to what some have already said in this debate, this function of selector, or concern about the harmonisation of local legislation with the State entrusted to the mayor, is somehow taken away from him and this is also a controversial solution after that. I think that the Law on Local Self-Government should also provide solutions for those municipalities that have Roma but do not have a Roma councillor, but they have all the Roma problems of wild locations, education, social and other problems, conflicts on the ground, etc. In short, I think that the criteria of the Roma Councillor are not a criterion for specific funding or for additional funding of the local community, but criteria should be actual Roma problems. We have congregations that have many Roma but do not have many problems, we have the patrimony of a congregation that has perhaps only two or three Roma settlements, and many problems with regulating this situation, and I think it is one of the areas that will have to be solved, including this area. The second, which is still quite controversial in this area, is the intervention of the State in local self-government, namely in the field of the jurisdiction of the municipalities. This law has not been defined at all, and it may be that the government will resolve these powers and assign jurisdiction to the congregations from case to case; but, in one congregation such, to another, and nowhere else are these matters generally resolved or resolved. It is also unacceptable for the government to decide on the formation of new congregations, for each time a political option that comes into power allows it and gives it the opportunity to form congregations in its own image and to form its political mosaic. In short, we may be subject to very large changes and short areas. [[...]] It is also inadmissible or is not normally controlled by the functioning of the local community as foreseen here. At the first stage, the government may really be in control, but the government may be able to take over even an administrative unit and be empowered to oversee local communities. With regard to the Supervisory Committee or the Commission, I think it might be best that there is no supervisory committee or commission and that the law includes regular supervision of local communities by the Court of Auditors. Let us solve all problems, things are neutral, we are not burdened by the political profile of the members, nor by the subordination of mayors or non-occupies; in short, the matter would be neutral and could be very fast, very transparent and also very quality. The following are the penalties provided for by this new law for officials. I think that this solution is very unfair to officials in local communities, and in fact there is no basis for any solution in other public servants legislation - in the way it says here. And it's actually a very specific solution that only applies to local officials. Look, we have a lot of cases where government officials and also officials tolerate big mistakes, big irregularities, there's a lot of damage, let's say in the implementation of the law on public procurement, but there's no regulation, except for the execution of any sanctions against the most responsible public official. But this is where we predict material things, and I don't know what responsibilities. In short, it's extremely two-faced and very incorrect. The same is true of the salaries of employees or management bodies associated with the mayor. Thus, we have cases in which the director of a municipal company in one or another congregation may also have twice the salary of a fellow member in a neighboring congregation just because the congregation is twice the size of the congregation. I think that's an incorrect solution. You probably don't have this kind of education solution when we have 200 schools and 800 students. It is unfair to tie these matters to the mayor's salary, and I think they should be resolved under some other collective agreement. With regard only to the inclusion of the law on the agenda, I think it is again a mistake for the leadership of the National Assembly, because this law has been included, although it still has an unconstitutional solution for the formation of the provinces at this stage. I think that the bill should be rejected and should not be dealt with before constitutional changes in the National Assembly. It's a major procedural error. It is also a mistake for the government to draw up a law on local self-government based on different experiences in different countries with different arrangements. And from each country, there is a solution to the law on local self-government, and in the end, there are completely unconstant solutions that cause more or less problems. The very enforcement of the law, I think the hands are too short. Any reform is planned and you already have experience with the European Union, you can see that all these reforms have been postponed for four, five years in the future. That is, so that all those concerned have the opportunity to prepare themselves in a timely and quality manner. But we usually accept the reform, and it is day 15 with possible transitional solutions and so on. In short, extremely little time for implementation in this area. And I think that the law proposed as it is is, especially because it destroys these solutions, which have so far been relatively solid, that this law will cause re-anarchy, re-emergence in the local community, re-rebalancies of the municipalities, mergers and movements and so on. I think that this law is inappropriate for further consideration, and I think it would be much better if, in any similar reform proposal, there were also some good basis for solutions that such a law would then bring in in perspective. Also in the formation of congregations. In short, there is no goal, there is no model, there has been a tremendous amount of empowering Bianca and there is a lot going on. Many can be abolished, some are new, some are grouped here, one there - in short, and this also has an enormous impact on the political image of mayors in local communities. And I don't think such a procedure is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, just an explanation. The law is duly placed on the agenda. You know exactly that the suspicion of the unconstitutionality of any proposed legal arrangement is not a matter for this assembly to be judged. If such legislation were to be adopted, the Constitutional Court would, of course, require an assessment of such an adopted article. My word, Mr. Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I will be brief because I will only talk about one matter, namely the legal subjectivity of local communities or the purpose of the law to abolish this legal personality of local communities. Look, I come from the congregation, one of those congregations that in their statutes provide legal subjectivity to their local communities, and I think that this decision of the congregation has been quite correct in the past. For example, I have before me even a memorandum on the urgency and prudence of maintaining the legal personality of local communities. This is a document created in one of our local communities, where there is a lot of arguments as to why the abolition of legal personality would be a major mistake for local communities. It has been quite a matter of hearing this subject today, and I am very glad that I have not actually heard a single debate on any of the Members and Members who would somehow give it to the proposer, as far as legal subjectivity is concerned. It is, of course, necessary to be aware that we have a very different situation in Slovenia from the municipality to the municipality. That we have congregations that came from local communities and where local communities now, of course, do not have a small congregation at all and we also have a congregation where divisions have not actually occurred or even occurred in the way of the municipality of Vrhnika, where the municipality of Borovnica was created by the will of the people. I've talked about this in the National Assembly many times, and every single time I take advantage of the opportunity to say it. The natives of Borovnica then decided at the referendum against the independent congregation, they did not have 5,000 inhabitants, but the national assembly then took a decision and split the municipality of Vrhnika. So much for the talk of how to respect and not respect the will of the electorate, the will of the people, and so on. It is only when it comes to disrespect that someone has no right to a smaller congregation when the matter is reversed, but shut up. A similar story is found in the congregation of Koper, of course. Thus, it seems to me that the applicant should actually take into account the first paragraph of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, speaks: the jurisdiction of the municipality includes local matters which the municipality can handle on its own and which concern only the inhabitants of the municipality. This means that we should let the congregations handle such matters by themselves, by dividing them, by the lower parts of the congregation, by their subjectivity, and so on. And speaking of which, they'd like to comment a little bit more on the story around the mayor's lobby, around the mayors and so on. Look, I was also a member of the department myself, so I also have the experience to perform these two important functions at the same time. And frankly, I'm sure the mayor's and the mayor's office is in no way appropriate, not compatible with the MP's function. He said earlier that, of course, it would be necessary to discuss absolute incompatibilities, even though the councilman should not be a member of the congregation at the same time. Well, that seems a bit excessive to me, because I think the Member is also obliged to familiarise himself with the environment in which he lives and works. Someone mentioned earlier that there's no mayor's lobby and that you don't know anything about it. But interestingly, all the mayors who advocate the possibility of retaining these two functions, in short, of bringing these two functions together, actually say the same thing. I certainly hope that the law will actually achieve incompatibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. First, it must be stressed that the government often comes with some comprehensive laws, somehow to impress the almighty, all-knowing, and that all old things need to be moved away and come with completely new solutions. Sometimes a person would agree to this if the solutions were complete and consistent in the back. The Income Act comes through the government with a comprehensive law, but when we look at where is the key part that we should have adopted seven years ago, it is that constitutional decision; and that constitutional decision is being enforced. This is a principle that is somehow involved in this law. I think it would be much simpler and simpler and even more dignified to address those key issues that are really controversial in our country, which are a product and a consequence of the necessity to introduce a democratic system. Due to the application of those changes that are necessary, due to democratic deficit, in practice. It would have been a lot easier to come up with a solution. Incompatibilities, it is clear that incompatibilities must be enforced - the incompatibilities of the legislative and executive branches of government - wherever and at any level. There's no question here. Whenever there is a conflict of interest, it is immediately a red signal that needs to be done. No, whether we're rooting for it or not, or whether someone's advocating that it's not more of a "dog" or a mayor's lobby -- that's not a problem at all. Is there a conflict of interest? If there is a conflict of interest, then let's stop talking. It's got to be that way! However, it is necessary to use this conflict of interest there, in beneficial matters. What is incompatible must be placed in such a way that the ruling part controls one position and the opposition supervisoryly. This must be applied where there is a conflict of interest through two bodies where he should not sit. And once again, let us analyse institutions or the principle of action at local level and we will quickly come to a solution, why we also need supervisory committees and what the supervisory committees should serve: in order for the local community or the community to act more legally, as far as finance is concerned, more clearly, more responsible and fair. As Ambassador Bajuk has already said, you know, because we all do what is right in principle, but if someone really controls us, we do it even more honestly. It is therefore necessary to establish these control mechanisms. We also have problems in the city. If these control mechanisms were put in place by another position, things would be clean, they wouldn't have had such an affair. This is what we talk about when we talk about local self-government. It is therefore understandable that from these items I have mentioned, of course, I am advocating the incompatibilities of the legislative and executive functions, either the mayor in terms of decision-making or the mayor as an executive branch; not least with the sent-in function. Although this relationship is not at the same level and does not have the same meaning. In particular, conflicts of interest at the same level are extremely problematic. This is also the case with the incompatibilities of municipal functions, either the mayor or others with the work of persons in public law. I agree with this initiative by the Government. However, we are not in any position to abolish these narrow parts of the congregation, nor am I in agreement with this, nor is the mayor involved in the decision-making of the municipal council, that is, the intention of the ministry. So, as long as I repeat this, this typical conflict of interest, the division of power, then we'll have a lot more clarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Given that we have a general debate today, the first reading, I would not like to touch myself in this law in the specific direction of individual articles, but I would like to point out that I have been very interested, monitoring the performances of individual parliamentary groups, presenting views and that I can assess that there is no greatest atmosphere in this Chamber, a political atmosphere in order to adopt this law. I have been closely following the debate when individual members of Parliament talk about the merger and dissatisfaction of the parliamentary function with the merger of the mayoral function. My debate was also on the Internal Policy Committee in this direction or our Slovenian mayors are "infected" that some see that there is no room for them in this Chamber. Does this mean that there is no room then neither for the councillors? I was very surprised by the view of New Slovenia that it opposed the fact that mayors who were legitimately elected by the people to this National Assembly were a disruptive factor in this National Assembly and that this function was incompatible by them, but did not point out that the function of the municipal councillor was, in some way, incompatible and of any other State body which is individual members of this State Assembly or of the world. It is true, however, that in this Chamber they also speak against the mayors, who have also run for mayors, and they have not received the elections and in my personal opinion from the rematch to those who have not received enough people's voice in the majority of 50%, because the mayor's elections are direct elections, they object that the mayor, who comes mainly from smaller municipalities, would also perform the same function as a Member. My personal opinion is that the function is compatible and that each individual should assess whether he is able to do this work both in the National Assembly and in the local level. We talked a lot about the law on local self-government, but I would like to point out that there is one other thing that bothers me; why we do not have a law on the financing of urban communities and congregations today at first reading. Why isn't that there? Whether it seems fair or unfair, I will make comparisons between the city municipality of Ljubljana and the municipality of Maribor. The municipality of Maribor barely collects budget for 19 billion, barely the municipality of Ljubljana 61 billion. I do not object to this money, to this budget that Ljubljana receives, because according to that amount and according to the legislation that we currently have in force, it also deserves it. However, tell me whether it is fair or whether we have two-rate people in this country, that someone who lives in the capital, where all the institutions of the state, the larger companies, the well-paid services, the greater personal income, and in this way also the budget of the municipalities, the rich municipalities increase, as opposed to those who in Maribor earn barely 100,000 tolars and the city budget are worse or not able to fill - the needs of people both in one or another or in the third city congregation, including Koper or Nova Gorica are the same. It is therefore my opinion that, under such important legislation, we should also consider the law on the financing of municipalities and other municipalities. We have completely forgotten the law on more coherent regional development, which was adopted solely because of the fact that these differences between one and the other municipalities would be reduced by these encouraging regional funds and by those reserved funds in the national budget, which should be reserved for more coherent regional development, some individuals or different political options interpret it in their own way. As far as the statute of municipalities and local communities are concerned, today, generally with the law on local self-government to abolish local communities, it would be a very unfounded and very political issue. Why? Completely from the professional point of view, given that I am also from the congregation where local communities were abolished. And I know other congregations where they have local communities, but I know third congregations where they tried to abolish local communities. However, the congregations are surrounded by groups of people who geographically "feed" one way or another. It is true, however, that congregations that are geographically stretched out with their places would have cut off that cell by means of the law on local self - government. I think that so much legitimacy and respect for municipal councils, we have to have the mayors in this house to define their local communities or villages or city quarters by their own statutes, however you wish. Let us leave the matter to the congregation, leave to the two - thirds of the city’s councils or municipal councils to decide. Voting rights around the mayor. I don't know why the mayor should get voting rights in the city council or in the municipal council. I don't know where that came from. If we divide the organs of the municipality into three bodies: the mayor, the municipal council and the supervisory committee, it is incompatible or inconsistent between one branch of the authority within the municipality and the other branch of the authority that the mayor will also have the function of individual councillor. I am convinced that in most cases the mayors agree that the saints should decide and the mayor executes what the municipal council has adopted. The biggest mess of this coalition or this national council would be if we passed a law that would have written down that the government would have solved the mayor or the municipal council. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Believe me, the mayors were elected to the majority elections. He was elected by the people as well as by the referendum, and he was appointed mayor by the people and will be dismissed as mayor. We must be aware of this, most, more than 50% of the people who have come to vote have decided on a man who trusts him to run the congregation. And if we let the government get rid of the mayor, that means we're going to allow this to go to the local level of one major chaos. When one is in power, say the left, the right mayors will resolve when the right ones are in power, the left ones will resolve. And that doesn't lead anywhere. We have already had such a case that the government has tried to free the mayor through the National Assembly, but we have learned that such a move would not be appropriate to allow the national assembly and thus the government to descend to the local level where citizens directly decide. The LDS representative, who gave her position as a member of the group, said that we act more than once as a patriotic locale, regardless of whether or not the mayor, is municipal or not. I think it's purely normal, biological, human and political. Everyone fights for his end, for his own part, but it is true that many times he causes someone else, that an individual decides to step aside from the patriotism place and to spread his voice in this way. If a person is affected and understands that some things do not run as they should - evenly, evenly, evenly, more consistent, regionally - it is perfectly normal for him to announce his position from the environment from which he comes. That's why we have 88 constituencies, so we have 88 representatives of the people, 2 nationalities. It is certain that we have had an experiment in this mandate, that someone wanted exactly what I have just said: by amending the electoral legislation, it is hard to cut and change this voice, which comes from all over Slovenia, in this way is also a suffocation, this is unacceptable and I cannot agree to it. I also support the opinion, as well as the position of the LDS representative, that it would be wise and prudent to consider extending the mandate to the municipal council and the mayor from four to five or six years, following the example of some European countries. It would be personally acceptable for me that the local elections for the mayor and the municipal council are every five years or six years, but if this is accepted by the majority, let the new local elections come into force so that no one will misunderstand that we want to extend the mandate to these mayors or to these municipal councils. That would be smart, smart, and people should decide about the mayor they trust. Of course, many amendments have been made to this law, so there are many concerns about individual articles and dictions. Perhaps it would be more useful for the government to withdraw this bill and some of the concerns that we have put forward today both from all parliamentary groups and individuals to prepare a new dictatorship, because otherwise we will have a lot of work on the Internal Policy Committee, because there will be a lot of amendments that will be put directly on individual articles of this law. It is true, however, that we would be able to make it easier for the government to draw up the amendment itself in the second reading and also within the coalition to harmonise it in such a way as to enable members of both the committee and the parliamentary group who would propose the amendments to support it. I know the government can't invest, but within the coalition party, they can table an amendment prepared by government representatives. However, such amendments must be well thought out, coordinated within the coalition. In view of the fact that I have listened to the debate and the presentation of individual positions of the groups of Members, I could say with full responsibility that this law is not fully harmonised or that there are major differences on individual views. At this point in time, I cannot decide how to define myself before this bill. I will try to follow the debate in this Chamber by myself. I have created my own picture in the positions of the parliamentary groups, and I fear that in the second reading it will be difficult to work to reach a law that will be in this national assembly by the year of the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Puksic to the floor, who has changed the order of his fellow Members Jerovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary! In fact, you who are sitting on the government side today are probably not directly to blame for this law being dealt with today. However, the fact is that it is not wise and it is not wise for the government coalition to prepare or propose to amend the law on local self-government a few months before the national elections. It's not smart, but it's obviously necessary for a government coalition because it doesn't have a smarter job. Although, of course, we should have it, given the clear picture that we are missing about 50 legal documents, which are European, which are linked to the entry into Europe, it would certainly be much smarter to deal with this European legislation. Today, we will spend some more than five hours on the Local Self-Government Act, almost six hours of debate. And it has already been made clear from the various debaters that, for the first time, the law is not even harmonised for the first reading in the coalition, secondly, so different views of this law have individuals that I am almost personally convinced that this law cannot be supported for further consideration. Another reason is why this law cannot be supported for further consideration. I just feel like it's a shame to spend five more hours or maybe even ten hours because it's going to be a matter of amendments. All the articles, in fact, basically all the articles should, of course, be amended and, of course, around that would develop in individual articles a rather broad discussion and debate. Therefore, for this Parliament and this government will be the best, the government will probably thank us if we do not give support to this marriage document for further consideration. Secondly, why does it seem to me that way and a few months before the national elections it is inappropriate to deal with such material? Look, I've already said several times that the Minister of Finance is the one who today is the Governor of the National Bank, then the Minister of Finance, who is today the Prime Minister, and now the third Minister and all three have promised to bring the Law on Community Financing to the National Assembly and the Law on Financial Alignment. To date, this law is not for one simple reason, since, from the first to the third, all in fact, not directly, but indirectly, they acknowledge that they do not hope to do so, because in any case most government decisions are dictated by the White Ljubljana. And the law on the financing of municipalities is the most privileged, with that change to 35% of the income, brought Ljubljana over 80% over the so-called spending. It is therefore good for this country to have all three laws dealt with together in the package. In my opinion, first of all, the Law on the Financing of Communities, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Provinces. Only in this way would we get one set and one set in this area. To this end, the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which was also adopted in this national assembly, also imposes on us. A law like the one we're talking about today, in fact, when I went over this charter of local self-government and this law, I didn't find any connection. In fact, it is contradictory with the Charter of Local Self-Government. This law further centralises and prevents decision-making in local self-government where it is necessary, or where it is only logical. As it imagines further development of this local self-government in our country, this government coalition showed about a year and a half ago when we were re-examined by the Law on the Establishment of Congregations. You will recall that only one proposal has been voted out of just over 50 proposals, i.e. only one new congregation has been set up. Of course, the excuses were different, different and different, especially around the size and so on. So that I don't just talk about it, I'm going to tell you some comparative information about how this was done in Switzerland. As far as I can remember, Switzerland is one of those countries that has slightly higher income per capita than the Republic of Slovenia. As I recall, Switzerland is one of those countries that Slovenia would like to approach. As I recall, these are even the predictions of some coalition chiefs that we will come as slowly as Switzerland in a decade. Well, if that's the case, we could do Switzerland in the local government. Switzerland is about twice the size of Slovenia and has about three times the population, slightly over 7 million inhabitants. But there are some in 3,000 congregations. The average area of the municipality is 13 sq km and the average number of inhabitants is 2,300. This is quite a large number on average, given the number of congregations. Are you going to tell me why? Because the largest congregation in Zurich has a population of some 340,000. It is important that the smallest municipality is 11 people and that it lives on the highest municipality in Switzerland at 1.925 m and has 150 population. Where exactly is such a phenomenon of development in Switzerland? Such a phenomenon of development in Switzerland is also certain in the fact that the possibility of implementing its own tax policy has been made by some municipalities into a so-called tax haven, where capital is acquired, new businesses are opened up and wealthy people are inhabited. One possibility of such a development is that in addition to taxes that go hand in hand with cantons and municipal taxes, all these taxes are collected in the congregation. And, of course, there are gora and small congregations in Switzerland. I said that the smallest municipality is 11 people. Even on the surface, the smallest congregation is 0.3 square miles [0.3 sq km]. But that these congregations also have financial support and, in fact, the most important thing, the motivation and responsibility for the common good grow out of this identity. You know, this is important. Responsibility and motivation for common well-being have been demonstrated, ladies and gentlemen, even in these Slovenian 192 municipalities. If it's anywhere, it's here. We've been talking a lot lately, it's been written a lot, a lot of things have come to the public about so-called terrible salaries in public institutions over which the government has power. Over corruption activities in some organisations, such as: SIB banka, Orion and so on, they are followed by government spending money, such as various planes, boats and so on. On the other hand, there are no major irregularities in the daily media that would occur in the local community. However, this small piece of money is so scattered and is controlled by so many people looking at it through these supervisory councils and other authorities in the local community, and it is huge wherever we turn, but today it has changed in these congregations, even though there is no tendency to do so in tax policy, which we have, of course, been talking about many times. If I go back a little bit to this proposal for a law on local self-government, to this first chapter. The local self-government in Article 2 says that the law can establish wider self-government local communities. Yes, if I recall, some, maybe 10 years ago, we had one of these coastal self-government communities, united there around the coast. Although I do not know the details of how this worked, today there is no need for any establishment of self-government local communities. For this we have and will have, we have a law on local self-government, a law on financing and, of course, a law on landscapes. Once there is sufficient wisdom and maturity, when this matter is referred to, it will not only be marked on the parliamentary trails, but then it will also come to life in practice. In my opinion, as I recall, this law was written a little earlier as a law on the provinces and, in fact, this first chapter can be, given that we have already introduced a law on the provinces by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in fact already "passe". This also shows that such important legislative changes as the Local Self-Government Act cannot and cannot be addressed by ad Hock, but, of course, changes in this area need to be substantially more thorough and carefully prepared and changed, so when they are going to change, to have valid reasons, to have what you are going to change, but not to lose even a chapter in fact all of its meaning. I will not go into any more detail because, as I have already said, it seems important and good to reject this bill and, of course, leave enough time for the new local elections, because it is three years before this package of legislation is adopted by the new National Assembly and prepared a new one, I am sure more capable of a government coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Butolone's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you for saying a nice greeting to the president, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The law that we are considering today is one of the most important laws because it touches all of our citizens. Along with good solutions, the law has also brought some novelties that I think are not sufficiently thought out, are politically controversial and do not stand for logical or legal judgement. Many of this has already been said here today, so I will try to shorten and limit myself to just three things in telegraph style. Firstly, regulation of the legal status of local communities and other close communities. Let me say that I come from an area where these narrow parts are practically absent, in seven congregations only one municipality has local communities, so that there will be no further evidence that I speak localistically. I believe that the regulation of the legal status of local communities and other communities should continue to be left to the municipalities. Because the municipalities establish these parts of the congregation primarily for the purpose of ensuring that citizens have a greater influence on decision-making in the congregation. The smaller parts of the congregation have a significant impact on the democratic decision-making in the congregation. It is also important that the smaller parts of the community, especially the local communities, are historically founded in the citizens' consciousness, as they are often mainly in rural areas within borders and in areas where there were once municipalities. I believe that the abolition of the legal status of the smaller parts of the congregation will have an impact on the increase in requirements for new congregations. In particular, if the legal status of the local community had not been abolished in 1995, the congregation would probably not be there today. Secondly, the mayor's participation in the decision-making of the municipal council is unacceptable to me. I don't know any society, an organization where someone who's not a member can decide. And the mayor is not a member of the municipal council. The mayor's voting rights significantly change the outcome of the elections. Elections, however, are at the heart of the democracy of a system. In the municipality, which has seven municipal councilors, we grant the mayor's voting rights to a party who has the mayor 12.5% of the voting rights. This is a major change in the electoral outcome. Today, it has often been said here that there is a need to separate executive and legislative power. The mayor is an executive authority in the congregation, and the municipal council is a kind of legislative authority. And now, at the municipal level, these two authorities are intertwined again without any serious need. Finally, the mayor's right to vote was disputed by the proposer himself, as in the last indent of Article 29, it is noted that the mayor must be exempted from the decision on administrative matters. Well, and finally the proposed law has also brought such a welcome dictatorship on the irreconcilability of the mayor's function with the function of MP. I personally think - and some will laugh - that this is not the right law, where it could be arranged. This should be regulated by the law on Members. I'll try to explain why. The mayor, who is also a Member, is employed in this National Assembly and is a non-professional in the congregation. Logically, a person who employs a person determines where such a person can do something and to what extent he can do something. Companies know this as a competitive clause. Of course, this is about as if the newspaper decree stated that an editor who is not a professional should not be employed by Del. The opposite is, of course, possible or, in fact, necessary. If we were to regulate the matter in the Law on Members, we could also resolve such a glorious and today so many times the highlighted conflict of interest or set of interests. In fact, the whole species - colleagues and colleagues - is inside people who are also in conflict of interest. Professors at universities, doctors, presidents of sports unions, beekeeping associations, airline connections, and I don't know what to list. They are also partly financed from the state budget. We have members in here, if not even presidents of the boards of public administrations, who are of direct national importance and directly financed by the state budget. Please, where is the conflict of interest here? Isn't he here? Only in the mayors is there a conflict of interest. All of these are therefore directly dependent on funding. The conflict of interest is therefore one of the most common arguments for incompatibility. If we had saved her in the law on Members, we would have saved her in general. Now we're partially saving her in the local government law. But if we're saving her in this law on local self-government, then at least here we're going to solve her definitively. It is said that this article 44 is simply to be recorded in the last indent: the municipal function is not compatible with the Member's function. And so be it for the saints, the mayors and the mayors. It is often said that the mayor's function is incompatible with the Member's function, because one person cannot sit in two chairs. Please! Don't blame me. My buddy's not here. We have a Vice-President of the National Assembly, who is also an observer in the European Parliament, a professor at the university, if there is any time left to lobby for Interbrew, and I do not know what else to do. And one man can do all of this, and one man alone cannot be the mayor at the same time an MP. Another time. Eyewitnesses, and that's it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If you want. Secondly, it is often obvious that in the National Assembly the mayors act localistically. I ask you kindly, as a Bible scholar, to throw a stone that did not act localistically. If I don't go too far around myself, let's remember the laws you've made by Members who aren't mayors, and I'm not going to list them. Look at the amendments to the budget. There were 200 of them. How many did the mayors invest in their congregation? Let's wait tomorrow for the debate on the national highway construction programme. How localistic you will all act in order. Not to speak when there will be a debate on the national programme for the construction of state roads. That we're localistic. That's duality. Look, everyone is bragging about going to the European Community, how successful we are if we get seven Members there. These Members must act in the interests of the entire European Community, not in the interests of our country, if they do not want to be localistic, in this case. We are boasting that we have gained our Commissioner. This Commissioner will be the Commissioner of the European Community. I can't be localistic! Then our Commissioner will fall on the shoulders of a mayor who will work in the European Community. And what is particularly important if we do not save everyone in this marriage, that is to say, even the congregational saints and the parishioners, this will be the largest congregation council in the country. Instead of the 17 mayors, there will be 30 sub-districts. It's gonna get worse. If I am a little cynical, I suggest that there be at least another mayor here and that the costs will be minimal, the Ljubljana Mayor should be by law in the National Assembly: If there is a mayor, if not the mayor. Third impression to the mayors that we're pulling two wages. According to the law, the mayor gets half the salary. In one small congregation, this is less than one meeting in the city’s Ljubljana world. I ask whether those professors and doctors who, apart from their post, also work when they don't, don't need to be here all human beings, but they do it for free in the interest of the community, or they do it for nothing. And thirdly, what about those 87 mayors who are unprofessional, either doctors, farmers, craftsmen, and I don't know what. During the previous term of office, the State was encouraged or the legislation was supposed to be adopted so that as many non-professional mayors as possible. At the time, we had a minister for local self-government who always spoke. And then there's the fourth obvious, and nobody said that here today, and I think it's important. The real reason for the expulsion of mayors from the National Assembly is the advantage in the election to the National Assembly, which, in my opinion, is not so clear at all. In autumn, 31 MPs ran for mayors or forerunners. 13 were not elected. That is to say, if the Tazadeva were so self-conceived, everyone would be without a problem in the first round of mayors. Second of all, there's an advantage anyway. No one can prevent a mayor from running for the National Assembly. Because passive electoral rights are guaranteed by the Constitution. In view of all the above, I believe that the arguments used for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] These functions shall not stand for any judgment reasoned. [[...]] Politically, however, this matter can be handled. And without a problem, I will support it myself so that it will not be obvious to me, but only if at least that minimum in there, which I have already said before, is that at least the municipal functions will be completely divided or separated from the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words. I welcome all present. I will begin with one objection to how you will measure the time, whether you would start with Mr Kangler's objection, too bad that he is not here, who has been reading New Slovenia that he is even-handed. I don't know where he got the reason for this term for New Slovenia. If he was stabbed when Mr Sok said that the mayor- MP's relationship had to be regulated, he didn't say anything about how. We believe that it is, we have nothing against it, but let it have one salary to decide what it wants and then all Members of Parliament can be mayors or vice versa. Of course it's important. I mean compatibility. Let's get one paycheck. I think it's just fine and that's how we think in our client, even though I'm not speaking on behalf of the party right now. Mr Sok ran for office at the local elections last year and said if he had been elected mayor, he would have given up office in the National Assembly. That's our consistency. Speaking of mayor, I don't have much to say, considering everything's been said. I don't want to repeat what they said to me, I just want to say that if the mayor had the right to vote on the municipal council, it seems a little strange. It's easy to bring out a saint. Let the councillors choose the mayor among themselves and the mayor and then let him run the meeting and have the right to vote, normally. What's wrong? Because there was a case in the municipal council when the president of the municipal council held a meeting, this would happen again, I don't know why we experimented with it at all. With regard to the abolition of local communities or the change of name to a nearby part of the congregation. I can't imagine the local communities being cut off either, because it seems to me that local communities as such are doing and doing well in their field. If they are removed or changed or, in any way, are they called, then who will do anything else in the local community? Who else is going to do something, I'm just curious. And how will a committee ever be set up if it's not already legal? It could be some kind of initiative of two three people, and let's get something else together, and now we're gonna be that committee, and I don't know what else. This is such a volunteer work, which is difficult, difficult, and then everyone will take over, and it will partly be just spitters in the local community, and nothing else. I don't know why you change one thing that runs right. My way runs perfectly fine and I am absolutely against such things. I have a feeling that we are playing in this system, as in the previous system of the Kardelje, which has always given some new initiatives, some initiatives that, of course, had to run nicely through the whole procedure and then turned out to be so long that everything was wrong. If certain things are good, I don't know why to change them, or even radical moves, I don't understand. I would like to stop on a small matter, under Article 64, where it is written, I will read: The Municipal Council may sign a referendum on a proposal from a member of the municipal council or the mayor. So, someone remembers, I don't think it's worth even discussing if one just remembers. I would suggest that this be, say, one third of the councillors or the mayor himself should then vote and decide and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you, Vice President. After all these criticisms, I'm going to give a little commendation. First of all, let me remind you how nice it was in the utility system. Let's just think back a little bit. Those of you back then, you're gonna pin them on me. Gardeners received salaries, libraries operated, local communities co-formed the budget and did not over-indebted. The solutions proposed by the Government are largely supported because, in my view, the mayor's voting rights are good and necessary, which perhaps because he is the only directly elected from the municipal authorities, are the most justified. In local self-government, if we look at experience in Europe, there is no real gap between legislative and executive functions. From this title, to set up this divide here and to demand that the mayor does not have the right to vote, of course he does not hold back the judgement of the most developed and experienced systems of local self-government. See, as an example in Italy, the mayor's election also brings most municipal seats to the mayor. He shall ensure that, irrespective of the distribution of the parties, most of the votes have already been made when he enters the municipal council. I also welcome the solution concerning the discharge of the mayor or the dissolution of the municipal council. I think both measures are appropriate. They need to be regulated. Not the hope of those who object to such a solution were the first to propose forcible administration of the city congregation of Koper years ago. The State is concerned and must care for the legality of the congregation. From this title there must be a system by which those who work illegally are in office. Incompatibilities. I support her. I was the mayor myself, and I resigned when I was elected as an MP. Of course, the story is that opponents of incompatibilities want to maintain their concentration of political power, for sure. Opposers want this political power to dissipate. Of course, the solution we have today is discriminatory to most congregations. Even if all 90 MPs were mayors, there would still be more than 100 municipalities today that do not have their legislator here in Parliament. They are the only ones that are questionable to me, and many have mentioned them, the status of local communities. I believe that the insubordinate local communities can be tamed differently, not least when the municipal council decides to do so, it can withdraw the status, it can change it, it can be abolished by the local community, etc. I therefore call on the Government to reconsider all these comments. We are also concerned with the question of the provinces that the possible failure of constitutional changes should be rejected or prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. A number of fellow Members have been replaced by their fellow Members, who are also reported to the floor. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would just like to touch on some of the issues that I may have touched before. The main conclusion of this proposal for a law seems to me to be a finding of the state's attitude towards local self-government. The representative of the Desus Group said that this was a concept of centralised decentralisation. I take it this is more of a centralised concept. Why? At the outset, I find it unacceptable that the government has not yet come to this Parliament, or at least at the same time with this law on the financing of municipalities. As much as has been said about this issue, about these problems, and that we do not see a solution to all of this, I think it is a matter of literally ignoring and arrogant attitude towards local self-government or the problem of municipalities. Of course, it's probably because of the fact of a sensitive subject. On one occasion there are national elections, on the other hand there are local elections and in fact politics has no power to deal with this problem, which, according to my assessment, is crucial. Secondly, why I believe that this is actually the concept of this law, the legal person of the local community, has already been said a great deal. Whoever insists on this thinking that it is necessary to prohibit the legal person in general to local communities, but not to give this provision to the municipalities for them to regulate in their statutes, then, in my opinion, he does not know life in reality in this country. He doesn't know. Where there are small congregations, they can function from one center. As a rule, at least to the extent at this point, larger municipalities cannot function successfully if they do not have legal persons of local communities. Simply where this legal entity is terminated, the belt falls with the shoulders of the people. They say, now have a congregation, do what you want. And we come out of the rain under a drop. The next thing I would focus on in this debate is the liability of municipal officials in damages. It's nice and it's right that this was written once in a law for officials. But why only for municipal officials? No, the government should come when it comes with such a concept for local officials, it must also come with a solution or at least predict it, a solution also for state officials or high government officials who can, and we know also from cases, can significantly harm this country more than at local level. I even have the feeling that there are real criminals at local level during this period of 10 years after the introduction of local self-government. When I read Article 17, or this chapter. Which, in fact, is not true. I am convinced that local officials are to be mayors, parishioners, saints and also remain very large for this country and for the individual municipality, and that, according to individual cases, we cannot generalise and even potentise this issue, or even on a national level. By the way, to recall once again the anti-corruption law and the conflict of interest, this provision was also adopted in this law, so that all municipal officials will have to report to the new office on the property situation, including those municipal councilors who may receive a monthly meeting of five or ten thousand. We're actually hunting a thief who's not even there, and we're actually missing millions on the other side, but they're untouchable. Before I finish, there's something else about incompatibilities. I think that Mr Butolen has said everything, but I would only add to this when he spoke, or when he spoke before my fellow Member, Chebulj, they spoke to the Minister, objecting to the Minister. Rather, it could harm them, as it did in the performance of their mayoral function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Jerič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members. I'll start where Mr. Rokavec is finished. I, too, almost fully agree with the debate of Mr Butolen, a fellow Member. I would like to stress that in my view the adoption of the law on local self-government is necessary. From 1993 to today, we have adopted eight amendments and additions to this law. One of the important reasons for the adoption of this law is also a series of new laws in the field of public administration, which we have also adopted in this mandate. There are many solutions to this law, and I agree with them, and I fully support them. Which, I think, is well said by our representative of the delegation, Mrs Orzmova. With those solutions that I don't agree with, let me just say for a little while, I'll say, I'll give them to you. I disagree with the mayor's voting rights. In my opinion, too, the limits of division of powers at local level are undermined by this. The mayor is in some ways an executive branch of authority at local level and the municipal council is legislative. And I think this is a bad solution, not only in the sense that this also changes electoral results in some way, but also in this constitutional principle of power-sharing at the local level. As far as liability for damage at local level is concerned, I agree, and I know that the government has just come with this solution because we are currently considering the law on local self-government. However, I expect our government to respect and implement this solution consistently for all the authorities in this country. This is said to be a similar solution in other laws that will come to order a little later. As far as independence or the legal status of local communities is concerned. In my opinion, it is better to leave this solution to the congregations or that this is regulated in the municipal statutes. I think that the councils, including on the proposal of the statutory commission during this period, have taken the responsibility for the solutions in this area and in my opinion it is better to leave this under the authority of the local community rather than to regulate it in law. In some ways, I would also support this idea, which Mrs Cvet gave, around the length of the mandates. Not for the reason that I'm also in the mayor's office right now. I think it would be good to check the lengths of mandates at all levels and decide on the best solution at the local level. I also do not agree with the solution enshrined in the law on the discharge of mayors or municipal councils, which is the responsibility of the government. In my view, if this extreme measure is applied, this should be the responsibility of the national assembly. I believe that they have led the proposer with good intentions, but in my opinion it is a better solution to keep this within the competence of the national assembly. As I said, I will support the law because it seems necessary to accept it and, of course, to install or adopt some new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I have already said most of my views in the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, and I have very little time left. I think that, despite all these concerns today, this law needs to be supported in this consideration and given the opportunity to be upgraded in the second and third readings. It's about local communities. It was certainly not the intention of the proposer to remove local communities from the law. However, it will probably be necessary to examine the possibility of preserving the status of the local community while avoiding the irregularities that led the proposer to these proposed amendments. I already said in the introduction that I am aware of the importance of local communities and that local communities have played an important role in all periods so far. It's about surveillance. The Court of Auditors shall, in addition to the others, exercise professional supervision. And this has already been arranged in the congregation. It is a political oversight that can be carried out by a commission which is an organ of the municipal council. However professional or not, it depends, of course, on the composition of this commission. And what was repeatedly exposed, and in the introduction, I also expressed this fear that this would be mentioned. These are accounts between political parties or coalitions at the state and local level. Certainly, the law does not allow that to happen. The law proposes or states that the discharge of the municipal council or the dissolution of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor are possible only when all legal remedies are exhausted. Thus, political parties alone cannot achieve this, neither in the national assembly nor in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Colleagues have already said a number of things, but everything is not yet exhausted on this subject. That something needs to be done in this area is probably what we all agree on. It is also true that we do not respect the legislation we have. You probably know that even in setting up the congregation, the ruling coalition was the one who did not respect what we had. On the other hand, I would say that perhaps the approach was not the happiest. Allow me to read just one sentence in chapter two, Reasons for adopting this proposal, which we are considering today: "The reason for changing and supplementing the legal arrangements of local self-government in Slovenia and for further harmonisation with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which aim to protect the established local self-government, in particular the greater unity of European countries and so on..." Ladies and gentlemen of the jury! I'd like to remind you that that's not true. Europe does not have uniform legislation in this area and will probably not have it for a long time. The fact is that it does not even try to unify it in the European Union, for a simple reason, because there are many countries in the European Union that have a completely different historical experience, a completely different history, and it is not possible for Portugal to have the same local self-government as Ireland or Norway or that Belgium has a very similar local self-government. It's not working. They also make that clear in the European Union. Except for those basic principles that bring this local self-government closer to people, that means people make decisions. This is what is opposed in Slovenia. This is said to be a decision at a referendum that we would like to make in Slovenia because you are afraid of it and would like to end it. This is contrary to the principles of principles in the European Union, not what is proposed. Each country has something of its own and does not even try, and this is said publicly to unify local self-government, this area of local self-government at the level of the entire Union. But the second thing I'd like to say is this. The following quote, which will be very short, is even shorter than the previous one, is set out in Chapter 3.2, and it reads: "The bill conveys a number of tasks from the competence of the National Assembly to the powers of the Government and the State Administration." Here, too, I would like to remind you that, not that the European Union principle is approaching, but that it is moving further and further apart. This means that if the National Assembly loses jurisdiction in this area, the government will be able to move by local government, by municipalities, as much as it will love it. Especially if the mayor is not out of "our" political option, ours, of course, in connotations. The fact is, if we look ahead, the government will be able to bring together smaller congregations if it feels necessary. It will also be able to determine the boundaries of the municipality if it seems that any municipality, especially if it does not have the right mayor from the right political option, that it has, I don't know, too much of an area or something like that, will be able to suspend the mayors, and this has already been tried in the previous term, and then it was somehow just seen that it doesn't make sense. She'll be able to get rid of the municipal councils. This decision will, in essence, be a decision that will distance these decisions from people. This is contrary to European legislation and there will be no approximation. The fact is that the government will be able to control or intervene substantially in those municipalities where the mayors will not have the right options. That's a fact, and that's something to be afraid of. Now, perhaps quickly, something about the chapter that speaks of the narrower parts of the congregation. I think here mainly local communities. The fact that a narrower community does not have an element of the legal status of local self-government would be harmful in a number of cases. The fact is that different parts of the municipality, especially when it comes to rural municipalities, where we have a urban centre, then very rural areas that have completely different needs and usually these rural areas are smaller, and these people are not able to prevent the kind of shit that's from the center. Today it is elegantly saved by local communities, which, of course, have their own gyro account, which can also raise funds and have them to a certain extent. It could be said that in the local community they compensate for the lack of social standards that the congregation cannot afford. However, because they have their own money, they have a sense of decision - making, and this is also some support and support for activities to decide for themselves the availability of money in a certain amount. It is true, and this time it must also be acknowledged that it is imperative to agree on powers between the mayor and the local communities. And I'm going back to the political field because that's what's going on. If the mayor doesn't have the right color, they can cook it for him in the local community because he's in charge. But of course this is the problem of the second branch, it is called control, which does not work for us, but because of the supervision work, there is no need to change the law on local self-government and abolish local communities. From my own experience, I can say that this relationship between local communities and the mayor can be settled. Moreover, if the local communities were to abolish the Jewish account so that they could have a certain amount of money themselves, it would be a penalty for their work and punishment for correcting the lack of standards that the congregation cannot give them that the wider community cannot afford. The fact is, in the local community, they cover this gap by elevating money with voluntary work, providing material, providing services and similar things. It's quite possible today. And then there's the other one. From the center, small problems, which are large in the local community, are not visible, they are irrelevant in the center and because of bureaucratic planning they do not want to be seen in many cases. I could also list a bunch of reasons why local communities have to stay as legal persons. Now, what I didn't want to talk about was incompatibilities. I was one of those Members who, in the previous term, had always supported this compatibility so that the mayors could be Members without reservation. Now there's something I'd like to say. But if the mayors now think that we can't be in a third-class world of any kind, beekeeping society or anything like that, and we don't get any compensation for it and we don't want it because we just want to work, and if there's any teacher or maybe some doctor who only gets that fee and the mayor has the budget, he's doing public service, he's doing public finances, and no one's seeing it, then it's embarrassing that people like that are just telling us what we shouldn't be doing right now. It's a bit of a twisted morality. This is a conflict of interest. Here you vote as a legislative authority on how much money you have, and there you have the executive power of money, and no professor does it, no member of the world does what a beekeeper's office does, or even if it's a sports society. The mayor's doing it. So I don't want anyone to give us the brains in this case now, if we don't get anything for our own performance in what public institution world, while on the other hand, I can't accuse anyone, I have to say it publicly - but it can come because you have the money at your disposal. And I wouldn't want anyone to convince me today that my decision was to vote in favour of the mayors being able to have compatibility with the MP, that I made a mistake at the time. But I wouldn't want that, and that's why I think it was inappropriate what we heard earlier on this side. I'm not gonna mention names. But how will I vote against incompatibilities, because I think there will also be an amendment, and I will make my decision, given the discussions that will take place. But until now, I've always approved of it, but now I'm going to see how the debates are going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Vukko, in agreement with Mr Komljanec, who would be different in turn. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In my performance, I would focus more on those solutions that I think should not remain in law. In other words, I believe that the proposed law is entirely appropriate for further consideration because it eliminates certain shortcomings and contains individual solutions that have proved not to be optimal in practice. The style for solutions which I do not think are appropriate or useful in this case, and I assess that they need to be eliminated further, but in particular those relating to changes in the status of local communities. The issue is that legal entities would be taken from the local legal communities as part of the congregation. Personally, I think that the current regime is quite appropriate and that when the amendment was being corrected, this issue was settled in a meaningful manner. Today, I know friends of lager beer at the Gorenjska Society and they have legal personality. I think it is unwise for those local communities that have been regulated by the statutes of the local communities to take this into account. I think we'll do more harm than good. And last but not least, it's a reflection of some confidence in these environments. The problems posed by ad persons, due to possible under-hearing, the lack of a culture of dialogue between the mayor on the one hand, on the other, the local community, cannot resolve this law, even if we change it. I think it would be pointless to have a new centralisation in some way at the local level. That's why I object to this solution. And let us leave some autonomy to these narrower parts of the congregation and leave the congregations to decide for themselves, to judge the situation in their territory, and to decide by statute whether they will have legal personality. I do not take local communities as a municipality in the municipality, but as an integral part of the municipality in a functional, organisational and financial sense. As far as I know the arrangements of the congregations, where the smaller parts also have legal personality, this works out perfectly exemplaryly. The next question that I do not agree with or with the solution is what has already been said today. I have the question of the sense that we have written down in the law that the mayor has the right to vote. I'm not sure that's what the mayors want. And I agree in some way with all those who point out that this issue may also be a matter of changing the electoral results. This solution would, in my opinion, be optimal if I had already decided in the basic law to design local self-government on a different electoral system by which the mayor would vote. It is the so-called representative election system of the mayor, where the mayor is usually the first on the list of the party to win the elections and automatically becomes mayor and then has all the rights and decisions. I think it is necessary to examine further the reasons for the mayor's discharge procedure, because here we are moving to a sufficiently slippery area. And a very restrictive explanation must be put in place, because any weakening could pose a threat to politicisation on the one hand and on the other. There's still a point to be made here. As for the incompatibilities of the mayoral function with the post of Member, however, colleagues of Butolen have not added much after the discussion. I think he's poured some pure wine all together, and I fully agree with him, even with his conclusion. I support incompatibilities myself, but I believe that three assumptions could be met. First, an appropriate electoral system, which also forces us often to think globally, and every now and then we do a little local work. Secondly, to establish non-compatibilities also with the law on Members. That would be the optimal solution. And what Mr Butolen said in the end is that if the absolute incompatibility of municipal functions, which of course does not include, I apologize, I did not understand that this incompatibilities would include the presidents of beekeeping, athletic, air relations, because it is not a municipal function, it is a civil society and the functioning of every individual in civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will try not to repeat what has been said, but I will probably have to repeat something, at least to express my support for the ideas already spoken, and I think. I'm a little embarrassed and sad when I look at the proponents that I know have worked so hard with this marriage. But this is one of the rare laws because we are very unanimous all of us, the opposition, the position. The virtually very rare exceptions that have taken place today have opposed the majority opposition, the regulations or proposals we have today at first reading. So we are almost alone in local communities and, of course, I also think that it is not possible to change a system that works well. At the moment, it seems that this system in the field of municipalities, local communities, works well and should work in this way. Let us, for God's sake, not only determine, define, prescribe, direct, limit. If some things work within a framework, of course they work well, contractually well, so be it. And in this case, as regards the powers of local communities involved in municipal budgets, financing is clear, it is not a dilemma, it works well. Let's let them continue to function so well. However, if there are exceptions, there must be another regulation, we cannot change the whole legislation simply because there is perhaps a thing that does not work well in a congregation. The mayor's vote. Of course, there's no need for me, I won't repeat it, actually, the election results are changing. We should change the electoral legislation if we are to achieve what we want to achieve with this matter. However, since this is some kind of interference with existing legislation, of course it is not in itself good and even I think it is questionable if it goes to the Constitutional Court, how, in view of the change in the actual election results, the Constitutional Court would judge. The theme, of course, has been the Parliament and the previous ten years, but it is compatibility, incompatible functions. There has been a lot of talk here about conflict of interest, conflict of time, conflict of presence and many other possible conflicts. Of course, I see that many times there is a conflict of interest, but there are many. Consider a practical example of what has been said about conflicts of interest. We have a law on the capital to deal with. Here are some saints of the Municipality of Ljubljana. And there they think as saints of the Municipality of Ljubljana and here as Members. The conflict is evident. We are regulating some things from the point of view of the country, the higher-a-vis of this city, and of course in the person of the Member and Member of the City Councilor or the saint is, of course, a conflict. Because these interests are not harmonised. But any area we come to, we'll find these conflicts. Therefore, these conflicts are not essential in this case. They are not essential because each of the Members comes into conflict with something at some point. If we want to solve this, then, I've said it a few times before, then we can only, in the Miklavž municipality, have a wonderful man who emptys the trash bin, Loyzek is his name, only he can be a Member, because he mostly does that. And he won't have a conflict of interest. But this is not the purpose of the Members and not of the others. Speaking of which, let's take a look elsewhere. In one of the materials that had been prepared before, it was how it was regulated across Europe. Except for Italy, as far as I can remember, and Greece, even in Italy, it is only large cities where there is no such incompatibility between the MEP and the mayor. And we actually have that in practice. The parishes of the Municipality of Ljubljana and the mayor of the Municipality of Maribor cannot be a member, since it is already stated in the statute of these two municipalities that he must perform this function professionally. We already have these limitations, and perhaps some other major municipalities will be able to imitate and write down after this model. Maybe even where she is, but I don't know. [[...]] But one day we have to take something. Many will not like and blasphemous of what I am about to say: the Member is not a amphibian, the Member is a amphibian. The Member is indeed a constitutional Member of all the people, but that does not mean that he is not also a Member of the region from which he comes. This does not mean that he is not a member of the political party represented in this House. One and the other is this Member, and the Member of all the people, and the Member of his territory, and the Member of the political party. And these are the facts we have to accept. It's just about compatibility and incompatibilities. Local interests are the legitimate interests of this people and they must be present in this House. And they're present, not only through the mayors, but through everyone who comes from some environment. Here, in my judgment, it is pointless to think about it at all and thus propose. There are two very short cases. Decreasing the financing of payments, so to speak, from 15% of the county's annual salary to 10% of the county's annual salary. In these percentages, congregational and city councillors find everything they do. This does not seem reasonable to me, for in one way or another, no congregation reaches this 15%. And this is another matter that should be left to the congregation to determine for itself how much money it will pay to the councillors for the meetings. And that's all. The discharge of the municipal council and the government. For the first moment, I was also strongly opposed to the government doing this. And even now, I don't like it. But we have to be right and read everything it says. It says that the municipal council or mayor can write this decision when it is determined, but then it goes to the administrative court, goes to the judicial branch of power, and there is a Supreme Court in the administrative court. It's a guarantee that there's no politics. Because I'm too long, they're warning me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In today's debate, I am also having a very pleasant time and I find the debate extremely interesting. Only if I comment on the statement made by someone who said that this is one of the most important laws adopted by the National Assembly is it, of course, highly appropriate for a person to consider what this actually says about the thinking of some Members. I don't think this marriage is as important to me as any marriage. However, I wonder, like some other Members, that in fact the existing law on local self-government is not so bad that it should necessarily be amended in this case. I think that some other laws, as has already been mentioned, are more necessary to change, for example, the law on the financing of municipalities and perhaps others concerning local communities. But it is in regulating relations in local self-government that the authorities seem to have a tremendous amount of ideas and an extremely high interest in regulating this area in one way or another. However, there is absolutely no interest in the regulation of the financing of municipalities or in the fact that it is powerlessness. How many times have we Members, at least some of whom know this area relatively well, at least so I am sure, pointed out that the funding of municipalities is not appropriate to a different level of European legislation, regulation. However, nothing happens in this area, even the opposite. The trends of the Minister of Finance, as well as the policy options at the LDS summit, I will not talk about LDS as a political party at the local level, but at the summit, in the leadership of the LDS political party and possibly the United List, as well as some Members, the tendency is for financial resources in the local community to even be reduced, but not increased. In this way, we cannot achieve independence and efficiency in the local community. And here it would be necessary to imagine, and here it would be necessary to engage and use some extra energy in order to settle this area. I'm telling you the truth. Okay, well, I hope you'll take care of that, too. As far as this proposed law is concerned, I find that some of the broadest consensus is unlikely to be found. There is too much interest in this area, so that what will be decided will be decided as politically here in the National Assembly. That's definitely it. Of course I speak for myself. I will respect the decisions of the party or the parliamentary group as much as I can. Logically, we have different views on this. This is present in all the parties, so there is nothing to be surprised about. I say, however, that I clearly appreciate that this area is not so poorly regulated so far and that it is not so wrong that any drastic change is necessary. I would rather expect, if anything is already changing, as I said, that the local community would be given new powers, greater powers in particular areas and therefore also provide financial resources. I've already told you where I expect such increased powers, but there's no way I'd like this to work out. I have in mind the concern of the local community, the greater concern for economic development, the development of agriculture, tourism and so on. In short, in this area local communities should also be given greater powers and resources. Life can't be organized from the center, but it can only be realized on the lowest cell, it's said on the local level. Therefore, I would expect additional powers as well as additional financial resources. In fact, this bill does not refer to certain powers of the municipalities or local communities. You do not specifically mention in the law what powers it has, but you travel to existing legislation. Therefore, the local community will determine by statute from the framework of existing legislation, if I understand it, its competences and perhaps also its statutes. I'm not going to comment on certain solutions, because you've already said them, but let's just say I don't agree with the mayor having the right to vote. Some representatives, members of the LDS, also disagreed. I think it's right not to take that into account. I may also disagree the most with these discharges of mayors and municipal councils, although these are extreme cases, this must be said. In fact, neither the municipal council nor the mayor for any of its normal activities or its normal functioning, respect for the law are being dissolved here. This is an extreme case where no other solution is actually possible or when there is a serious breach of the law. The solution is certain, but now the question is whether the government or parliament can have this power. I am also more inclined to believe that this competence would only be vested in Parliament as such as a last resort. What has been said with regard to self-government local communities, with smaller parts of self-government communities, i.e. with local communities, I would say that these things are different in Slovenia. I would also advocate the view that where congregations are very large and cover vast territories, the abolition of local communities as legal persons would be a mistake. I've already been president of the local community myself. I'm still working on this level if I have time. I certainly know this issue very well. I have also been a congregation counselor for ten years, and it is also time for me to retire slowly. But as I know these things, and I know that if we take this authority away from them, the initiative in this area is going to be an enormous fall for the citizen. And that'll be a shame for Slovenia. Really. We shouldn't do this, but try to respect it. My assessment is that each local community, or every municipal council, as it has now been, should decide. I don't agree that we should change this at this point. Maybe sometime in the future, but not at this point. It's my personal opinion, but everyone thinks differently. I agree, say, with the Austrians about responsibility. This needs to be welcomed, I welcome this, although some of these things need to be settled then with regard to the vote, because only those who have adopted an illegal decision or act or anything else should answer, those who have voted in favour. It is not possible for the entire collective, not all municipal councilors to be responsible for any illegal decision or economic damage or anything else, but only those, because you are talking about it, but how we will then accept it into the law itself and into the statute. Then it really has to be written down how someone voted. That's a little hard. This is not so regulated today, since in most municipalities we vote by raising our hands. Some place is voted on by voting devices, where it can be determined, then it is necessary to arrange this in order to be electronic or otherwise in order to show how someone has voted. This has to be arranged, you have to be aware of it. Otherwise, I support this and I would very, very much like to see this responsibility passed on to everyone else, including Members of the National Assembly. That, too. Because I am running out of time, because I say, I hope that these things will be substantially improved in the second reading and that you will take these comments into account if the law receives support for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u93	The proposal for a law on local self-government also contains a chapter on the referendum, which I think is particularly current at the moment and in the interest of further finalising the law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the arrangements, as the current proposal brings them, do not interfere substantively with the previous arrangements, as they only introduce partial changes. Instead of an advisory referendum, we have a consultative referendum, which, of course, has a moral and not binding right, we have a shorter deadline within which an initiative can be given, we have an increase in the number of voters needed to apply for a mandatory referendum, etc. But these are questions, which, however, remain weak in the place that we feel now specifically in the event of a referendum on the act on the construction of a religious and cultural centre in Ljubljana as weak. The solution to the proposed law is insufficient to the extent that it does not offer all the options that the city council or the mayor must have in the event of a request for review or a view of the constitutionality of a specific referendum initiative. This tool does not already have the law in force. As a result, a decision was recently endorsed by the City Council to verify the constitutionality of the current law on local self-government. In order to avoid such processes, which are very, very important, problems in the future, it is undoubtedly necessary to supplement the law with those criteria that give opportunities and tools into the hands of the authorities themselves to give the initiative to review certain initiatives and their constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sušnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When I read this law on local self-government, I was afraid because I almost couldn’t believe that such a text could be such a bad law was so coalitionly coordinated. When I heard the opinions of the other parliamentary groups, I was a little more clear. Apparently, this law, as it was formed, within the Ministry of the Interior, was created under, I will say, a shadow, or under pressure, of the number 60, 60 former congregations, was created under the impression of a municipal system, which apparently still has a stake to follow. I am pleased that such opposition has also been expressed by the parliamentary groups, which also gives hope that the marriage could be better. That the law is so is also due to the fact that the national assembly in this reference is absolutely underlying with local self-government, which is one of the key issues. The proof of this is that you have abolished a separate commission in the National Assembly, which would deal with local self-government, that as a result the Government's independent office for local self-government was also abolished, and the result is a law showing the relationship of the Ministry, which should take care of local self-government, to local self-government. In this area, more should be done if we had an office, a separate office for local self-government. If we had a commission in the National Assembly to act and address the area of local self-government, it would probably not be stuck in the landscape law, as we are stuck where we are still standing. Instead of correcting the situation with the proposed law, strengthening the position of local self-government, this law constitutes a grave interference with the autonomy of local self-government, it is only for some, I will say, prohibitions and restrictions that are not acceptable in any case. I would like to say first of all that it is totally unacceptable for me to transfer powers from the National Assembly to the government, both in the event of the establishment, transformation of the municipalities and in the case of the proposed proposal for the launch and implementation of the procedure for the discharge of the mayor and the municipal council. In the latter case, I think that the discharge of the mayor or the recall of the municipal council is possible only by the electoral body, which is another story and I think we could follow. I also find it entirely controversial in this law to sanction the compensation of a municipal official or to pay some compensation. That's kind of strange of you to think of it, but you suggested it only on a municipal level. You could say that it's like "get a chicken thief" or whatever's bigger, but you can't get away with it or you can't control it. As far as the mayor's voting rights are concerned, I don't think it goes into the concept of law. If we wanted to give the mayor a vote, we should also elect him as a member of the municipal council. Here it can come to, I'll say, a very serious disturbance in the functioning of local self-government. I fully agree with what we have already heard today that, above all, in small municipalities where direct elections are taking place, both members of the municipal council and members of the mayor, the election result can be put entirely on the table. It is interesting, however, to see a dilemma arising from the proposed abolition of the legal personality of the local community. The relation to this issue clearly shows how the reform of local self-government in Slovenia has not been carried out. The fact is, we have heard this from the debate today that everyone is finding that the great municipalities of the municipalities, where the reform of local self-government has not been carried out in terms of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, find that without local communities as legal entities, because local communities without a legal entity are essentially not meant to provide and cover the whole area of such large communities. I especially believe that this applies to the unconstitutional Koper Congregation. I believe that the Municipality of Koper, without the help of local communities, which must be well qualified, is unable to carry out all the legal tasks in the entire congregation. Here we are probably prisoners of the system of irregular reform of local self-government and it will probably be necessary to agree that where it is assessed necessary, local communities, as legal entities, will continue to do so, but this must be left to the municipal world. In the end, all I would say is incompatibilities and lobbying. See, by entering the European Community, where lobbying is an established law in the way it works, as an example of lobbying would indicate here that in the past we have witnessed the lobbying of librarians who have achieved their own, that I do not speak of veterinarians, the veterinary lobby has, I will say, influenced the adoption of such veterinary legislation that has made the countryside significantly, significantly more harm than the possible mayoral lobby has done if it has already worked in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Spindler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Just for a little while, because most of it has already been said, what I'm about to say. I'd just end up adding that there's a bunch of things dealt with here that don't practically fit into this law. Among other things, this function is whether the mayor is a Member or not. This is absolutely not the case, this should be resolved in the parliamentary law. I also disagree with the vote. I generally agree with what Mr Butolen and Mrs Zalokarev have said, as well as all the other discussers. Mostly these things are assigned. However, I think that centralisation is the main reason for this law, especially if the state is going to go so far into the exercise of local self-government, because it is beautifully and correctly written in the European Charter, and I think we have to stick to it. We adopted this European Charter in 1994 and Slovenia is also a co-signatory of this European Charter on Local Self-Government. In the end, I would just like to ask myself whether now is the time for the adoption of such a law as is now being submitted with all the innovations that are now being presented from the provinces and other changes that may be necessary but are premature for this time. Earlier, we should be able to touch on the law on the financing of municipalities, which is by no means appropriate, despite the fact that we are praying here, not only the mayors, but also all the other Members, because this thing "does not work". We also have written in the previous law that if a country imposes something on the local community, it must provide money. Now the municipalities, the state somehow forces them to do certain things within the municipal budget, and they are left without the money that should be transferred from the country. I would suggest that, even when we adopt this law, we approach the adoption of the Law on Community Financing as soon as possible, as this is actually an increasingly serious problem in all local environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I would first ask the proposer or Mr Minister and his co-workers where this law was harmonised. I know that he has been coordinated, but from today's debate he follows undeniably - I have been following - no Member, as I have heard, has supported the abolition of the legal personality of the local community. With the exception of Comrade Yuri, no one has supported the mayor's voting rights. And given that I know that there have been some coordination, I ask where the applicants have been given a mandate to come to this national assembly with these solutions. No one here has put some positive faith in these solutions, and I also assume that this has not been harmonised. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to some mentality and methods that have disintegrated long ago and are rolling in our country, in the executive power and also in the legislative authority. This system of methods is not unique only to the internal ministry, it must be said, but rather to a large part of the executive power, if not to the whole. If we are a little self-critical, even to this national council, we are Members. It's a law-change mode. And I'm putting this marriage into this fashion. For a long time nothing has been done in the area of the regions - we know why - also because there is no consensus between the position and the opposition, because we should have changed the constitution, so something had to be done. And the easiest thing is that someone boasts that we've adopted some kind of marriage. I have heard allegations today that some solutions are good. When I asked some of my colleagues who they were, they couldn't tell me exactly. And I don't see any good solutions. I see different solutions, but I don't see good solutions, but they're different. And I'm asking you where this is taking us. We are now ahead of the new parliamentary elections, and then the new parliament will be in a bad year. I can't imagine how this thing is gonna go. We will change the law, followed by harmonisation of laws and bureaucracy in municipalities for the adoption of internal legislation or regulations of municipalities. Since there will be a lot of confusion, the ministry will have to give new instructions, we will keep bureaucracy in the ministries, maybe even under-law regulations, and then we will have the law in line. However, as the new parliament, the new pressure of the Members, the new ideas of ministers to feed the people with new regulations, will come again, and the matter will be repeated and the red tape will be exasperating this country and the congregations. Gentlemen, this fashion should end once. Of course, we need to ask ourselves what needs to be changed. In my opinion, it is imperative to change and introduce a passive electoral right. Since there is a European category on the local level, this is necessary. In the case of Velika Polana, the Constitutional Court has issued a decision which does not have any time limit for the national assembly to coordinate this. But I think it makes sense for us to arrange that, too. It's an emergency. And if we put these two together, we can quickly find out that with one emergency procedure or a reduced procedure, we change all the necessary changes, we issue a purified text and we have legislation that people are accustomed to and that is slightly different from what is proposed here. I would like to point out that one of the fundamental rules of quality law is also that the right is firm. The law can be solid if it does not change too often. If not, we have a change every day and we bring confusion. Why not let the congregations and the citizens and the mayor and the councilmen and everyone else in the congregation become accustomed to certain regulations and then enforce them. Or is it just because it's fashionable to change the law, to wave, to change it, and to do red tape, and there won't be any results? We can do this forever, we can feed ourselves. That's counterproductive. I have said this in this case, but we still have a number of these cases in the National Assembly. Therefore, there is also an appeal for other ministers, as well as Members, who submit to every law and do not say that the law is not good or we do not need it, but everyone is looking for a partial, partial interest in what will flow into it, in order for one of his small ideas or his small interests in the law to be composed. And the matter goes on. The red tape of the sepsis is multiplying and the country is infuriating. I could talk about the many solutions that are here. And I'm just going to try to cut in, because I have very little time. Supervisory Board, we have a commission now. Is the solution better? No, different. I think it's worse because it makes less sense to control. The provinces, the unions, the associations, the joint administrations. Please, let's stop this now! We have to change the constitution and we have to make landscapes and stop creating some organs that will spend money, cultivate bureaucracy and invent. They have no sources of funding and all of this is ultimately on a voluntary basis. And if it's all on a voluntary basis, it can work, not let me write it in and here bruised. The mayor's incompatibilities. I think that practice in Slovenia has shown some symptomatic conclusion. We don't have a mayor here, no, I don't think so. Because probably the practice has shown that the mayor of the municipality and the MP are too demanding. This could be said that the city’s congregations are also disadvantaged. However, it is not because public consumption in urban municipalities is higher than in small municipalities. But we do have a mayor of smaller municipalities. Around the world, we have the practice that mayors are very important cities, I remember in France, even ministers, Members and so on. But we can also have different practices, but these are different solutions. And you can always debate them. We also have a solution when MEPs and ministers are in some countries at the same time. I think that, however, it shows that practice is being followed and that practice has given certain conclusions. Then one flower, salvation. The mayor's name is in the '90s. I don't even understand if it's a slip-through deadline, so it's not possible, because it should be written, or whether it's also an instructional deadline, so it's possible later. But why in the 90s? After all, it can be taken into account in 91 days or in one year. Practice can show that the need arises only after one year. You know, these are some of the changes that we write by changing something so we can explain to the media what we've done with the papers. And the citizens have nothing to do with it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I have to finish, so I'd like to propose. Changes can be made in a reduced procedure. Changes, those that are necessary and necessary. But if we go forward with this process, and I suppose it doesn't have to be wise to conclude that in the second reading, a few hundred amendments will fall, that we will spend a lot of time on committees and the National Assembly to accept this, that this will be one big pump. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This will result in the municipalities continuing to amend some internal regulations, the Ministry writing instructions and bureaucracy being botched, the state being irritated, and no benefits. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite you to the conclusion of the Minister, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for this comprehensive, in-depth and qualitative debate. Also a considerable amount of time, which has confidently achieved its goal. If I allow myself to make an assessment, I think it has confirmed that it is at this very time that we are adopting the law and not the amendment of the law, and not the ninth placement on the patches that have now appeared at the time of the amendments to this law. I think that the debate has opened up so many questions that it has certainly confirmed the primacy of the decision that we have a new system law after ten years of experience with the new system of local self-government. This is what we have also drawn to, the experience, the bad and the good, and, of course, the European experience and, above all, the European practice and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Many of the news that some of you have rightly wondered about has its origin in this document, in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. It is certain that things that have been discussed in specific areas of the talk today can be arranged in such a way or in a different way. Various decisions, including the various professional options, are to implement the European Charter on Local Self-Government The issue of our ability to consensus is what solutions we will incorporate into this law. I don't think it's a bad time, but it wasn't meant to be. We've been preparing this law for two years. There have been numerous discussions between mayors and associations of municipalities. Most of the news comes from the mayors, these fresh ideas of some of the questions because they themselves feel the irregularity of the regulation at that time. This time will be as predominant and this debate will be as political as we want it to be. I am convinced that we still have so much courage and plans ahead of us that we still adopt such an important system law during this term of office. I could not attach to the final debater, Comrade Tarchoon, even though he was very transparent and nevertheless reasoned, but here is no fashion at all. This is about the implementation of this government's programme, and I must tell you on this occasion that the Ministry of the Interior does not have on the list of 40 and some European laws no law, because all European laws have already been submitted to the National Assembly and have been adopted. This does not mean that we will now stop our activities and get stuck where we are. We continue with the programme and two-year work on the project: a new system law in the field of local self-government has produced this fruit. We believe that the law is well established to have support in European and Slovenian practice and experience. Of course, these issues, which have been discussed today, need to be studied further and with great confidence I can tell you that this debate today has been very useful, because it has also given us a direction to think about how to address a particular issue. We have been in a number of dilemmas, including the questions you have been talking about how to set things up, especially in very contradictory positions between mayors and also among experts, how to sort things out. What you have announced today has, of course, led us to build up the law in further consideration. For example, the hottest question or one of them is the status of local communities. We are of the opinion that legal personality is not a condition for efficiency, for the democratic functioning of local communities. Not even for a moment have we thought about and put the smallest grounds in place to deprive the local communities of their democratic subjectivity and citizens of the possibility of participation in power at this level of democracy, but it is simply a matter of realizing that the legal subjectivity itself does not bring anything and does not refer to such a concept of the local community in this sense, but it does mean that the abuses that have occurred and also the rights and mayors have been alerted to them when someone representing the local community can commit themselves to the legal affairs of the community and the community with its responsibility to guarantee the obligations assumed by the local community. That's why we went into this. As far as the mayor is concerned as a voter, we will not insist on this arrangement. This was an attempt, in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, to bring the mayor and the municipal council together in a joint responsibility for decisions. This is not about any division into legislative and executive power. This is a local government governed by different laws. I apologize because I have run out of time to comment on each of the issues that you have mentioned here, I would only say that we will safely take them into account in the adoption of the law, that we will incorporate the directions that have been shown here today and that, in my view, we will all succeed in the following coordinations in Slovenia in adopting a good system law to regulate the status of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the 21:35 vote. I'm breaking this agenda. I thank the Minister and the representative of the Government or the Ministry of the Interior very much for their cooperation. At 5:10 a.m., we will move on to the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. I very much welcome the Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Labour between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u103	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 10. At the top of the agenda, this is the first defence proposal for the Employment Rehabilitation Act for persons with disabilities. I welcome the Minister and his co-workers. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members, with first-signed colleague Janez Drobnič, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I will now ask the Minister to take note of the draft law and then the representatives of the parliamentary groups will be given the floor to present their views. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u104	Dear Mr. President! The government has drafted a new law on the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. The new law was being prepared to mention, almost over 10 years ago, since the law in force extended to 1976, so the law was written for a different social arrangement, a different economic situation written during the full-time employment period, if I may say so. However, terminology has also been changed and, above all, new approaches in the field of employment, rehabilitation and understanding of disability. The necessity of adopting a new law also requires a new regulation of working relationships, a new system in the field of disability insurance under the law on pension and disability insurance and safety and health at work. In the last 10 years, the employment sector of persons with disabilities has been governed mainly by an active employment policy programme and by the establishment of disabled companies. However, there were no other solutions, so all too many people with disabilities have also seen problems in their application to the employment and social security agency, including through the pension disability insurance institution. These findings, even more than those of unemployed persons in the institution, are confirmed mainly by the structure of unemployed persons, which shows that 76% of the disabled are long-term unemployed, among them 86% of the disabled, 60% of the unemployed, according to age structure and relatively high insurance benefits, and 55% with only the first level of education. These are facts that show that the problem cannot be solved only through the APZ programmes or active employment policies, but that the disabled need something more. Therefore, the law introduces a comprehensive system whereby, for the first time, we increase the employability of persons with disabilities by means of employment rehabilitation, secondly, we increase the possibility of suitable employment for persons with disabilities in suitable jobs, with the possibility of adapting working time, with the possibility of providing other appropriate work, also with another employer, with employment in protective employment, with support and with disabled companies, we promote employment for shorter working hours, at home, work at a distance, work with information, communication and other support technology of equipped jobs, and, thirdly, we provide greater protection in employment for persons with disabilities. We also introduce ways to encourage, not just forcing employers to increase the employment of disabled people by introducing a quota system and various financial incentives for employers and disabled workers. We have followed good practice in the European Union, as well as in us, in the drafting of the law. We have taken into account the international recommendations and Directive 2000/78 on the introduction of a general policy for equal treatment and employment, and have taken into account the fact that integration and social partnership are the only way to address the issues of employment of persons with disabilities in an integrated way. Therefore, we have coordinated the law very wide and for almost 8 months before the government hearing with the Economic and Social Council, so that the social partners initialled on 19.11.2003 a declaration of consistency between the texts of the articles of the law. Secondly, to the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Persons with Disabilities, which addressed the proposal for a law at a larger number of meetings, and for the third time with professional institutions and disability organisations. The purpose of the law is not only to hire a disabled person and thereby to reduce unemployment, but to employ a disabled person in appropriate jobs. Let me conclude: the law provides the basis for creating equivalent employment opportunities for people with disabilities and introduces an integration model in the employment of persons with disabilities instead of the now dominant so-called compensation model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now he's got the word of a colleague Janez Petty Officer. He will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by counterpart Črnugelj. First, my fellow Master Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Well-welcome representatives of the government and, of course, colleagues and fellow Members of the National Assembly! The Employment Rehabilitation Act of the Employment of Persons with Disabilities is coming to the National Assembly too late. This is a key finding not only for a few years, but for a decade, for sure. This is one of the oldest laws, or law, that is now in force and that touches on this issue, dating back to 1976, so it will be almost 30 years old. And why did this old marriage last so long? Because some key players in this area wanted nothing to change. In order to achieve the objectives that the emerging elite of the continuitys corresponded to, to clean up the ownership of the disabled company and make it harder for the disabled to obtain the necessary profits, and to leave the disabled in distress, retirement or to send them to the employment agency at the burden of the State. And this is one part of the transition that you designed and performed. You're wondering if that's based on facts. I'll tell you some facts. The registered unemployed were 102.593 in 1992; at the same time we had 4,126 registered unemployed in Slovenia. If we look at the statistics for last year, we find that the unemployment rate is exactly the same or maybe a thousand or two thousand more, that is 103 or 104 thousand, no one knows how many there are, because unemployment records are not accurate. There are now more than 20,000 unemployed people with disabilities. Of course, there are significantly fewer in the records because they are stored in a special record, during which they have been deleted. But five times more is the increase in the unemployment of disabled people - that is, registered people. The employment opportunities of people with disabilities are therefore poor and unsuspecting. The disabled in the current economy and in the economy, as we called it, were about 45 to 50 thousand. What can we figure out now? I don't know if the analysis is doing anything now. To determine from the statistical data or comparison of these contingents that the employees are approximately entitled to less. Of this, the number of employees in disabled companies has increased significantly, under special conditions, i.e. in aggregated form, where the number of employees has increased by seven times. So the employment cut in half. A few more than a thousand people out of 20,000 unemployed are involved in professional rehabilitation each year. This means that only one 20 is allowed to enter this particular programme. What's going on with the others? Whether the members of the government or the office are asking questions and we Members - nothing. Therefore, all of these do not have access to or are not included in active employment policy programmes, especially those of the 12,000 or 13,000 or 13,000 in specific records, where they are not actually called to be invited and under equivalent conditions to participate in the active employment policy programme. There is no explanation for these measures. What about working disabled people - because this category is the most numerous, I think it gives about 70.80% of these people in the entire population of people with disabilities. About 5% are involved in professional rehabilitation, which means every 20 years. The principle of professional rehabilitation is that everyone should be given access to appropriate programmes in order to ensure employment, ensuring the same possibility. If we come from a social agreement or equal opportunities, then we must do so. This means every year 200 to 300 persons, out of a few thousand who are defined in the disability assessment procedures of the commissions in the pension and disability insurance institution. How, then, can disabled people become interested in employers? They can't. Well, this marriage, as you suggested, is certainly welcome. About 1000 registered unemployed persons are employed each year. If we set ourselves the goal of bringing all the unemployed currently registered at the employment agency on 25 February 26 February to work, it would take 20 years to include everyone in employment, with the same instruments, at the same pace, but on condition that no one would apply again in these 20 years. These are real facts. About eight years or seven years ago, a programme of training for disabled persons was adopted by 2002, I think it was called an ambitious programme with all the instruments, but of what little has been achieved, there is only a letter on paper, mostly some minor things, but it doesn't matter, because trends show what has happened and what is happening. The law has to be adopted. I hope that you will listen to the proposals or accept the proposals that we have drawn up in New Slovenia. We have written an integral law on the promotion and employment of persons with disabilities, or on the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities, and you have really incorporated most of the solutions into this text that we are currently addressing, you have changed the sequence a little bit, you have significantly poored the explanation, in particular the international comparison, and you have changed something, but you have not been successful. Interesting is the area or chapter on concessions, so you have decided on a two-tier model, i.e. that there are concessions for regular intervention for work and employment, vocational training and, on the other hand, the area of vocational rehabilitation. I don't think it would be necessary to divide it myself, maybe you'll convince me not yet. However, it is necessary to touch on some of the solutions that you indicate in marriage that I think are questionable. Let's look at the concept of employment rehabilitation first. I believe this term was used in expert texts and you introduced it. Maybe even I've introduced him, but not in the sense of professional rehabilitation, that's more important. Here you use it as a job rehabilitation. I believe that, in the light of the comparison with the other countries, we would maintain professional rehabilitation. I think it would be more appropriate, even in the context of taking account of this law on professional qualifications or classifications of professions. And the standardization of the professions "Rehabilitation, Berufliche Rehabilitation" is used by foreigners or in this circle. Second, the definition of disability. This definition may create a problem in defining persons who go under the quota system. You now refer to the status of disability under existing laws and add a general definition. We believe that the laws under which certain statuses have been granted should also be taken into account and that this status, which is granted under this law, should also be mentioned. The next is the town of the Institute for Rehabilitation, we believe that it is more the right term to "coordinate professional development" because there are other institutions in this area that will also work for development. Professionals and colleagues - also technical professions would be good to take into account here and include them. Suitable jobs for persons with disabilities - Article 36. These are films that experts on the road to professional rehabilitation have always been interested in. Identify typical places that are suitable for disabled people. We'll never be able to do that. It just doesn't work. Someone who is on a wheelchair, for example, has all the intellectual skills, is certainly appropriate, if he also has competence, for a director, for a financial accountant, for a cashier, and I don't know what else [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's a very fast time. [[...]] In short, that's not gonna work. What is this employment center? The employment center, it would be good if it were the basis in the law on institutions. If you are going to be with an economic society, then it is necessary to determine whether or not to grant a subsidy, as this would be contrary to the European Union's fundamental proposals. Compulsory employment of an expert - overloaded. I agree that they should be employed, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to the employer. [[...]] Increases in the employment of people with disabilities - five more seconds to complete the thought [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u107	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u108	Employment of disabled persons and disabled companies. If you have an established quota system that will ensure employment under general conditions, then you do not need restrictions on employment in disabled companies and do not limit it. Some other solutions, but maybe next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Colleague Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary and co-workers, well-respected colleagues and colleagues! As we know last year has been the European Year of Disabled Persons and we have had an appropriate opportunity to draw the attention of the public to the policy towards disabled people, to somehow make an inventory of past actions, actions and actions, not least to the adoption of legislation and to the analytical assessment of what needs to be done and done in the future. Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, which introduced a new definition of non-discrimination, was the basis for further segregation and steps towards the full integration of persons with disabilities in all directions of life. We must not forget the Madrid Declaration, etc. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we can see that there have been significant movements in the field of disability in excess of the mentality of the disabled, disability, as something and someone in need of mercy and absolute assistance and care. Today we are thinking and talking and acting so normally that it is clear to us that the integration of people with disabilities into everyday life is also every day. They are an entity and an object, active in operation, co-create, plan their lives and jobs, and society normally accepts and becomes increasingly aware that disabled persons are part of a society with the same rights, obligations and feelings. It is clear, however, that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are aware that responsibility for the preparation of effective programmes, the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society on the side of the country, which must offer clear and effective framework programmes together with government services, enabling instruments for working in this area. Our task in this area has been quite well done by the parliamentarians. Last year we passed a law on the use of Slovenian Sign Language, which recognizes to deaf people that they use Slovenian Sign Language and the right to interpretation for sign language. With this, we have removed the fundamental communication barrier between the hearers and the unheard. We passed the Disability Organisation Act, which legislates 18 the standard rule on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons and their integration. Today we are considering the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, the first consideration. Why is this marriage so important? I'm sure because last year there were 11.5% of people with disabilities among registered unemployed or 11 000 197. This law defines the definition of a disabled person, defines the status of a disabled person by means of employment rehabilitation as an individualised right of a disabled person, as a set of services that increase the employability of a disabled person. The law defines and defines professionals and co-workers and categorizes them in three groups, defines the type, extent and duration of the rehabilitation service, defines what the rehabilitation plan is, defines what it should contain, assesses employment and how it can be defined by how and how the employment decision is issued, defines what the social inclusion programme is, identifies what all these cases are and what are suitable jobs for the disabled, provides for protection of employment, employment centre, support employment and so on. Finally, it also defines concessions in this area. It is particularly important for us to introduce a quota employment system. The question is whether the right parameters are chosen or whether the limitations are sufficiently carefully collected. Disability enterprises are defined as a form of social economy. But we wonder if the other parameters are clearly defined enough. It sets out the definition of incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities, subsidies for the salaries of persons with disabilities and funds for the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, defined as public financial funds. We see the fundamental disadvantage of this law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats in leaving the regulation of individual legal structures to sub-legislative acts. This is the lack of most of the laws that we are adopting here in Parliament. Perhaps it would suggest adopting a universal legal provision that the law should not be left to the next stage of consideration before any sub-legislative acts, regulations, rules, standards and regulations, methodologies, tariffs and prices, recommended forms and so on are submitted by the Government, offices or agencies. It is a sad fact that such a good law as this is precisely because of the under-laws that are usually prepared late, lose power or prevent the immediate application of very well-defined legal solutions. In the Group of Members, we ask whether certain status-economic solutions have also been tested, because we believe that a number of simulations of the future situation must be carried out, since in this way the law can only be obtained in terms of strength and quality. This certainly includes the provision of Article 52 of the Law when a disabled company is required to employ one professional worker if it trains or employs more than 3 persons with disabilities, or on every 20 persons with disabilities of one professional. The questionable question is also the need for the revision of the annual and business reports introduced by Article 58, and we believe that small businesses do not need an annual audit, as they represent a considerable cost for a disabled company. A little warning was given by the Department of Disability Organizations. They shall apply in particular to Article 107 of that part when it repeals certain articles of the Company Act. In the United Nations Group, we are aware of the cruel fact that not only words written enough in life, rights, guidelines and laws adopted - the most important thing we can actually apply in practice. In doing so, it is so important that it represents the general conditions and rights of persons with disabilities and identifies the ways and possibilities of their lives and is training to overcome everyday, sometimes for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Mr Pohorec will now present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you, President. Mr Minister and co-workers of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. According to the World Health Organization, about 10% of the world’s people are disabled, representing about 610 million people. This is an extremely large number, and it also poses a great challenge for mankind to resolve these difficult and current issues. Of course, the vast majority of these are unemployed. Similarly, in Slovenia, where there were 11.5% of people with disabilities or more than 11,000 people among 97,000 unemployed persons in 2003, these are those who are registered at the employment agency and are registered, there are no data on unregistered persons. In addition to being disabled and unemployed, their problem is also a lack of education, as data tells us that 55% of the unemployed who have only a first degree of education are disabled. That's worrying. This social group, of course, does not know and cannot help itself. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we welcome the proposal for a law to regulate the employment and employment of persons with disabilities, which is intended to improve the relationship in this area. It is, of course, necessary to mention that, on the basis of the constitutional Article on equality and the social state, laws such as the one we are dealing with need to be adopted and thus strengthen the State's role and responsibility in this area. We are confident that, while the costs of the country will be higher for a short period of time, such behaviour and investment will be higher, this doctrine will be paid for by higher employment, while at the same time promoting the creation of added value by the disabled, which will also have a favourable impact on productivity in the medium term. We must not forget in the constitutional categories that Article 49 of the Constitution also speaks of the right to freedom of work and Article 52 of the Constitution speak particularly of the first paragraph of the Constitution on the provision of freedom of work and the provision of protection and training for work. This law will also legally cover rights under these articles of the Constitution. At this point, we would also like to stress that we must adopt this law not only to meet constitutional and international criteria but because of ourselves, our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens, our neighbours, our acquaintances, our relatives and others, and to allow them gradually to join society. Let us be aware that the disabled themselves do not demand mercy, not mercy, but demand an equal opportunity for inclusion in life as this is possible for all of us non-disabled persons. It is, of course, necessary to stress that a disabled person does not receive his birth or disability status, such as an accident, but is subject to laws that govern this area. I won't go into the content of the law. We believe that it is well prepared to provide a suitable basis for further consideration, so our Group of Members will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. My colleague Tsukaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, followed by a colleague of Levič, whom I do not see yet in the Chamber, and I invite him to come. First of all, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you, for your word. I would like to start by saying that this is the law that we have long been expecting, which we are looking forward to supporting by the Slovenian Democrats, which is a suitable basis for further consideration, but we would like to draw attention to some of the things that should be added to them. First of all, it is good to be aware of the importance of this law. In fact, if we have many disabled people in Slovenia, it is necessary to separate those who are not employed, those who, for example, are retired, who are aged. However, we have many disabled people, over 40,000, who are in one way or another employed, so those who could work or work under certain circumstances. Of those 40,000 are over 11,000 unemployed and they could be, that's 28%. Otherwise, there are 10.11% unemployment, there are different numbers; there are 28% of people with disabilities, and this number has increased mainly in recent years. So, with the emergence of a free market economy, which, of course, requires a different approach and regulation on this side, and after 10 years we get it through this law. The first thing about marriage, of course, is how will marriage work? In my experience, I usually have such an approach that I take some cases of disabled people and go to school, imagine how this will work for this particular Joseph, John, Peter, and so on. Let me just give you one example, very typical, very common. It's a young boy, relatively young, about 30 years old -- so I'll say that no one will know him and expose him -- handsome, uneducated; when he's full of moon, he won't work, but at the first and last end, he's as good as an hour. He's willing to do all the work, the simple work, but when his time comes, he's not at work, or he's working an hour, he throws a broom, and he goes. Otherwise, the workshop cleans up, reliable what it does, does very well - it has its flies. As a doctor, I was lucky that this common patient had a very good employer, a very good one, who understood all these things. Even if he went, he went, if he wasn't there, he was gone. But the problem was that those days had to be covered somehow with the hospital. That's what we've been doing. And all the time, when he had a very understanding employer and an environment and associates who used to make a little joke of him, or they loved him because he wasn't a conflict person, everything was beautiful. But the time has come when the employer said, I can't give him any reliable work, I never know if he'll work eight hours, six hours, two hours - short little, I can't have him anymore. And there wasn't this guy back then for 12 days, and there was no ambulance or work anywhere. Well, he finally fired him, of course. We cannot ask the employer to go indefinitely with his tolerance. When he stopped working, he collapsed completely in one month. Completely failed, 30-year-old and was hospitalized - six months hospitalized. When he came back, of course he didn't get the job, he didn't get it, and he wandered again for about a month and was hospitalized again for six months. And so on. Hospitalization, you know how much it costs. I have calculated that if only 10% of that State's funding were spent in some way, for some cooperation with the employer with some kind of support, a person would remain in some way of life, socially acceptable, as normal and uninhabited as possible. You'd have your days, and the thing would have been solved for him and for society. And then I wonder if this law offers me any solution for such a case that it will not completely decompensate and actually go completely into the burden of hospitalisation, at the burden of the state, but will somehow preserve itself in life and also remain in society. Of course, such an approach, how to solve such a case, requires great legal flexibility and is an important quality, or should be an important quality of the law, since every disability is different. Every disabled person is something special. Not that they're going to sort of spread them into groups, into molds, and there's got to be a lot of breadth in the marriage. And she did, quite a bit. However, in this case, I was looking for a solution, a disabled company is out of the question, there is a requirement for regular work: four hours a day or eight hours a day, half-time or full-time employment - this is out of the question. The protection of employment, i.e. the job where the job is adapted to the disabled, is out of the question. He's biologically healthy. [[Hands, eyes, motorbike]] Everything works perfectly - it doesn't need it. A suitable job for a disabled person is therefore easier and less demanding physical work - perhaps. But he was also able to move mountains, he was strong. It's out of the question. Support employment, where in the normal working environment with professional and technical support, disabled persons are assisted. He doesn't need any support in those days. And when his moon comes, it's over. Ten experts can't save him and keep him on the job. The only place to find it is a social inclusion programme. This is said to be a program for maintaining the disabled’s working ability, because it is about maintaining his or her working ability, not just his or her working ability, but mainly his or her working habits or any involvement in the work. However, this social inclusion programme has already been somehow reduced, in Article 34, saying: "Social inclusion programmes are social programmes aimed at supporting and maintaining disabled persons with disabilities' working skills." And from the context and from the explanation it is understood that it is a matter of more specialised institutions, institutions - perhaps a centre for social work, I don't know, it does not take into account again. For it would be possible for a craftsman to do this, a farmer, a man who knows a man, to make good contact with him. And of course, I was disappointed because I did not find a suitable solution to this case and such cases in this law. It is therefore likely that the social inclusion programme will have to be complemented by not only maintaining working skills, but also working habits, and that these programmes can be entrusted without great guile and professional intervention or some institutional treatment to a craftsman, including a farmer and so on. Of course, some of the programmes below are intended to be relatively flexible. A suitable job for a disabled person can also be found at home or a protected job and so on, but other programs still show a lack of flexibility to whom to assign it. There are many cases where jobs are located in the vicinity of a disabled person, in the immediate neighborhood, or in relatives, where there is a willingness to help a person with his human salary. However, this mechanism needs to be greatly simplified here, for our goal is that this man will somehow be provided. And this will have to be complemented by this law. The next question comes to me with regard to the budgetary, financial consequences of the law. It is said that 1.8 billion tolars are projected in 2004. This was calculated when it was thought that the law would be adopted in the previous year, that is to say, for the whole year. These are not large funds, gentlemen, which is what these 40,000 disabled people, capable of one way or another to work, means that 44,000 tolls per year per disabled person should be contributed by the state to its inclusion in the work and preservation. If we're counting on half of these people with disabilities who don't need a national incentive, then there's, say, about 100,000 tolars per year or 8 thousand per month per person with disabilities. I doubt this will be enough to motivate and preserve these things. The case that I said would be very much resolved, very much resolved if the state paid compulsory insurance, and the employer would pay this patient or this disabled person for an hour with some more flexible working legislation. Because this cripple was when he got a month's salary, he was gone for a week, and then when the money was gone, he came in and worked hard. And if I gave him every day or every week the wages, the hours you'd work, you'd come, you'd be alive, you'd be among the people, you'd be effective. This is also said to require flexibility on this side, and the law should leave open the door to some innovative capture of this problem. The quota system set up here is, of course, very good in the example of foreign countries. However, I must say that it is not understandable how the quota size will adapt to the employer. I mean, it's 1-6%. That is to say, if the employer has at least 20 employees, he will pay, if he does not have any disabled person, he will pay at least one per cent or 6 per cent of the total number of employees, at 70% of the minimum wage for each disabled person who should have an employee. So if the number two percent were valid, then 20 employees or so: if there were a five percent quota, 20 employees should have one disabled person. If I didn't have an employee, I'd be paying 70% of the minimum wage I'd give to a disabled person. The system is well placed, but there are two errors or two shortcomings. One, let me say again on a case from many years ago, like I did in Litostrom. There was an analysis of the specific job, which was said to be cleaners. These are the ones that cleaned the castings of the lithostrotic turbine and similar things after the X-rays, when they discovered, say, the cracks in the cast iron with the flexaries, they drilled, like, dental seals and so on. And that in some lobby, the hall used to make 20 people. That was terrible: noise, rust, sparks were flying all over the place, smells, smoke and so on. When I was doing an analysis 20 years ago of workers in these jobs, it was found that no one had endured this job for more than 12 years. After 12 years, he became disabled in the first category. At the latest, after 12 years of work, due to the vibration disorder, the failure of the nervous system of the neck ring, the nervous system failed, the wrists failed, the vibrational disease. And there's only one thing that would stop it -- the fluctuation. You know what this means after 12 years of disability in the first category: for the company nothing, get rid of it, get a young worker, and for the country it's a terrible burden. These were 30-, 35-year-old men, who, of course, went into disability in the first category, disabled. And if it were built into the whole mechanism of some motivation that the employer would have to do something to prevent this disability, then surely the company would have made a plan, a program and it would be very easy to make a fluctuation: after one month it goes to another job and so on and it would not have come to that. Because after six months, that transient damage of the organism is being rehabilitated again. In the law on safety at the work of this protection, there is no such motivation. There are some penalties, but that's not built up. And in this case, look at the quota system, first of all it is necessary to ask whether such a employer producing a series of invalids will be more burdened by a quota. While this is not in law, it is likely that the legal act or institution envisaged will take this into account. But if this is done, surely the employer will pay this quota in any case, because it will be for the activity and will pay the quota no matter how much in the following year or in the current year he will produce the disabled. And there'll be some kind of silence again. I don't like that. And it would be good to study this thing further. And there's another thing. If in some way we installed prevention of disability more than subsequent resolution, we would, of course, place all the burden on capital and less on wages. Because the quota that the employer will pay will go according to the number of employees, it will be attributed to the workload. It will be attributed to what we say that we are already the most burdened in Europe. Our wages are the most burdened in Europe. And that's the flaw we don't like. So, as I said, of course, we support the law as a suitable basis for further discussion, and we hope that there will be something else to add in this law and also to implement some amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much, colleague Tsukati. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. I'll put my word behind him to my colleague Germich. First of all, Comrade Levich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Persons with disabilities are a category of persons who certainly need more attention and protection in all aspects of social inclusion, including in employment. In the past, however, protection was often too large, often pushing people with disabilities to the brink. These have been exempted from all social settings and left to domestic supplies or their intended institutions. Therefore, it is not surprising to learn that the majority of people with disabilities are less educated, unemployed, and forcibly retired. The law that talks about their employment has been 27 years old and has not changed in all these years, which in itself says the necessity of adopting a new law, a modern one, which will allow people with disabilities an equal opportunity of employment compared to others. The work and thus the possibility of surviving yourself and your family is a constitutionally defined category which must be made possible for all citizens, whether they are disabled or not. That is why we are so much more pleased that the government has drawn up a proposal for a law that will at least ease the deprived position of persons with disabilities in the employment market if it is not possible to remedy it altogether. Unfortunately, there are a number of provisions in the bill that we are not satisfied with. We believe that this cannot be the law under which the status of a disabled person will be granted. The status of a disabled person should be ensured under a system-wide law which should specify exactly who is a disabled person, what levels and what conditions are there for obtaining this status. Thus, disability status can be acquired on the basis of different laws, acts and regulations. In the proposal for a law, even a provision which states that the Minister responsible for disability shall issue a regulation specifying the content of the criteria for the recognition of the status of disabled person in this law. This is how we adopt a law that we don't even know who it's going to be, because it's probably not even ready yet. This increases the possibility of non-compliance, as will the disabled. Even now, problems arise when persons with disabilities are granted the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically disabled persons who cannot be employed by a disabled person. To achieve this, it must first change the status of a disabled worker. However, there is no provision for a change of status since the procedures for this process are neither defined nor prescribed. While this can be carried out in practice, these procedures are long-lasting. Thus, the rights under the Social Protection Act stop mentally and physically affected persons as soon as you apply for the status of a disabled worker, but you cannot get a job until you get a change of status, which may also take years. It is essential that this law also regulate the transition from the so-called non-working to the disabled. The bill also introduces a new concept, namely quotas. The Quota Employment Scheme will mean that companies will be forced to employ disabled persons within a certain percentage of the total number of employees, but it is unclear what these quotas will be, as their level will be determined by the Government on a proposal from the Economic and Social Council by the end of this year. So we are once again adopting provisions that we do not know what they will be or whether these quotas can change if the situation of employment of persons with disabilities changes or not. Obviously, it is already customary for the government to adopt laws without clear provisions, since the definition of the under-laws is certainly easier than changes to the law. The quota system sounds good, but maybe it's not very thoughtful. I wonder if any analysis, perhaps consequences, has been done to introduce quotas into Slovenian companies? Many countries that have introduced quotas are now gradually abandoning them because they have not produced the desired effects. One such country is the United Kingdom, which is now facing anti-discrimination legislation with the unemployment of persons with disabilities. Forcing the employment of disabled persons only due to the provisions of the law is certainly not going to achieve its purpose. Companies should see the benefit and contribution of the company in the employment of persons with disabilities. Tax incentives would certainly be welcome, and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons would abolish them. We ask ourselves why companies would seek employment of disabled people if they did not have any direct benefits. Disability as workers is particularly protected and cannot be easily forgiven, which on the one hand seems to be social justice and humane and, on the other hand, disstimulates the company for their employment. So why should businesses hire disabled people if they do not benefit from this before the restrictions? So with this disabled person, we don't do any good looking for jobs, rather the other way around. For the employer, employment of disabled persons will mainly be a restriction and not an advantage. Persons with disabilities will constitute an unforgivable workforce and no disability companies will receive tax credits. On the other hand, last year we passed a law on working relationships where disabled persons as workers are not specifically mentioned. The bill also lacks incentives for self-employment of people with disabilities, which could be a contribution to start-up stress or otherwise defined. Self-employment is one of the incentive activities to reduce unemployment, and we believe that this activity should be further stimulated in the case of people with disabilities. In preparing the law, the government did not invite employers' representatives to participate, so it did not give its opinion to the Chamber of Commerce or any other association, a company which could represent the interests of employers. And there are some other things that have interfered with our reading of this bill. In preparing this proposal, the Government has taken into account the opinion of the Economic and Social Council and has not requested the opinion of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia on persons with disabilities, the purpose of which is to give opinions in the drafting of disability legislation. We're wondering why that is. In the Youth Party, we will support the proposed law, but we expect the proposer to examine our comments and include them in the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will now be presented by colleague Ljubo Germič, behind him by colleague Lavrič. First, Comrade Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u118	Dear Mr. President! Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The proposal for the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is before us today, is a law that we have long anticipated and that, together with the laws already adopted in this area, largely concludes the issue under consideration. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have carefully examined the bill and assessed that it brings a number of new solutions and comparisons with existing legislation, and in our view it will certainly help solve the problem of employment of people with disabilities. However, we expect certain corrections and additions based on today's debate. Article 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that persons with disabilities are provided with protection and training for work in accordance with the law. The employment of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Slovenia is currently governed by laws which some stem from a period prior to independence. The Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, 1976, which is a fundamental law for this area, is long overdue and has been fully preserved due to significant changes in the economic and social system. Today's picture in the field of employment of persons with disabilities shows that the unemployment rates of persons with disabilities are higher than the general unemployment rate in the country, particularly for the disabled, for the disabled over 50 years and for the disabled who have a low level of education. In addition, a more accurate view of the structure of disabled persons shows that the proportions of disabled persons in these segments are the highest. In Slovenia, there are currently more than 11,000 unemployed people with disabilities, so the proportion of people with disabilities among the unemployed is 11.5%. In international regulation, the situation of persons with disabilities is governed by a number of United Nations acts, in particular the 1975 Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the 1993 Standard Rules for the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, which impose individual activities and procedures on countries and social partners to create equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. Following the consideration of proposals to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we followed these documents in the LDS House of Members and supported the proposal of a group of Members to amend Article 14 of the Constitution, which should also include disability in the article on equality before the law. We have always had before us the fact that this is not just about regulating the rights of persons with disabilities, but about the application of the complete civilisation principle of non-discrimination. This is also how we see the proposal for a law that is before us today, because we believe that it is absolutely necessary because the existing legislation is obsolete because the position of the disabled in the labour market is less favourable because the disabled are less involved in the labour market because their unemployment rate is higher and because the duration of their unemployment is longer than that of the non-disabled population. Finally, we are bound by European legislation, the Council of the European Union Directive 2000/78, the resolution of equal employment opportunities for people with disabilities and the European Employment Strategy, which is in the process of being adopted. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the objectives of the law are mainly to increase the employment rate and increase the employability of people with disabilities in Slovenia, to increase the social inclusion of persons with disabilities and to ensure the opportunity for equal participation of persons with disabilities in the labour market by creating adequate jobs and working conditions for persons with disabilities and the principle of their realization, adequately represented and reflected in the law their definition and means of implementation. Above all, in the LDS Club, it seems important to us that the bill highlights the movement from passive to active measures: that the bill introduces a social, functional model for dealing with disability, which is not based on disability, but on the ability of persons with disabilities to engage in work, to work and active life in society; to allow access to work, to provide equal opportunities to acquire skills for the entry market and to maintain employment, including the use of information and communication technologies and the transition to knowledge-based society; to focus active and preventive measures on appropriate employment opportunities, to raise awareness of employers and to new opportunities in the social economy. The solutions put forward by the law are generally acceptable to the LDS Club as they are aimed at eliminating the social exclusion of people with disabilities and their involvement in employment by developing their skills. Finally, the proposal for a law also provides an economic justification for rehabilitation, since it is also a positive item in the budget of a certain company that is successfully implementing it. If the cost benefit is taken into account, the annual costs included on individuals in all programmes - supported, protected and subsidised - are lower than the average transferable disability benefits. Despite a number of positive effects, we would like to draw attention to our concerns, which should be examined and, if necessary, properly incorporated into the text of the law in the second reading. The bill introduces a series of innovations in the area of rehabilitation, approaches in particular individual treatment and choice of services. However, we need more emphasis on the importance and purpose of involving individuals and individuals primarily in the regular working environment and in the sense of self-employment or the establishment of independent enterprises and crafts, since this would undoubtedly further accelerate the employment of disabled people. We also lack more emphasis in the bill on non-discrimination, both during the rehabilitation process itself and in the search for a job or employment, because we believe that reference to the general labour law is not enough to prevent this. In our opinion, the role and task of the Employment Office is not sufficiently noticeable in the law and could be more defined, for example in the search for central jobs and in communication with potential employers. We believe that only the integration of actors will produce positive results. We further believe that in the proposal for a law, employment rehabilitation may be too similar to medical rehabilitation, which in our view is not correct, since medical rehabilitation can only be part of the first or is not necessary to be introduced to an individual. It is also not clear from this point of view that the medical profession is so strongly represented throughout the rehabilitation process and also in the composition of the commissions. Given that sub-legislative acts are fundamental to the implementation of the law in the LDS, we believe that they would be well-known in the adoption phase of the law at least in the grave draft, but that it is a one-year deadline for their preparation. Experience with other laws has shown that too long a deadline for the preparation of submarital acts is not justified and sometimes even has an unproductive effect. The proposal for a law introducing quotas also brings bonuses and minorities to businesses, both in the private and public sectors. Since we would like the measure to have positive effects on the increase in the employment of persons with disabilities, it would also be good to have a more accurate assessment of the impact of the measure on the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, which is reflected in the range of quotas in a specific common European market and, of course, an accurate assessment of the level of resources to be collected in line with the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities and on this basis an assessment of the financial implications of the proposal, as an adequate level of funding will be one of the key elements for achieving the objectives set. At the conclusion of this, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, allow me to remind you that today there are some 600 million disabled people in the world. Each of us can become disabled at any time. The fact is that disabled people are both children, women and men worldwide deprived of basic human rights. They are often excluded from social life and discriminated against. Therefore, for people with disabilities in Slovenia, the bill that we are considering today is a positive step towards improving the situation, new opportunities for social inclusion and full life, so we will also support it in the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I warmly welcome the Minister with his team and all of you present. In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the introduction of a proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities into the procedure for the adoption of the National Assembly. After we have already adopted a number of necessary disability protection laws in this mandate to the National Assembly, we have also expected to make an almost imminent submission in some way within the mandate of the debt law, which is the proposal of this law, which we are considering today in terms of the appropriateness of the proposal for further consideration. And we're happy with that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess the proposed Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act as a good and also as a complete approach to achieving the basic objective, which is, first of all, to maintain the employment of as many persons with disabilities as possible, to increase the employability of persons with disabilities and thus their social inclusion in society as possible; to create the most equivalent opportunities for persons with disabilities to participate in the labour market; and, most importantly, to redistribute resources to achieve these objectives from a considerable number of passive forms to more active forms and measures in the field of employment. It is clear to us, however, that in today's economic and economic situation, better said logic, the situation in the labour market is very uncompromising and the employment of individual structures of still healthy job seekers is almost very difficult, sometimes extremely difficult for a particular type of search engine, let alone the employment of job seekers who are disabled. Therefore, in our view, a relatively large selection of incentive measures is a good approach for employers who employ disabled people. We are even of the opinion that the final result or financial burden of the country in this area would further increase these measures. The continued employment of persons with disabilities depends to a large extent on the quality of the implementation of employment rehabilitation, which is defined as a public service in the draft law. In this context, we believe that, in the context of granting concessions for the provision of employment rehabilitation services, it is very important how a substantive public tender for the award of a concession will be prepared by the Ministry responsible for disability protection, in particular in the sense of the required standards of service and later also to verify the effectiveness of the implementation of individual rehabilitation plans, as well as the verification of the results of employment on the basis of employment rehabilitation. The quota system for hiring disabled people does not seem to us to be the happiest solution. However, given the actual situation in the labour market, it is a measure that would be difficult to find an alternative to it. However, the creation of a fund to encourage the employment of people with disabilities is, in our view, a good solution, as well as a choice or definition of resources that will somehow be a permanent source of the Fund, are happily identified. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we want the objectives and objectives pursued by the bill as a whole to be achieved in practice as far as possible. This will depend heavily on how effective it will be to exercise control over the whole range of implementations established and defined by law. However, we do not pretend according to the reality that is present in the labour market that all disabled persons who will pass this kind of employment will be affected. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Under new circumstances, they can also actually employ. However, we are confident that, on the basis of the implementation of this law, the situation will certainly improve when all sub-laws are adopted and prepared. We will support the bill as a good preparation for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Ms Sonja Areh now has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, colleagues. From the employment point of view, the disability population applies to a category where the unemployment rate is higher than the general unemployment rate. In June 2003, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published data on the activity of the population of Slovenia for the month of April 2003. There were 778,283 inhabitants. According to the Slovenian Employment Institute, the registered unemployment rate in April 2003 was 11.1%. The percentage of people with disabilities among the unemployed was 11.5%. At the end of 2002, we had 28,967 unemployed people with disabilities. Of these, there are 6202 disabled persons in the normal working environment 22.765 in disabled companies. This means that including the unemployed on the labour market, 40.154 persons with disabilities are disabled. The structure of unemployed persons with disabilities is also worrying, resulting in their employment opportunities according to the level of education when 55% of persons with disabilities have the first level of education and more than 10 levels, and 36% of persons with disabilities are between 40 and 50 years of age. 38% even older than 50. 76% of all persons with disabilities are registered for more than 24 months at the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is expected to implement the Council Directive in the EU by means of a new law and a resolution on equal employment opportunities for people with disabilities. Both underline the importance of inclusion for vulnerable groups in the labour market. Discrimination based on disability, both indirect and direct, is prohibited. It follows from the factual situation presented that the situation of disabled persons in the labour market is extremely unfavourable that the latter is not included in the labour market in a larger number. Their unemployment rate is much higher. The duration of their unemployment is also much longer than for the rest of the population. Given that the situation since the adoption of the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has changed completely since 1976, particularly when we are talking about changing the social system, the proposed amendment is more than welcome. Following the provision of social partners, the competent ministry should take into account most of the comments, both by disabled companies and by disabled organisations, but would like to draw attention, on the basis of a letter adopted by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, to certain areas not covered or adequately regulated by the said novelties. In the SNS Group of Members, we agree that too many individual legal elements are left to the law, which, in view of the experience in practice so far, is prepared late in most cases, hindering the immediate use of legal solutions. The most important comment we have received is a warning without the simulations of the future state defined by this law. For this reason, we are also supporting the prudent verification of individual status economic solutions in order to ensure that matter is also successfully experienced in practice. For the Slovenian National Party Group, it is absolutely unchanged that, in the present extremely favourable systemic law, the financial sector abolishes certain extremely important economic reliefs, such as the tax liability on the income of legal persons to which disability companies are exempt under the current legislation. In our opinion, the adoption of sectoral legal material is necessary and welcome, as on the one hand it is for the employment and rehabilitation of a weaker group for citizens and, on the other hand, for the stimulation and consequently a better future for the entire family. In the course of the parliamentary procedure, however, we expect to take all the comments together into account and to adopt a good law that, most importantly, will be able to survive in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much, colleague Sonja Areh. Ms Pozsonc's colleague now has the floor before the general debate of all Members and Members begins. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The position of persons with disabilities in the labour market is less favourable, persons with disabilities are less involved in the labour market, their unemployment rate is higher and their unemployment is longer than that of the non-disabled population. That is why marriage is needed, well prepared, and worthy of support. The objectives envisaged are correct, fair and human. From the increase in the employment rate of people with disabilities in Slovenia to the reallocation of resources from passive to active employment measures. To achieve these objectives, the law is based on principles that are clear and effective. Every day, we witness that a company that originated with the employment of disabled people goes bankrupt or that employees of disabled persons are badly played. This law should prevent such cases and should have sufficient safeguards for the safe jobs of persons with disabilities and for the preservation of their human rights and their social security. It is only necessary to prevent the exploitation of legal options in this area when investors receive subsidies for the employment of persons with disabilities for an indefinite period of time, and when this money kicks up, the company will resort to bankruptcy. However, we still have a lot to do to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities. Secondly, not to mention the appropriate infrastructure of all buildings where disabled people would work, they would solve their small tasks or tasks from everyday life, including cultural participation, so that their lives would also be full, kind and human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We will now turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. Of course, those who still have a chance to debate in the context of time. That's how I give my first word to my colleague Jerzi Mrzel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear people! For a long time, I have argued that society is as valuable, developed, rich and wise as it can take care of those people who really need it. I am therefore very pleased that we are considering the proposal for a law on the employment, rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Taking care of the situation of persons with disabilities, in particular their employment opportunities, must be an integral part of our common conscience and continuous commitment to the social state. This is a civil standard that reveals and shows our moral image and responsibility. I therefore agree with the reasons for the adoption of the new law and also with the objectives and principles of the law. Given the high unemployment rate and the strong forecast that it is likely to increase despite the programmes and measures of active employment policy, it is also essential to legally define the possibilities for the rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Life's reality is mostly harsh in this area and in the case of all unemployed people, and thus severe employment competitions are even less likely to employ people with disabilities, and their unemployment rate is even higher than that of other groups. It is therefore also necessary to regulate and create conditions and incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities. In this regard, it is important, as the drafter also states, that this is not a passive protective attitude towards persons with disabilities, but an approach that will allow and stimulate their equal participation in employment and will also direct funds for these purposes to active measures. As far as I am concerned, disability organisations believe that the proposal for a law is encouraging and that it has also followed the European guidelines on state disability policy in the European Union. Let us also hope that we will follow it as quickly as possible by means of sub-legal acts and with all other procedures that will enable the functioning of the law. However, it will be necessary for the second reading - at least I would like to think so - whether the individual incentives for employing persons with disabilities are fully sufficient and whether the need for individual solutions to be complemented by amendments, including in the light of some specific comments and suggestions from disabled organisations. I am fully convinced that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration and I will be happy to support such a decision. The bill deserves it. Finally, let me say that recently there was an extraordinary exhibition on Stritarov 7 in the city house of invalid Stojan Zajfeld. We must all be aware of how immeasurable the spare forces of a man are when a person is in distress, such as the disabled, and should therefore be allowed to do so. It's not about helping people out of mercy, as they sometimes think. These people, if we help them, make themselves happy, make society rich and enrich themselves and society. A while ago, I had the chance to be in Blackwood twice. I have to say that I was both extremely happy as a person, and I have even thought about the need for such people who care so deeply about these people to think about the rewards for special companies or for special people who really deal in a special way with these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you. Mario Gasparini has a word to discuss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I think our representatives of the parliamentary groups have already said a lot about this law, and I think everyone has supported it, and this is a good journey for this law. I just want to point out a few things. As far as the quota system is concerned, I think it will be okay, but here we have to ask whether there will be any impact on the economic system in our country, particularly when it comes to entering Europe, whether these organisations will be affected by this contribution that they will have to pay or employment. Second thing. It seems important to me that we should also draw attention to the role of the employment institution, as it could be more visible and defined mainly in the job search phase. This is a role that this institution would have in terms of communicating with potential employers. I think there's something more the institution could do. As for disabled companies, I would like to point out three things. First, on paragraph 52. Here they also warn disabled organisations to include a professional worker in such a small number of persons with disabilities is a little excessive and it is likely that a little consideration will have to be given and paragraph 52 will have to be discussed. Today, this has also been said, in Article 58, we have the issue of financial statements. Disability companies warn that every year a small company shows this balance sheet is a little excessive. I don't want this thing to get even more complicated administratively. It'll probably have to be debated. The third thing you're going to think is a little weird, but I'm going to go back to Dr. Cuckold and this case of his, and that at the moment he became a patient. That is to say, he was fired from the company because the employer could no longer hold him and immediately became ill. He got sick and was hospitalized, if I'm not mistaken, so Dr. Cukjat said, he was hospitalized, but I'm sure he wasn't because of his underlying illness, but because he was fired. Dr. Tuckati is at the end of his speech, I think, the case is very instructive, because we have a lot of them, he first said that he did not find in this marriage who he would give this disabled person to continue processing him somehow, but he came to the end of that, so it is said that he would be reintroduced by this employer again into the same company. What am I trying to say? Look, these disabled companies also have their negative side. If we give the same category or, if you want, the same diagnosis of disease together, people who have the same problems, then we do a little bad service. We need to make sure that people with disabilities actually come into society with healthy people, I will say, or with other people with disabilities, but not just some people with disabilities who have the same disability, so to speak or have become disabled because of the same disease. In this case, we'll also do a bad favor probably. In this case, Dr. Cuckoo has shown nicely, I think it would be best for the person concerned and would become healthy, of course with his problems, which he has every month, but would not require hospitalisation. The hospital shouldn't have to intervene and spend health money and be busy. So, disabled companies, yes, of course, not doubt about it, but as little as possible. People with disabilities are supposed to, because this law is actually included in my articles, which I mentioned earlier, as well as in quotas, if you want, for people with disabilities in normal businesses. That's positive. So, as few disabled companies as possible, but as many as possible involving disabled people in normal businesses. I think it's the best and the best for the disabled. This law certainly represents a reform in the field of employment of persons with disabilities in Slovenia and is also geared towards involving persons with disabilities in this work process in a way that also highlights the ability of such a person with disabilities. Because this marriage is like this, I will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you, Comrade Gasparini. Bojan Kontic has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by correcting the statement made by my colleague, Jerce Mrzel, because there is no way she can do this on her own. She had in mind the Black Cross at Hrastovec when she mentioned home. I come from an environment where in the past, due to the specifics of the works, we have recorded always new disabled people. And it is the assets of Velenje coal miners that have made me aware of some concerns and also praises regarding the law that we are considering today. In this law, a general, umbrella definition of disability was expected, from which the remaining individual definitions for groups of different persons with disabilities would be derived, and the definition of basic rights common to all persons with disabilities as minimum rights for each person with disabilities. We also assess that the criteria for individual rights should be an integral part of the law and not of later rules. Individual comments are, of course, possible during the adoption process and can be examined and taken into account. However, special support in this law is given to the proposed solutions on protection of employment, support for disabled companies, the introduction of a quota scheme for the employment of disabled persons and incentives for the employment of disabled persons. In the process of transition, we witnessed the emergence of a crowd of unemployed, including the disabled. Any contribution to increasing the employment rate of persons with disabilities in order to increase their employability and equal participation in the labour market is welcome. I welcome the efforts made by Minister Vlad Dimovski and his colleagues to listen to the needs and interests of the unemployed. Above all, it is important that a person who does not have a recognised disability status under other regulations may obtain the status of a disabled person under this law. Employment rehabilitation will increase opportunities for equal participation in the labour market. In any case, we would be consciously blinded if we thought that this would level the situation. The disability will remain disabled, and it is also important that the right to work rehabilitation is not unique, but that the disabled person is unjustifiable when he is again in the employment institution. The law defines the process of employment rehabilitation after obtaining status. The procedure carried out on the basis of the rehabilitation plan, which is monitored by means of monthly reports, will have to be carried out consistently and will be carried out by the institution at the end, and in certain cases also earlier, to produce an assessment of the disabled employment potential. It is likely that the solution proposed by the drafter of the law, which foresees compulsory employment for persons with disabilities, will be very controversial. This is an emergency, for the time when the disabled were protected and the employer could not forgive them, unfortunately they passed. At that time, employers were forced to seek solutions within the disability company that they produced within their work processes, as well as the interest in hiring a disabled person who could not be forgiven, was minimal. The quota system for the employment of disabled persons will encourage employers to have disabled persons within a specific quota. Otherwise, they will be forced to pay to the Disability Employment Facility. Financial incentives for the employment of people with disabilities may also be of interest to employers. Let me get this. Every step, every move by the minister, the government and us in Parliament, which will increase not only the possibility of positive discrimination, but also the actual employability of people with disabilities, is more than welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you. And Stan Stopar gets his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to everyone in the hall! The Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities comes into consideration in the National Assembly with a considerable delay. We urgently need the law if we are to regulate the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities according to modern principles. Its adoption is certainly dictated by the future integration of Slovenia in the European Union and by the changed economic situation and by the adaptability of European Union legislation. The new methods of employment, the changed funding system, the new arrangements in the labour market, and, last but not least, the conclusion that the old 1976 law was too protective, thus kicking the disabled out of the labour market. The purpose of the law is to actively promote the employment of persons with disabilities, especially in the normal environment, in regular working relationships, in a way that ensures equal opportunities for them, thus enabling them to become equivalent to other employees and, I think, very important, to compete in the labour market. I support the boldly proposed solutions and the principles of the law for achieving the objectives, because I am convinced that this is a basis for a different understanding of disability and that rehabilitation will be directed towards the user, i.e. employment. Nevertheless, some questions are raised in the solutions defined by law. What does the law mean for the economy? Is it prepared for the challenges and challenges of marriage? Quotas are a good solution. But what do quotas mean for disabled jobs in the public sector? Perhaps jobs in the public administration are particularly suitable and it would be good to consider an increase in the quota, especially in the state administration. With its own positive example, the country would certainly be more convinced by the private sector. The solutions provided in Article 66 of the Law provide a number of types of financial incentives to reduce the number of unemployed persons and encourage employers to realize that the employment of a disabled person is not an additional burden. However, the issues also open up to financial incentives, particularly when assessing the achievement of the disability work results produced by the employer or the worker of disability rehabilitation. Will he not be interested in receiving as many subsidies as possible or in costing the employee as little as possible? More attention may also need to be paid only to the employment of disabled persons and to the creation of, for example, a company in which a disabled person is employed, especially if jobs are opened at the same time to others. It also opens up reflections on whether paragraph 42 would be necessary, such as employment centres, to be supplemented by protective guards that would prevent the spillover or elimination of unemployed persons into employment centres, since the purpose of the law is social inclusion and non-discriminatory employment. However, in view of existing thinking and conduct, such conduct may be reasonably expected. That's why it's better to prevent it. Finally, the law is a very good basis for further consideration, as the solutions to the law make it mandatory to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of persons with disabilities. Finally, according to the study, the funds invested will return quickly, which are not small in the assessment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much. That is how we came through the debate of the Member States and Members. Does the Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank all Members, Members and Members of Parliament for their support for this law. Of course, it is also an additional responsibility that this law means, and in its preparation in further readings and discussions, that it in some way becomes this law, which, in fact, as one of the discussers said, constitutes a reform in this field of employment for persons with disabilities. I therefore agree that this law would represent a major step forward in terms of employment of persons with disabilities and employment rehabilitation. Of course, the older marriage or existing marriage goes far back, as I said. It is certainly necessary to say in this debate that one of the main objectives is to reduce the rate of unemployment of people with disabilities and, of course, to increase employment. While there have been quite a few discussions on the relationship between employment and the unemployment of people with disabilities, we will, of course, pay more attention to this issue or to this issue in the next debate. I would also like to say that I would like this law to be understood in connection with other related laws. Above all, I would like to say here that one of the main objectives or orientations still means that disabled workers are as few as possible. I would therefore like to say that this law is very much linked to the law on safety and health at work where the basic objective and the motto is to reduce working persons with disabilities and disability in general. And I can say that I have recently visited one company where, after the implementation of the law on safety and health at work, the number of accidents at work and, indirectly, disability in the last three years has fallen by almost 17%, which is undoubtedly what I would say, the direction in which we wanted to understand the workplace as a safe and healthy job is the direction that we are following, of course, even when we are talking about employment rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. Let me say that it is also important to link this law with some of the policies that you mentioned here, but also with the systems, that you have highlighted here the issue of the linkage to the tax system and one part of the economic system. However, I would like to answer some of the questions raised by several debaters. In any case, it is also one of the starting points of this law that we want the inclusion of a disabled woman in the workplace to be in the most equitable way, and therefore, of course, some specific employment rehabilitation is needed. And let me immediately tell some of the conclusions that have been asked here today on the issue of employment rehabilitation, according to the data we have, last year, after the regulation of the employment rehabilitation system, which we are now legally regulating, the number of people involved in employment rehabilitation is more than 1,300 per year, which is almost three and a half times higher than it was a year ago. This is due to a more structured system, a clearer allocation of individual costs within the implementation of employment rehabilitation and, of course, better supervision. In this context, we believe that by establishing an appropriate system for the implementation of employment rehabilitation under this law, of course, it would be possible to establish a network of employment rehabilitation centres across Slovenia, which would then implement programmes that would, of course, enable the disabled to prepare for employment as much as possible. Well, that's the question. In general, the implementation of this law is devoted to the preparation of this law with a great deal of attention. With us starting or already conceptualizing these so-called rehabilitation centres for a central one, we could say, a doctrinal institution, so we are counting on this network to be operational relatively soon after this law has been implemented, this system is operational. The following was a question which was intended for the quota system itself. There must be a big challenge here because it represents, I would say, a novelty for our situation. But this is a system, a true quota employment system that exists in many countries, especially in the European Union. This is a number, that is the percentage when the employer has an obligation under this law to employ a certain quota of disabled persons. If it does not employ this number or by this number, then allocates it to the Disability Employment Promotion Fund, which means that these funds, which the employer is also committed to, are then returned to the Disability Employment Promotion System, so to speak. That seems important to me. The numbers where some of you have asked or wondered whether employers are ready or not, or not too little, to answer that the current figure that we have been able to get for the processing industry is 5.2% of the workforce, of the disabled, of the manufacturing industry. It is also important to say that it is probably paradoxical, as Mrs Stopar said in the end, the smallest number right in the public administration. In fact, it is also a challenge for us to somehow increase the number of people with disabilities in the public administration or the so-called public sector. And I think the number is about 2.3%. Just like we calculated. But it differs from one sector to another, so we actually have work to do here. We did a simulation of all sectors where we had this data at our disposal. Therefore, we believe that in the case of 6% of the so-called quota, the possibilities for additional employment of around 4,000 persons are, of course, different across different sectors. However, it is mentioned in the law that the social partners are those who in some way determine this quota. At the same time, I would say, and once again recall what I said in the introduction, that this law is socially compatible. This is said to have been agreed by employers in such a way that many of them have also ensured that by the time this law was applied to this system of employment of persons with disabilities. The next question, which concerns in particular the implementation of this law. We want the law to be ready for implementation as soon as it is enforced. It's a matter of under-laws. I think that's the 10th, 10th and 11th paragraphs talking about the rules. Then there is, I think, Article 68, when it comes to the methodology itself. We are therefore counting on the fact that, at the time of the adoption of this law, we will also speed up by means of sub-legislative acts, as we are aware that implementation and effective implementation are, of course, an effective implementation of this law, particularly depending on the enforcement of this law. I therefore understand some of the debaters, Mr Kontić, for example, who expressed the question whether it makes sense that more definitions, definitions in law or in a sub-legislative act are justified, since in fact it is mainly about, and so I understood its debate, to be able to effectively implement this system of employment. Thus, we count that this is, of course, one of the important tasks which, at the time of the adoption of this law, would, of course, be presented to this esteemed assembly to a certain extent. Some questions were, I think, Mr Gasparini, Member of Gasparini, around disabled companies, as well as some other debaters. As far as the question of disabled companies is concerned, I think it is very clear in this law that this law increases the control of disabled companies. There have been some questions, notably paragraphs 57 and 58, and I believe that if the comments you have presented here are appropriate in this area, we will, of course, prepare them for the marriage text or include them in the marriage text in the following cases. Finally, I would not say too much or because it is the purpose of the first hearing, in particular to unify ourselves in some way about the conceptualization of this law and the structure itself, that, of course, we are looking forward to today's debate, which has further enlightened and asked the bill's proposal for a certain reflection on individual articles, to individual issues and, of course, to examine these issues and to present them appropriately for a second reading. I'm sorry Dr. Sugar isn't here, but we do have an answer to his question. Perhaps not all parts of the text have been read exactly, but it is certainly one option, not the only one in this text, so called flexible working hours, which in the case he mentioned would also allow for the normal to say, employment of this young man, if I recall, up to 30 years and so on, and the first and last ending, all that he said. There is also a solution to such cases under this law. I hope that I have taken at least some of these comments that have been discussed and we hope that, after considering these comments, for which I thank you, we will, of course, correct the text in the second reading, so that it will also contain these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u135	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Dimovski. This debate was concluded if there is still no express desire to discuss these few more minutes. If anyone wants to sign up, please. Mag. Petty Officer, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Since I'm running out of time before, I'd like to add a few more things. A few more words just have to be said about suitable jobs for people with disabilities. In Article 36, you stated how to define this. This should really be asked because you have disability, indicated or blinded, deafness, mobile disability, mental disability, mental illness, short-term spectrum. And what is appropriate for a disabled person is not appropriate for another disabled person, so difficult to say that a job for a disabled person is appropriate for another person, but not for another person. Virtually all jobs that exist are somehow suitable for some type of disabled person. We're not actually going anywhere with this. At times, in those forms, there was a window at the Employment Service, where it was marked as if the job was suitable for the disabled. You know, employers all wrote that it wasn't appropriate that he didn't offer people with disabilities because, as he once accepted, there was no possibility of forgiveness and we know how it is in the logic of the market. In my opinion, this provision will remain empty. These are just nice wishes. Of course, it is important that in another area there is help for employers in terms of these professional advice on how to create jobs. This is more important how you will design this and how to put such a provision in or at least in rehabilitation practice. If I stopped by the quota system, we could also think in the direction that you have given the data now, I did not have them that the proportion of disabled persons in the public sector is significantly lower than in the market sector. It would even be worth considering that mandatory quotas should be increased for the public sector to be higher than for the market sector. This is true in some countries because it is easier to enforce the quota system and some type of forced employment in the public sector, not in the market sector. But the market sector is more sensitive to that. Increase the employment of disabled persons in a disabled company. This increased employment, this dictatorship is taken from the rules for financing disabled companies and you want to translate it into the legal text. If the quota system is in place, then I do not think that this need for such a restriction is anymore. Do you think you will run out of people with disabilities or that this is too expensive for the country if everyone gets a job? Sometime it was calculated that the most practical aid to a disabled person was his employment. If you have a genuine burden, i.e. on social assistance, it is much more expensive than if you have it in the employment process. Of course, not just for everyone, depending on the level of impact. There are also studies, however, where it is worth investing in employment, where employment will run under some other conditions, which you now call this employment centre. However, you did not tell him what the legal basis was. You'd assume it's an economic society. Now somehow there is a law on institutions in preparation, we could put this form in, because otherwise it is necessary to think about defining a non-profit economy, because it is necessary to define what profit is, what it is intended for or what the definition of this profit is. Then it's much better to do business on the legal basis of the institution. Data on the disabled company - sufficient information on the change in ownership and the cessation of the company. You have listed some other properties, changes in activities, other important decisions. This is a very fast dynamic and this data will practically do you no good unless you intend to interfere with the management of businesses. I think that these two figures are quite enough, and if you follow them, it'll be fine. Audit of annual reports. That's what I think the section for disabled companies has already told you that it's going to encourage business and I'd ask myself, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] whether or not you're going to help yourself. [[...]] I suggest that it remains as it is for [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u137	End the debate. Yes, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u138	There's probably something else going on, and my gong's singing again. And next time, there's more information. Otherwise, it is a basis for acceptance, but amendments will have to be introduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I also ask the government representatives to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much. In particular, an explanation of the appropriate jobs and proposed regulation in the law. The appropriate jobs are not as we used to know, typical jobs, such as cleaning jobs, maintenance jobs that are suitable for disabled people, but are those jobs where each specific employer will look at in himself where a specific job could hire a disabled person, or a disabled person who has become disabled during the working relationship with that employer, or that he may employ another disabled person at some job and adapt this job to the appropriate communication, information technology and employment of a blind disabled person. The employer will focus on which jobs are suitable, where he can employ disabled persons who are able to work in that job and identify such jobs in his systemisation. This is also necessary because the Labour Relations Act allows persons with disabilities to be employed in certain jobs without invitation to tender and that in those jobs that will be defined as suitable in the systemisations, the employment of a disabled person without a job invitation will be possible. By regulating suitable jobs, we also follow the Disability Management Code adopted in 2001 by the ILO and travels, not binding, but just travelling to make sure that employers, concrete, each individual, start working on disability in specific jobs. And that is followed by this arrangement. Not by doing, for example, one list of typical jobs where people with disabilities would be employed. The problem in the law is that people with disabilities are also employed in higher jobs, not just on service services, because also disabled people are able to do so if they have an adapted working environment or a job for their disability needs. With regard to disabled companies, the provisions of Articles 57 and 58 focus on the potential for the impact of the State and the possibility of supervision in disabled enterprises, for which the Ministry is competent, cannot in fact fully implement it. We have experienced quite a number of problems in disabled companies in recent years, but we were unable to influence them in a timely manner because we did not have any grounds to look into certain documents and events in this company. The problem of restricting or retaining the impact of employment in disabled companies is also the fact that people with disabilities are often employed in old-age enterprises who become disabled in a parent undertaking, but at the same time there is no other appropriate work in a disabled company, which should actually be. A disabled company usually does not have a disability employment programme, so we make this agreement conditional on an appropriate programme and regulation of suitable jobs. This is the only condition to rule, then to agree to increase employment. And as a rule, yes. It is not only when the role is to increase employment, in fact the abuse of a disabled person in employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u141	This would close the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the framework of the vote at 21.35 minutes, so I am terminating this item on the agenda. At 19.20 hours we will move on to the 13th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law amending the trade law, until then a short break. I thank the Minister and my colleagues for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u142	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, Ministry of the Economy! Good evening! We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a trade law. Following the third consideration of that bill at the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly pointed out that the law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted. In this regard, the Home Economics Committee has drawn up the harmonisation amendments. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Blaž Kavčič, for an additional explanation of the harmonisation amendments. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u143	Dear Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 18th urgent meeting on 5 February this year, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending the law on trade submitted by the Group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception by the first-signed Master Janez Drobnič. The Committee considered the proposal on the basis of Article 140, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Law's proponents stressed that the proposal for a harmonisation amendment to Article 1 was incorrect in terms of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since, without appropriate grounds, it amends the second reading of the decision on the limited sales area from 150 square metres to 80 square metres. The debate on the proposals for harmonisation amendments, however, expressed the view that the law under consideration was weak, as its adoption would result in a number of negative consequences, but it must be accepted, as it is the duty of the National Assembly to translate the referendum decision into legislative solutions. With regard to the proposal for a harmonisation amendment to Article 1, it was pointed out that the referendum issue concerned the whole proposal for a law amending the trade law tabled by the Group of Members with the first signed Master of the Drobnik. In this proposal, however, the sales area for the envisaged exemptions was limited, which can also be opened on Sundays, defined up to 80 square metres and not 150 square metres, as adopted during the legislative procedure. The referendum will must be fully respected and therefore the content of the harmonisation amendment cannot be different. In accordance with Rule 140(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the harmonisation amendments to Article 1, for a new Article 1a, for a new Article 1b and for a new Article b below. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt the reasoned harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be right out of this seat, because there's actually not much more to say. In the context of the referendum activities, the pre-referendum, post-referendum adoption of the law, we have already told ourselves everything. The citizens have also made their own decision, and only we must accept the regulatory amendments. The legal text, we can say, is slightly different from what we have prepared in New Slovenia, which we have advocated that trade can be opened in a certain number on Sundays, regardless of the sales range, which is an easier and simpler solution, and similar to other countries. Because of all that was going on, any addition to the law was made to the law. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree with this deadline for the full implementation of the law, more than half a year later, although we are aware that it takes a certain time to redevelop certain stores to prepare a new regulation. This could be arranged substantially faster than the law stated. It is also unacceptable that it took two years to implement this provision, constitutional non-compliance. Thus, these 80 squares will have a significant effect on traders. We believe that previous harmonisation amendments would be more appropriate. That's how you decided. You know, there are things we can buy from Monday to Saturday or whatever, but there are things that need Sunday. And that can answer anything that has happened in connection with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much. In the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendment. We will support it because the result of the decision taken at the referendum is the result, and because, according to our Rules of Procedure, the rejection of the proposed amendment means that the law would not be adopted and that the referendum will would not be respected in this case. We find the deadline of 15.9 acceptable and reasonable. Until then, the necessary preparations for the implementation of the new regime can be properly implemented in trades. A later period, obligations after the entry into force of the law in one year, would not be acceptable. However, we are not happy and pleased that this referendum has taken place, nor are we satisfied with the solutions contained in the referendum issue and the law. However, once again, the harmonisation amendment is necessary, and the law should be adopted as such. However, I would like to say that I am not sure whether in the debate under the harmonisation amendment, as proposed by the Group of Members, we have decided only for a period or an area of 80 or 150 square meters for formal reasons or for substantive reasons. I went to look at more or less all the documentation once, and I would not hope to argue that it was undeniably clear that the reasons were merely respect for the referendum will. If that were the case, the Law Service should also point out this, and in the entire debate that took place in the home labour body on this issue, it was never said that it was necessary to write down exactly and only 80 square meters because it was written in the law, which was not a referendum question. I would like to say this out loud for a reason, because if it is indeed in the desire for formal respect for the referendum, then it is acceptable and understandable. But if this is about trying to make business more difficult for some stores to show that the referendum was bad and unnecessary, then I don't think it's a good way because it's going to cause trouble for traders, which we probably don't want. Finally, let me say that this case of the referendum has also shown that the previous legislative referendums are a difficult thing, that there are always some tails, some open and unclear questions, some possible different explanations, that I am not talking about having an impact on the extremely long legislative process and on the ill will of many. Therefore, it seems to me that this case could also show that it would be better and necessary for our referendum legislation to be complemented by a prepared constitutional dictatorship and to ensure that the referendums remain, even the initiators could be the same, but to focus primarily on the subsequent legislative referendum, which would confirm or reject laws, but not that we are entering, I would say, under the legislator's feet and making it difficult for him to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support the harmonisation amendments because we also want this story to end. This story has made both this Parliament and the wider environment tired. This story should take place in the way that those people who felt called or felt that they were worthy of their voice to influence the story. Time will tell you sooner or later whether the partnership dialogue has matured among key players in this story, which is to representatives of owners or employers and employees, that we may be able to solve this story in a different way. Of course, we will be glad that this marriage is brought under the roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group was to be presented by Mr Kelemina, has been announced. He doesn't want to. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Blaze Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u151	Members of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will mainly support the proposed harmonisation amendments or at least we will not oppose them. We have an uneasy feeling because, on the one hand, we are fulfilling our duty to fulfil it, which means to legislate the decisions taken at the referendum and, on the other hand, we are aware that we are making a decision that will not be good for the participants. We need to understand under the participants the employees in trade, leadership, owners, buyers, all citizens. Of course, in a particular case, the most plastic expression is the fact that we have problems in the existing regulation of the referendum law and the human initiative. There was a situation where 12% of Slovenians decided that trade should be closed on Sunday. This decision, in our view, is also, of course, contrary to the trend that is present in Europe, in some cases already fully regulated by legislation and elsewhere with some local legalised practice. But this is a trend that is conditioned by trends in modern retail trade. In our view, it would be much better to remain in the current regime, which does not, of course, prescribe that trade should be open on Sundays, but allows this option under certain conditions. A fundamental condition now in force is the daily vote or vote every Sunday when customers show up in a store or not. In a store where there is no interest, the basic conditions for trade to be met are not met. And then the next filter we installed last year is the co-decision of employees in these matters. There are many reasons for arguing that the solution to be put out on 15 September of this year is better. It also seemed to us that September 15th was the shortest period that we, as a legislator, should be made available to the commercial industry to adapt to the new legal situation, as well as the minimum period within which the government would have to draw up sub-legislative acts. This law will incorporate two important solutions and only in a qualitative manner. The first solution is to identify what essential life products are or are essential to life. This category is already somewhat confused by the modern concept of life and work, but it was brought through a referendum in our space and the legislator found some approximation with that category that is in the profession called FNCG, that is, fast turning consumer goods. Another issue, which is merely qualitatively defined in the law, is the criterion for identifying trades that will be treated as trades for essential necessities of life. This is quite a task for the government to draw up appropriate sub-legislative acts. We fear, however, that, with such a law as we are about to adopt, we are opening very well-founded questions about constitutional solutions primarily from the perspective of the free economic initiative and some other constitutional categories. As stated in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not oppose the adoption of the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I now give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Surely the harmonisation amendment, which is now on the table, is a matter of principle. However, I think that even hygiene, regardless of the fact that my predecessor, Mr Potrč, says that it is also possible to throw pollen under certain feet, which, under this condition, could also have a slightly larger living space within this decision. In the context of the entire marriage solution, which is ultimately supported by this amendment, however, in my opinion, it is earlier to throw pollen under the feet in a completely different way. And in this sense, I think that the initiators of this referendum have somehow thrown pollen under the feet of all that part of the economy, which, in the middle of the summer, will have to shut down their shops in the most conjunctural places, in order to direct consumers to other shops, perhaps across the border, despite the fact that then, let's say, the borders will no longer be, there will certainly be someone else who will host those who will need it. Certainly, the initiators of the referendum, in my understanding, not only did they intervene in free economic initiatives and supposedly protected us consumers in order to avoid over-consumer appetites and thus ignore the possible other human wages of life, but I think that the initiators of the referendum have somehow thrown the catch under the feet of the ministry itself, which will be very, very difficult to produce categories on what these vital life articles are, not to mention how to define them, have had a lot of problems. In addition, I think we got in some way, of course, by my understanding of this solution, caught under our feet by ourselves. Especially those who may not be able to pass these ten days in the middle of a full-time work week in the year after the emergency life article, even after the emergency life article, are not able to obtain them unless we are able to obtain them during the week and during normal working time. I think that the poles under their feet have also received employees with the possibility of limiting additional earnings, irrespective of the fact that their earnings would have been earned within the framework of the powers and within the framework of the standards provided by the Labour Relations Act, which does not count and does not allow exploitation, which was so much debate during the course of the drafting of this law or the referendum initiative itself. I am sorry, too, that in some way, due to the still unresolved questions about the referendum initiatives in some way and in the future, the free movement of our needs and desires will be limited in the way it voted. Clearly, however, we must also face such a law as it is. On the board, I see he was definitely declared bad. I mean, he's only good inside what he was meant to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u155	I believe that colleague Majda Shirca did not understand my statement so wrongly, but let me explain it, because I was appointed and because the syntagma of "snat under the feet" has been used so many times and always in the wrong sense to explain how I used it. I did not use it in terms of the proposer of this referendum. This referendum has been the result of many attempts to address issues that have not been successful. I've been there for some of them. I know what they did to each other. And at least what it is, it's a very big mutual guilt, and it's also on the employers' side, at least only on the unions' side. I did not mention in this sense that the motions for these amendments to the committee would like to throw pollen under the feet of the national assembly, although I say again, I am not sure whether it was merely a matter of respect for formal obligations or also of difficulty in the normal law. But I'm sure it's the system we have that allows us to cross at all times. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The legislative process calls for the suspension, the raising of unclear issues and the difficulty of working, the normal part of the assembly, that these are not good and not European solutions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] So I conclude the debate. Under Article 71, Mr. Sok, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Since we were among the initiators of this law in Novi Slovenija, let me say a few more words. Now we are somehow approaching the final act, yet we will legislate the referendum will. Today is an ashtray and Slovenian churches pray, remember that you are dust and return to dust. So it's not in the spirit of time that some actually have to work, and it's free all the days of the week. For this reason too, of course, at the initiative of traders, Slovenians and Slovenians decided at the referendum and voted that trade should be closed on Sunday. That's what I voted for. And with many of the people I've met and talked about it, they've actually said that in the case of the Sunday part of the merchants, it's a big exploitation. Of course, employers took advantage of the work of trades and merchants because they were not adequately paid for Sunday’s work. To talk about a free economic initiative, then what the vital needs of life are, certainly everyone and those who want know what it is. On the free economic initiative, however, I think our fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, has presented a case that was dealt with in the United States 100 years ago. A hundred years ago, there was a limited working time. That's when the employers hired one of the lawyers, and I think it was Flofner, who, on behalf of the free economic initiative, wanted to call off the Congress's decision or to get the court to call it off. Something similar has happened with us, and unfortunately, after 100 years, you still talk about the same thing. A referendum. In order for this referendum to change the constitutional admissibility of the referendum, I do not believe that. Of course, it would be better if the ruling coalition began to realize that not only power but also responsibility. Responsibility without power is farce, like power without responsibility, you might say, tyranny. So that's what happened. You showed power without responsibility, so there was a demand for the collection of 40,000 signatures and so there was a referendum, and Slovenia and Slovenians decided as they did. And that will must be respected. That we have not adopted this law for the last time, so, of course, it is again the guilt of the ruling coalition. I will say even more precisely, on the side of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Anderlič, and the United List has attracted him, which has not allowed this law to be adopted for the last time with a surface of 150 square metres. He demanded that 80 square meters be written, as was the law, even though we all know that the referendum did not vote on the law. It goes on and in some way would attract Mr Ptræ, but it is a form of speculation and a display of this arrogance of power, which turns out in this national assembly whenever possible, but now we have brought the matter to an end after some absurdity. And what people have said is necessary, we will do. Time will tell. Me and New Slovenia think it would be more appropriate to make it legal that those stores that are open under this law could be 150 square meters, but you in LDS and the rest of the ruling coalition demanded, so today we have reached that area of 80 meters. However, I am very pleased that we will end this story, and that you will all eventually recognise the will expressed in the referendum and vote in favour of the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote at 21.35. I'm breaking up, this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Trčko, for his cooperation. At 20.15 we will move on to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda, which is to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, until then I am adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u159	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 15. POINT OF THE DAY - TO THE THIRD CONSTRUCTION OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill for further explanation of the bill, Mr Rudolph Mohet. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the decisions of the National Assembly in the second reading of the law, we received a legislative summary by adopting amendments from the SDS to Articles 11 and 12a of the amended proposal, which continues to prevent a single policy in the field of awarding distinctions. The adoption of these amendments, however, allowed the applicants to submit amendments that eliminate disputed solutions in the law and allow the uniform management of the policy of decorations in the Republic of Slovenia. We would therefore like to make an amendment to Article 11 so that the award of the "honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia" can continue to be awarded as the highest credit for the exclusive act of independence for the other credits related to the exceptional merits and actions of special importance for the welfare of Slovenia, but order and medals will be awarded in accordance with the law on the emoluments of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the law of distinction of the Republic of Slovenia remains an honour mark in force and allows applicants who have not proposed for more than 10 years an award for acts of independence committed to do so to continue or, which is unlikely, to continue to apply the law if they had to defend the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia again. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 12a, which is linked to the amendments to Article 11. The proposed amendment, however, removes the duality of the criterion for the award of the honour mark or medal, which has so far been the main reason why the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia has not been applied since 25.01.1995. So it wasn't a medal or a medal or any order. The confirmation that there was an obvious duality in the award of awards, namely only the case, on the basis of the third indent of Article 3 of the law on the embellishment of the "honorable mark of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia", the candidate could receive this award, and I quote: "for personal courage and self-sacrifice in the rescue and protection of human lives and material goods". On the basis of Article 6, paragraph 7, of the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate could receive a medal for courage, quote: "for personal courage and self-sacrifice in the salvation of human lives and material goods". The same text made it possible to give a sign of honor or a medal of courage. Then find out who can. Therefore, we propose deleting this indent in the law on the embellishment of the "honoral mark of the Republic of Slovenia", including the deletion of the fourth indent of Article 3 for the award of the honour mark of the Republic of Slovenia for the merits of establishing and strengthening international relations and the transfer of this area into the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia and the statute of honours of the Republic of Slovenia brings European practice to this field. Thus, according to certain criteria, it will now be possible to award medals or medals on the basis of the rank of the diplomat who comes to us because they have similar things arranged in other laws. The deletion of the fifth indent of Article 3 of the Act on the Distinguishing of the Honorary Mark of Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia has helped to reduce the inflation of the assigned signs, since the merit line in other areas of life and work, which are important for the sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, has made it possible to provide an extensive field of distribution and thus to infuse these honorable signs. However, this field is precisely made in the Act of Medals, because in this area we have an appropriate order or medal in terms of the candidate's work, such as culture, economy, science, social, politics, diplomacy, the military, international organisation and so on. That is why we ask Members and Members to support the amendment and the law and thus enable the Republic of Slovenia to have a single policy in the field of awarding decorations. I would also like to inform you that, just before the third reading of the draft law, we have noticed that a technical error has occurred in the text of the statute of distinctions adopted in the second reading as an annex to the draft law. In the third paragraph of the fourth paragraph of the general provisions of the Statute, the first indent was deleted, which reads as follows: 'order for extraordinary merits, gold and red'. That's what we had on the board. It was an amendment to the board, but when it was printed, this thing fell off. I mean, the respect of my colleague and colleague that this is an acceptable law to eliminate this unity, and I think that when we accept it, there will also be a German proverb in Slovenia that says that no one is safe before death and decorations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the debate so far on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the Group of Members, with the first-signed colleague Mohet, the highest number of words were intended to allow for the preservation of the honour mark of freedom as the highest recognition of acts of self-reliance. The honorary mark of freedom was our first award, which was to be awarded by the President of the Republic for exceptional credits for the defence of freedom and the perpetuity of Slovenia. The distinction as a symbol of independence is precisely due to the inflation and the large number of allocations for non-self-sustaining reasons that have become subject to different feelings. On the one hand, reducing the importance of independence, on the other hand, regretting the fact that quite a few people who have played a key role in independence have not received this award. However, for actions and merit, which are not directly linked to independence, distinctions should be granted under the law on the embellishment of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a solution, and in such a way, should establish order and hence the attitude towards action and merit in various areas. A two-pronged policy should be addressed in the award of awards, the arrangements of the single monitoring body for the management of the policy of decorations and the arrangements for other relations in the sale, succession and wearing of awarded decorations. In our New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal corrected by the amendments in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Potrata will present us with the position of the United List at the end, so I invite you to take the floor for the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners, Mr Vojk Čeligo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we accept a legal definition that further regulates the area of the award of distinctions by which the State repays to an individual, is owed to a group of citizens, organisations, institutions, as well as to foreign citizens for honorable action, important work, feat or action, important for progress, protection and protection of goods in the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendments and additions submitted, we are supplementing the 1995 law on decorations in the Republic of Slovenia. An important part of the law is certainly also Annex 1, the so-called Statute of the Republic of Slovenia. This specifies the form, the characteristics of the decoration and the method of wearing, as well as the documents accompanying the medals. However, a step further would certainly be Annex 2 with an appropriate illustration or pictorial presentation of the above-mentioned features. We believe that after 12 years of independence, the Republic of Slovenia has been given the opportunity to grant its original medals also for many important acts for which it did not have the necessary medals and had to be adequately covered by the award of the central state medal, which so slowly lost its central purpose. By means of this law, we introduce some new features that have filled the gap mentioned above. We also support the amendments of the Group of Members: Moge, Pohorec, Jelinčič, Kangler, which preserve the central Slovenian national decoration and its already established reputation, thus continuing its tradition and attribute to the first and highest national medal of the Republic of Slovenia. It is likely that time will also bring about the need for new features or changes in this law. Then let the initiative remain to include in the law an additional obligation for the central national museum institution of the Republic of Slovenia to resign or trust one instance of each national medal, where it will be possible to see and perhaps admire such state symbols of the Republic of Slovenia. We will therefore adopt legislative changes in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also pleased that the proponents have found a common point with some of the concerns raised in the second reading debate by both Slovenian Democrats and New Slovenia. In particular, we are pleased that the motioners have proposed an amendment to Article 10, where they retain the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that in such a way that this distinguished honour mark of the Republic of Slovenia, which was primarily intended for the exercise and freedom, sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia or only in relation to those acts, [[...]] [[Speak indistinctly.]] Get your true meaning, as it is an honorary mark. [[...]] We are of the opinion that there are still people who are entitled for independence and those times where we are primarily talking about the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia to receive such an award, an honorary mark, on a proposal from an individual or on a proposal from the President of the State. We are also in favour of the amendment to Article 12 and will finally be given one comprehensive regulation by this law, as regards the decorations, the highest decorations in the Republic of Slovenia, where they are awarded by the President of the country in particular by the way in which this arrangement is defined in the Statute of Medals and Orders, as proposed by the applicants. The Group will therefore support the draft law in the third reading, as well as both amendments to Articles 10 and 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support both the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia and both amendments. Both amendments deal with matters very precisely and well and in accordance with the agreements of all political parties in the National Assembly. I think that the solution is extremely good and will help to clarify the award of the decorations that we cannot have today. The fact is that decorations are an important segment of human life, so we should not look at them in any way out of the ordinary or on the side, because the fact is that the award winners get, even though some say that piece of metal for some act they have done for honor and for their homeland. The fact is that in some cases this has not been the case so far, and these amendments and the adoption of this law are correcting this unsustainable situation. Once again, we will be very pleased to support the bill and both amendments in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to be presented by the Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, in particular, for your understanding discharge. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia can be compared with the debates on issues related to national symbols, since decorations have a symbolic and representative role in addition to real value. Therefore, it is important that changes and innovations be implemented thoughtfully, especially when there is no perfect consensus for them and they interfere with material that has been difficult or even insurmountable for a long time. The existence of two laws on decorations would not in itself be a distraction if, in some of the provisions on which two different groups of distinctions are credited, the hierarchy should not be hidden and the hierarchy should not be established between them. Even more disturbing was the fact that the law on embellishment proved to be non-transferable in practice, so attempts were made to amend that law, which were not successful, although some felt they could be referred to as better than the last two proposals. Last year's rejected draft law, which in many ways had similar objectives and objectives as discussed, which is to order the award of decorations, if I say so by the motioners, provided for some other solutions with consequences that it did not foresee or abandon, either on a proposal from the legislative and legal service or from the proposers and members of the Internal Policy Committee. It was also discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats was not the only one who opposed the view that the award of the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia could simply be stopped, while maintaining that it was the highest national distinction. Especially since there have been a number of honourable signs of freedom in recent times, especially because of some credits, I am thinking of the credits for freedom and merit in other areas of life and work, which are important for the sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for the merits and personal contribution to the international application of the Republic of Slovenia, are not temporary and are once and for all created. However, the debate has encouraged the submission of amendments offering such a solution that eliminate exclusion and ambiguity and, above all, ensure continuity in the pursuit of state distinctions. Since, in the UK Group, we want the proposed law to remove the uncertainty about the award of decorations, and in particular to revive the 1995 law on decorations, if they are to be supplemented, and the award of the honour mark on the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia will not be abolished, we will fully support the law. Of course, we are aware that some additions, in particular those that will determine transport with decorations, will nevertheless be necessary. The statute, which is an integral part of the law, and as a non-expert in the field of decorations, I cannot judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a debate on the draft law as a whole. Would you like a word, Mrs. Zupan? He doesn't want to. Mr. Tribal would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. As foretold today, a number of Members and Members who did not make use of their time have spoken. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 24.2.2004. First, I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment to this Article of the same motions. Nobody wants to discuss it either. So I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote at 21.35. I'm breaking this agenda. At 9:35 a.m., we move to the voting point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u172	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to the vote. Please check your voting devices if everything is all right. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which we continue, is the first reading of the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The proposal for a law on corporate income tax, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting! There are 70 of us present, 50 votes against 16. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I am moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on local self-government. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The proposal for a law on local self-government, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. I will put this proposal to the vote. And before that, the explanation for the vote, Comrade Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not oppose the proposal for this decision, but not for the reason that we consider it appropriate to base the bill on local self-government, but for the reason that we have found in the debate today that in this National Assembly there is an opportunity for a real local coalition to take place, which, of course, after a public presentation of opinions, can, of course, form a law that will be suitable for the further development of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? I will put the motion to the vote. We're voting! There are 68 of us present, 37 votes against 25. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body for a second reading. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. I am moving on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Please note, we are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, first reading is appropriate for further consideration. This proposal for a decision will be put to the decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members of Parliament present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the parent’s working body in the second reading. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the trade law, the harmonisation process. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments of the Committee on the Economy. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to Rule 140, paragraph 9, of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the legislative procedure in the law is terminated if any of the harmonisation amendments are not adopted. May I have your attention in the vote? We move to a vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 1. An explanation for Anton Anderlich's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u175	I will vote in favour of the harmonisation amendment because Mrs Drobnič, Bajuk, Bernik, Mamić and Sok, and Mrs Tisovic and Zupan have introduced the law into a procedure that contained a 80 square-metre sale limit and because voters and voters have thus decided to limit the sales area, and how many weeks and holidays, especially Sundays, can be opened in these days. I will vote because it is not true what Mr Sok said two hours ago, around 7:50, when he said that 150 square metres would have been illegal if it had not been for me at the head, he mentioned my name, he would have changed it. This is not true, and it must be strongly denied, because it is only that ladies and ladies, obviously in the midst of offering voters a solution, they wanted to legitimize another solution, but now they are reading that what they themselves offered at the referendum is being challenged by someone else. That's unacceptable. And because I respect the will of the electorate, and because I respect the proposal made by the gentlemen and the ladies in law and after the previous referendum, which is linked to the solutions in the law, it is necessary to respect what is offered and if the electorate also votes. I will therefore vote in favour of this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u176	We are without debate, we are before the vote and there is a possible explanation for the vote. Comrade Aloys Sok, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u177	I am sorry that colleague Anderlič did not listen to or read the magnetogram of Mr. Potrč's discussion, then it would become clear to him that if he did not believe that the referendum did not vote on the law, so it was not a vote on whether it was strictly 80 m2. 80m2 has arisen, Mr. Anderlich, I repeat, to the express insistence of you. For the last time, if we were to adopt this 80 m2, it would be within 150 m2, but today it is the case as it is. To make things even more complicated, I don't know why you insisted on this, and of course, I remain in my opinion. As I said, of course I will vote in favour of this law and I am pleased that we will bring this story to an end.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u178	I'm asking you once again not to start the controversy. The explanation of the voice is possible, and first John Petty Officer then Jože Ašič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u179	Mr. Anderlich, we can go back a little further and figure something out. An explanation of why I will vote as I will tell you in the end. If this national assembly had behaved reasonably, it would not have had a referendum, it would not have all these complications, but would have a truly good solution in favour of all parties - sellers, shopkeepers and buyers. Since this was not the case, of course it was a referendum question. The referendum question was not about the square, but about the limitation. But this was a preliminary legislative referendum. Of course, there was no possibility of any correction. If this proposal, well-intentioned, New Slovenia, were to be regulated, there would probably be another matter under this law for tourist destinations and so on. However, since there was no such understanding, not from the Chamber of Commerce, the union was forced to do so. This referendum will therefore need to be confirmed. I will abstain because we should do the referendum will as quickly as possible, but the manoeuvre is such that it is settled in autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you. Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'm kind of glad to see how sorry we are that we have to adopt this law at all. However, we have to because he was at the referendum and we have to put him in the text as he was put in and sent to the previous referendum to decide people. There is nothing else, no dissension in this House, no interpretation in its own way, of the text that has been tabled on the basis of which the referendum has been carried out, we must unfortunately legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u182	We're moving to the vote. Diaci explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I was already at the last session when we discussed this harmonisation amendment or asked or asked someone to check their credit card, what it means to buy vital life items that consumers often buy, usually daily, without any particular emphasis and for which they spend a lot of time shopping. I'd like to, of course I'll vote for it, but I'd like someone to personally check it with their credit card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u184	There's no more debate. It was possible to explain the voice. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 70 of us present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1a for a new Article 1.a. You've got it in your file. May I have your attention, please? We will vote in favour of the amendment for the new Article 1a. We're voting. There are 70 of us present, 63 votes in favour, none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment for the new Article 1a has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new paragraph 1.b. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the amendment for a new Article 1.b. There are 71 of us present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to the new Article 1.b has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1.c. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that this amendment for the new Article 1c has also been adopted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments, so we can move on to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 69 of us present, 63 votes in favour, none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. I am moving on to the end of the 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment to Article 10. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the amendment to Article 10. There are 65 of us in attendance. 64 votes in favour, none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 71 of us present. 68 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since the legislature and the government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law has not been harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole, with the technical correction made by the applicant, the first-signed Rudolf Moge, in writing. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 68 of us in attendance. It was 59, 9 against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[9 against.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby adjourn the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your cooperation and good night!
