ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	For one second today, I will exceptionally wait for colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to join us. Then I'll ask for silence in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to remain silent in the National Assembly? Can I ask for silence in the National Assembly? Thank you very much. Madrid has recently been the target of a terrible terrorist attack that cost more than 200 dead and several times as many wounded. They were ordinary people who were rushing after their usual activities that day; they were innocent victims of some senseless violence that we strongly condemn and reaffirm our commitment to a common fight against him. We convey to Spain the expressions of our interest and solidarity. We want our Spanish friends to be able to overcome pain and that we can all together create a world of peace, not a world of fear, where people would not have to fear for their basic security. The victims of the Madrid tragedy were not spared and we bow to them with a minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute of silence.]] [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the agenda of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend today due to other obligations of the assembly. These are colleagues: Battelli, Kacin, Kangler, Kavticnik, Kelemina, Levič, Maršič, Pohorec, colleague of Potter, colleague of Peterle and by 16:00 will not be with us a colleague of Spindler. Now we will move on to the decision on the agenda in its entirety. I have not received any proposals to withdraw and extend the agenda. So I'm going to put the agenda you've received into reception. I would just like to point out this, as far as point 10 is concerned, if the conditions for it are not met, the 10th point of the National Assembly, of course, will not be considered. I therefore propose that we decide on the agenda in its entirety, as proposed by the College. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we'll go to the vote. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. If everything is all right, we'll decide on the agenda as you received by reference. We decide on the agenda as you received by reference. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 44 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. At 3 p.m., we will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Please be punctual. The first three questions will be asked by colleagues Bajuk, grandson and colleague Jelinčič. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! Good-bye, everybody! I also particularly welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. You have an order to ask questions and answers to them. According to normal practice, the Prime Minister will first answer three questions raised by our opposition colleagues. The questions will then be answered by those ministers who owe our colleagues and colleagues the answers to the questions already raised and have not yet received an answer due to their absence, and then we will continue to ask questions to Comrade Drobnik, who will conclude this agenda as of 33. We have two excuses. Minister Bizjak is detained due to obligations related to the international activity of Slovenia. Also Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin. I have no other excuses so far, and we can start a full agenda. He will be the first to receive the floor of a colleague, Dr Andrej Bajuk, who will raise the question to the Prime Minister. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! On the round table published in the last Saturday annex of Dela, Minister Keber stated that a year ago the insurance profession rejected the proposal to make supplementary insurance premiums dependent on income. That is why, according to him, you should give up this concept and in the so-called White Paper you have simply and fairly radically proposed the abolition of supplementary insurance, or you have proposed that the current voluntary payments become mandatory, including certain changes regarding progressiveity. The profession, especially economists and lawyers, but also doctors in various public debates drew attention to the conceptual incomprehensibility of the proposed abolition and, last but not least, to its legal impossibility. Well, a few weeks ago, after a meeting of the Health Strategic Council, you stated in person that you finally rejected this essential part of the White Paper and instead of abolishing voluntary supplementary insurance, you said in the ruling coalition that you would keep it. A, however, to the extent that the same principles would apply in certain equipment as in determining contributions to compulsory health insurance. Therefore, the premiums for voluntary additional insurance, which we already know in Slovenia, or on the basis of the risks or expected insurance costs, would not be defined everywhere in Europe in accordance with established and consistently applied principles, such as the principle of intergenerational solidarity, which, as I have already mentioned, but according to Minister Kebra, the premiums for supplementary insurance will depend on the income of the insured, which the insurance profession has already successfully refused last year. Since this is a voluntary additional health insurance, high-income insurers who should pay premiums that would significantly exceed the expected costs will certainly come out of such insurance. Under such a concept, will not certain premiums remain in supplementary health insurance only for low-income insurers who will calculate that the premiums are lower than the expected cost of paying their own participation? Then who's going to cover the loss to the private insurance company? How do you propose, Mr President, to ensure the long-term existence of such a system? The changes you are proposing, in particular your intention to fix premiums on the basis of the income of the debtors, constitute a grave breach of the bonding relationship and the functioning of the market. According to a reputable Slovenian economist, whose assessment I fully agree and also [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Such an approach is of concern because it shows how the country understands the market economy. [[...]] Can any minister who does not even understand what a market economy is and is essentially the slave of dogmatic samples from the previous system propose to interfere in bond relations and the market? Mr President, you personally have publicly supported this proposal. Did you mean it? Please explain, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question. It is true that there have been some changes in the government's strategic council regarding health reform. Undoubtedly, however, the health reform in that very important work, at least in that which is crucial for end-users, for citizens and citizens, has remained as we have originally proposed. I am talking, of course, about that part of the health reform that talks about improving the efficiency of the health system, better governance and, of course, rationalisation and savings, which in this regard are also possible and, of course, more accessibility to health services and shorter species. And in this part, health reform remains unchanged or its objectives remain. What was the subject of a broad discussion after the White Paper was published was the transfer of supplementary insurance, which by its nature has the nature of compulsory insurance, to compulsory insurance. Economists warned in these discussions, including Dr Kranjec, that this could cause pressure on wage increases, so that this could, of course, result in pressure on price increases and that this could be economically harmful. In order to prevent this, we have examined and examined various possible options for solving this problem, but in today's complementary insurance has acquired a very important part of the nature of the compulsory. By content. The health insurance profession has proposed this solution, which was finally adopted in the strategic world and, of course, means that such premiums would also be paid depending on income. This is an example that has been summarized in French experience and that is why we have also agreed that the Ministry of Health should cooperate with the French Actors when it prepares the final version, which will also be proposed in the law and will be explained to the Slovenian public. France also had a broad and wide discussion with the European Commission in this regard, and it has finally received certain disputes concerning the European Commission in this area and has implemented and has. And now there are specific professional solutions, or projects and models, that will then be presented to accuracy. And who, of course, will have to take into account what you are alerting them to. How in this case and how to regulate the possibility, on the one hand, of continuing private schemes which are publicly controlled and controlled in the part where this system is regulated. I would also like to say that the discussion on supplementary insurance has shown that it is possible to use much more of the funds collected in supplementary insurance, which are now intended for different provisions, to be used for investment in development, to be used in development programmes in the field of health, and also in this part we have made an important addition to the reform. However, there is still an important debate in the professional public, particularly among economists, whether the level of rationalisation and greater efficiency envisaged by the health reform is sufficient whether it is possible to increase additional efficiency in relation to those assessments that have been made in recent calculations and are of course also known. So that I propose that, of course, we wait for the profession, the insurance profession, including the one invited from other countries, to present this model and then talk about whether such a scheme, which is presented in the basic idea, is what is acceptable and the place for this discussion will, of course, be when the law is presented in the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Bayuk, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	The system you are now proposing is once again a Slovenian transitional unique. The White Paper in the fifth part of Chapter 1 describes that the premiums for voluntary insurance in mutual insurance companies in Europe are uniform as in Slovenia and in commercial insurance companies depend on the risk of individual insurers and fluctuate in particular depending on age and gender. It also mentions that in France, in some mutual insurance companies, premiums that are proportional to income have been introduced in group insurance. So your proposal follows a unique case in private insurance in Europe, known only by mutual insurance companies in France, and only by some. You are certainly aware of the White Paper's warning on the European Court's case-law, which is not favourable to mutual insurance companies with proportional premiums, which is said to be an extremely controversial system for EU institutions. Why do you even propose to him? Finally, if France is an example of how did you overlook the White Paper’s information that in this country voluntary mutual insurance premiums are paid by both employees and employers? You have also overlooked, Mr President, that France introduced a special health tax in the 1990s, based on all revenues, including capital revenues, savings, subsidies and so on. This tax has increased from 1.1% to 7.5% in the last ten years, and the wage contribution rate has decreased from 5.5% to 0.75% in employees and remained unchanged in employers, while the 55th page of your book has remained unchanged. As in tax reform, you have forgotten here, too, that the burden has been shifted to capital gains and you intend to protect capital owners in advance. Even though you're still presenting your proposal as some noble work of a looting knight who takes away rich people and helps poor people like Robin Hood. But other people around the world call those who act the other way around a bad Robin. Why this oversight, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	I think you're more unnecessary than Robin, but it doesn't matter. Nor does it hold to this claim when you claim that we want to protect capital, far from it, quite the contrary, and you have said this in this second part of your discussion. Otherwise, it is really a problem that we have a unique system of complementary insurance in Slovenia. Nowhere in Europe, if you have already looked, you will not find a supplementary insurance that would include more than 90% of those involved in the compulsory insurance. So we have a unique system and we need to adapt. And they're possible two times. The first time is to automatically transfer the supplementary insurance to the mandatory. In this regard, many discussions have been held and you will probably agree that the largest part of the economic sector in Slovenia, but I must say, including those associated, for example, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, has expressed very serious concerns about such a solution. So the next option is to leave such complementary insurance as we have, which covers compulsory insurance and is unfair, unfair to those who have lower wages, and also unfair to those who have higher wages, or to make changes. And the only change that's possible in this context is the change that's going in the direction they've been looking for in France. Of course, technical solutions in this regard are relatively complex and will not be easy to find, but they are now actively working on. However, this is not the most important part of health reform, this is not the most important part. The most important part is that of one side to rationalisation, to better governance, to greater efficiency and, on the other hand, to provide additional resources from this source. First, of course, reducing the current loss of health insurance and then further providing additional services, additional programmes and making health services more accessible. That's the essence of health reform. And this part that you're talking about is just part of the problem that we're facing and comes from a historical fact. History is, however, that a large majority of the Slovenian population is involved in supplementary insurance, which essentially has the nature of compulsory insurance. And that's what we're doing now when we're doing health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk. Only a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that Mr President says that the section will examine this further, and his Minister has stated that she has already done so and has refused to do so, I propose that we discuss this issue on the basis of our Rules of Procedure. Clearly, there are various data available to Mr President and his Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	It is a matter of the right given by the Rules of Procedure to require the Parliament to decide whether to consider this answer to the question at its next meeting as a specific item of the agenda or not; this will be decided by the State Assembly without discussion, under the first item of the decision to be taken on the agenda of today and tomorrow. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by his colleague Vnučec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Minister and Prime Minister! On 27 February, on behalf of the Government, you signed an agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia on joint cooperation in the field of student affairs, including on the increase of student housing capacity, on the equipment of universities and on the essential agreement that there will be no tuition for regular studies, of course, all in the direction of a better education structure, which will lead the Slovenian economy in the new European country to the best possible efficiency and in this regard also make it possible for all citizens and citizens to enjoy as much prosperity as possible. In this way, individual ministries have also been given specific tasks, the Ministry of Labour, in order to ensure the employment and scholarship of young people, the Ministry of Finance, in order to maintain the current stimulating tax policy in the field of student work, the Ministry of Health, in order to ensure the insurance of diseases and injuries that may occur in such student work. Of course, most of the tasks here will fall to the Ministry of Education to aim at maintaining higher education as a public good, which also means, in the final stage, under national programmes, that there is no tuition for regular higher education. Of course, some minor problems have already occurred, namely, the Ministry of Finance is late, and it was not until last week that a budget fund was set up, which in a certain law, the law on the implementation of the budget, was supposed to derive funds from an additional concession fee, where the Community of Students of Slovenia, together with the Ministry of Education, drafted this proposal for legislation and together in this way, contributed to this supplement, the concession fee, to build student homes and to improve the working conditions of the university. Of course, delays are not listed here, they are potentialed here, so any such delay, because they are not yet some other operational, other operational procedures of the Fund's own operations, can lead to a one-year delay. While there is a security guard that these funds are being transferred, we will not achieve anything by raising funds and transferring them to next year. The essence is to change the novel on higher education, following the Bologna process towards the creation of a common European higher education space. This novel takes root in the existing higher education system, introduces three stages of study and is expected to be shorter. My question is, this is where the tuition is introduced, for the second and third stages. The students' proposal was that there should also be no tuition for the second stage, and if we follow the agreements of 27 February of this year: Why is the proposal of the Slovenian student organisation not taken into account in the orientations I have already said that we are contributing to the maximum human potential of our country and thus, in the final stage, to the welfare of citizens and that we are not creating further social discrimination in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Time's up. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. So when it comes to funding or co-financing fees for the first, second, third, first, it is appropriate to say that in Slovenia we have a system where undergraduate studies are financed by public funds and we have free education so far. On the other hand, we have a master’s or postgraduate course and a doctorate, which is co-financed only in part. As we look at this data, then we see that the number of students enrolled in postgraduate studies has increased rapidly in recent years and is increasing further, about 3,000 in 1998, in this school year to 7 000 and is expected to double. As the number of students in postgraduate studies rapidly increases, the co-financing of postgraduate studies by the State increases from year to year. From 881 students to 3,500 students in 2004. And we expect that the scope of this co-financing of the postgraduate study will be further increased so that 1.6 billion Slovenian tolars are earmarked for this purpose in 2004. When we talk about the new education structure, which defines the first stage at which the undergraduate course is, second and third, where we count the Master's degree and the doctorate, then let me say that our goal is to increase the co-financing of the postgraduate study to 75% globally. Of course, this means that social criteria will also be taken into account to ensure that some students, or those who will be socially at risk, have paid full postgraduate studies. We therefore believe that it is necessary to provide everyone with the possibility of postgraduate studies, this will also be ensured, 100% co-financing by the State. In those cases where students can co-finance postgraduate studies, however, we believe they can afford 25% of co-financing. This is such a scheme and, in our opinion, it is not contrary to this agreement that we have concluded with a student organisation that talks about regular study and, of course, about funding undergraduate studies. All of this is a scheme that we have already presented, which I am also presenting today, and is in many ways contrary to many ideas, including from the university where some, of course, propose co-financing at all stages and everywhere. We have adopted this concept that we are talking about. This means that everyone will be able to receive a postgraduate and postgraduate study. But those who, of course, can afford co-financing because of both wealth and income or income relationships.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Completing the question. Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Already, almost a large majority of students, at least 5, if not anymore, work hours to pay for their studies due to non-stimulating scholarship policy. So at this first stage, if we're talking, if we can compare this first stage to the current system. That's why my question. Since there is a serious fear here, and in view of some of the programmes adopted, national programmes, which were foreseen this year, would target at least 1.4% of GDP for tertiary education, and some calculations suggest that only 1.2%. So I hope that there is no reason for saving here and that there should be no saving here, so I see this proposal by the student organisation of Slovenia as well as that there are no tuitions for the second level, in this way that the situation of the large majority of students is already difficult. And, of course, if they want to move forward, in the second and third stages, it is clear that they should not be confined to social differentiation at the expense of this choice. That is why, of course, I would suggest that this proposal be re-examined and not rejected by 'a priori', but then found a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Would you like to complete the answer? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	I absolutely agree with you. I think everyone needs to be able to study undergraduate and postgraduate. We believe that this scheme, which is now presented by the Ministry of Education, is such that it allows everyone to do so. Of course, we are always ready to talk about this with the student organisation, as we agreed, we will do so. We have a special world to discuss this and together we will discuss and see if there is anyone else who could have fallen out of the study under this scheme, and if that were to happen, we will correct the proposal accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you. Thirdly, the last question to the Prime Minister will be asked by colleague Jelinčič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. On 12 March this year, the Slovenian National Party sent an invitation to the government to regulate the assembly system in Slovenia or as a draft law, a sample of some sort. The fact is that despite our knowledge of the private chambers and the public-law chambers, they are only public-law, they are those established by the state by law and are supposed to carry out tasks in the public interest. As a rule, the State should provide financial resources for the exercise of public interest, but this translates into members. This means compulsory payment of membership in each Chamber. The private chambers set up by natural or legal persons with a contract or other act establishing it are unknown to us. Why such an approach to the State? And the State imposes upon the public chambers, that is the true trust of the public authority to carry out administrative tasks and thus gives them somehow or create a para-executive authority. There is no supervision of the functioning of the public-law chambers. The legality, purpose and cost-effectiveness of financial resources should be monitored. However, a parafiscal system is being created, as the Ministry of Finance does not carry out any controls, and the Chambers operate in this way and they also create a parafiscal system and thus have a parallel authority. It is also a decision of the Constitutional Court, which does not actually know the existence of private chambers and is already wrong from the source, as there is a 42nd paragraph of the Constitution which speaks of the right to freedom of association. It is true in Europe that this is regulated in different ways, but most members of the European Union define membership as voluntary. All of them allow the free choice of rooms that we don't have. We ask the government: Does it intend to examine our proposal for a law and adapt the assembly business to European standards in such a way as to take into account the possibility of private chambers and, in particular, the non-payment of the so-called mandatory voluntary contribution to the functioning of the Chambers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, you have already answered part of what you have asked in the question. So it's about the status of individual chambers. In the case of a public law chamber, it is clear that public powers are conferred on it. And the Constitutional Court, in its opinion, has so decided and, of course, considers that, as far as public-law chambers and public powers are concerned, then it is not contrary to the Constitution, in so far as membership is compulsory and payable. Something else is, of course, the amount of membership and the discussion on whether the amounts of membership in individual cases are true, high enough or made by way of a measure. You have had such a discussion in the National Assembly at the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and, of course, opinions were very different. And I agree with you that this discussion is always possible. I know and I know that you have tabled this proposal and we will, of course, look at it and look at the various proposals that you make in this proposal and give, gold in that part of the discussion, whether it is possible for public chambers to make some kind of competition, competition in that part where certain public powers can, of course, be given, if possible, if it is such a type of transfer, services, also passed on to others and, of course, reduces the potential membership that is being paid. By taking this into account and, of course, by reminding you or by stressing that, as far as the courts of public law are concerned, they are, and there is also, supervision of such chambers and supervision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Completing the question. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your answer. He told me that the government would consider our proposal, which we sent to the government. However, something about the Constitutional Court's decision first. The decision does not refer to membership, compulsory but refers to compulsory membership and part of the decision even states that the Constitutional Court is not competent to judge the compatibility between the provisions of the same regulation or regulations of the same type. It is said that we can have compulsory membership here, but not compulsory payment of membership fees. Well, I think it makes sense for these matters to be regulated as they are in other European countries. Above all, I may not agree with the Prime Minister that sufficient control of the chamber business is ensured through control through the Court of Auditors. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe in the parliamentary group that this control should be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, because otherwise it happens that in fact certain chambers are becoming parafiscal or parallel financial authorities and through them certain financial flows are being diverted in an unknown direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Would you like to add? No, no, no. Then he'll stay with your previous response. Mr Prime Minister, thank you very much for participating in this part of the meeting of the National Assembly at point 1. We will continue to ask questions from colleagues and colleagues to ministers and ministers. First of all, the Minister of Transport will answer the three questions that have already been posed to him and he cannot answer them due to his absence. It'll be a question of the mags. A visionary on the rehabilitation of state roads damaged by the construction of motorways was raised at the 33rd meeting. At the same meeting, colleague Sok raised the issue of railway accidents. At 34 and at the previous meeting, a colleague of Trofenik on the planned Lisbon-Kiev railway link. I'm asking mag first. Visionary, is there anything else he'd like to add to the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to add a few more questions to this: in the context, it is clear that, of course, in the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, operators use, among other things, local roads, as well as state roads, which, of course, transport construction materials, are burdened by the construction of the motorway itself, which is a state project. Under the regulations and even under the contracts, operators are obliged, once part is completed, to repair these roads or to restore them to their original condition. The Minister's reply states that, in accordance with the specific conditions which form an integral part of the signed contracts between Darsa and the operators of parts on individual motorway legs, operators are obliged to monitor or monitor the state of the environment all the time and to implement measures to ensure environmental protection and protection and transport safety. It further states that operators are obliged to organise part of the contract at the time of construction so as not to reduce safety on the existing road network. I have asked the question because the operators do not comply with these provisions. A typical example is the construction of a highway on the section of Krška vas-Brežje, where it is used by road operator to transport construction material 15 kilometers away, if not longer the leg of the regional road Brežice-Bizeljsko and managed to destroy it in two years to a good extent, especially through the forest of Dobrava, to destroy it. So there is no more traffic safety since the road is entangled and car slides are coming from the road. In short, the contractor did not care about the state of existing traffic safety or did not care about the rehabilitation of these roads in such a way as to ensure transport safety. On the question, I asked the Minister how and by what instruments will the State, as owner and manager of state roads, achieve and ensure that operators, after the completion of the works and also now during the construction, will ensure normal transport and road safety. Those performers, unfortunately, don't work. And I cannot conclude from the Minister's reply how and by what means the State, as manager and owner of these roads, will ensure normal security conditions and also the state of these roads between construction and after construction. Therefore, I ask the Minister to tell me in concrete terms, perhaps also for this particular section, which was mentioned in the written question: What will the Ministry and the state do to drive on roads that are safe and in the same condition as before construction?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Minister President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you so much for asking. So you're on your own, mag. Vizjak, explain what our response was, so I think it is pointless to redefine this work, so which things are prescribed or agreed at the time of the adoption of the Location Plan Regulation and at the time when the implementing contracts are concluded, i.e. between the investor and the contractor. I do not know the exact answer that could be given to you for a specific road section, but the fact is that during the construction of such complex projects as motorway sections, the existing infrastructure is much more used, this is the infrastructure that already exists in a given area, especially the one that connects the individual finds of grammatical materials, this is primarily the biggest problem, and the infrastructure that is necessarily used in carrying out construction works on these sections. Therefore, in particular, in this area, appropriate contracts are being prepared or prepared under implementing contracts, under the regulation, contracts between the administrator, which is the municipality - first of all, local roads - between the operator or the owner and, on the other hand, the highway investor and the contractor of construction works on this motorway section. Therefore, an appropriate contract is being drawn up, on the basis of which appropriate and necessary remedial work will be carried out. There are also appropriate arrangements and contracts for the state road network, which exists in this area and which, of course, is taken care of by the body in the composition of the Ministry of Transport, this is the Directorate for the Roads of the Republic of Slovenia and again between, of course, the DARS and, on the other hand, or on the third hand, between the contractors of construction works. So, in principle, it is that operators are responsible and must, by their own resources, remedy the damage caused by overburdening the remaining infrastructure. However, in those cases where vehicles or transports do not exceed the permissible weight may be used, account shall be taken of the significant burden of driving, such as the usual number of driving, daily driving on individual sections or local or national networks, which was at the time of construction itself. So, of course, there are mechanisms and there are corresponding contracts and provisions of the Location Plan Regulation, which ensure that, of course, after the completion of each motorway section, the rest of the network is put in place at least as before the implementation of these works.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Complementary question, colleague mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. You have mentioned, Minister, that in preparation for the contracts, two contracts are indeed in preparation, one between the local community and operators for local roads and the other between the country and the public road operators, but these contracts have been in preparation for one year, no signature has taken place. I ask, Mr. Secretary-General: Will you personally advocate that, just before the completion of the construction project, or now in the second half, these contracts will be signed? The second is the question: When can we expect these normal sanitation conditions on the roads themselves that are in contracts? This is said to be the case, in accordance with the contract, that operators are also obliged to do this at the time of transport, not only after the completion of the work, but also currently, unfortunately, this has not happened. One more thing to tell you, as Minister, how contracts are respected. The regulation clearly states that the contractor must also have the consent of the local community to organise the site at the time of construction. Unfortunately they crashed the overpass in Ribnica, it is on the foot of the highway Krška vas-Brežje, without the consent of the local community, although they well know that in the procedures we should obtain it. In short, contractors, respected ministers, are very reluctant to stick to and avoid agreements and contracts, unfortunately always and usually at the expense of the local community. Today, I am informing you that it is not on the State's account that the State will make sure that these regionals, which are its own and its management, are eventually cured by excessive burdens, as well as by the actual contractor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Would you like to complete the answer to this question? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	So thank you very much for the additional question and especially suggestions. I would say that it is on most sections that have already been built or that have been built, that things have, of course, settled after completion of construction. In this case, it's about individual sections that are still in construction. I know that there have been many problems in the past year, including the impact of construction or traffic on parallel roads, the environmental impact, including dusting and so on, especially due to the great heats that occurred last summer and in fact did not help any power or anything else, and the environment was, of course, extremely burdened or threatened at that time. So the other suggestions were to make personal arrangements for these things to be signed as soon as possible, as you spoke about them, and to support these things at the end of construction or at the end of construction. Well, I took that as an initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Today the question of railway accidents will also be answered by colleague Sok. Do you want to repeat the question? I would ask you to give this question in summary before asking the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to repeat, but only earlier, by the way, if I am allowed to, if the Prime Minister thinks we are bad Members, I would suggest that he step between people who wait for half a day and more to get to the doctor's office, he will see how bad these citizens are. As for my question of the mission, which I put at the January session. At the time, the minister was officially a percentage, and then he was absent from the February session because of his illness. I'll repeat it very briefly. I ask him about the accident that took place on 23 December at the railway station in Slovenska Bistrica. At that time, several wagons of the freight train were wiped out at this station. It was a damage caused on a longer section of the line, on the tracks themselves, then on the racetrack, on the platform of the station, and even on the roadway for passengers. We can imagine what would happen if a passenger train and passengers were there at that time. According to the media, there was damage to some 600 million Slovenian tolars at the time, which was December 23rd, and two days due to the accident between Prague and Poljčany, so the passengers were transported by buses. This accident is, however, what the media have written, because of course we do not know otherwise, so we are also asking this and the accident is due to the length of the wheelbed on one of the wagons. I ask the Minister: How is it possible that a car was in a malfunction along Slovenian railways? It's either a Slovak car or a Czech car, I don't know exactly anymore, because it's been a long time since that question. And: Perhaps this accident is not already the result of the law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise of the Slovenian Railway Company. Indeed, as soon as this law was passed and the single Slovenian railway system was divided into three companies, some of us warned that something like this would happen. Now it can be just a coincidence. Thank God it won't go any further. So I'm asking you: What is the matter with this matter, and who will settle the damage if it is as great as the media have written? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you so much for asking. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you so much for asking. So I would give the answer at the following points. On the basis of the Regulation on towing and technical-wagon activities and instructions for carrying out technical-wagon activities defined by the Railway Safety Act, wagons shall be inspected at initial and final stations. So also all those wagons that come from abroad and from there, when the wagons are examined on our tracks, we are actually responsible for their condition. So, at the starting station in Cyprus, the train was technically inspected and shipped as technically flawless. The removal of the train occurred, as you have already found, due to the fractures of the axles of the wheeled two freight wagon as a result of overheating the axle bearing during the only ride of the train composition, which unfortunately cannot be predicted in advance after providing the profession. This was due to the technical malfunction caused by the train composition and, once again, it was not possible to predict. Of course, an extraordinary event is not the result of a new law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railway public enterprise, since these procedures are regulated and so on by the relevant legislation. In doing so, I would like to point out the following, at the same time, that the Slovenian Railways holding a survey of this event, in accordance with the applicable sub-legislative rules, has appointed a Commission which has carried out an appropriate investigation into the fact that the Commission, in its report as the cause of the emergency, has cited a hidden error in the composition of the rear wheeled two on the wagon. The Commission’s opinion on the liability for the emergency occurred was the fracture of the wheeled two’s axle and the resulting inclination of the trolley and the removal of the wagon. Following receipt of the Commission’s report, the Railway Agency did not agree with the Commission’s findings, particularly in the part relating to the responsibility for the emergency. Therefore, the decision of the Director of the Agency appointed a new Commission with members of the Agency and the Slovenian Railway Holding Agency, whose task is to re-examine all circumstances in which an emergency occurred and to determine whether an emergency could be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Completing the question. Please, Comrade Sok. I'm just asking that no comment on any other questions or discussions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	I'll follow your advice. Mr President, I listened very carefully to the Minister, you did not answer me about the level of the damage and who will compensate for the damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	I must say that I do not have the exact amount of damage because, after all, all these procedures have not been completed, although the rehabilitation work on the track has been done. The part that is the subject of infrastructure or track insurance will be covered by insurance companies, the rest, of course, will not be complete, remains a matter of maintaining a state-owned railway infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Next, the final question to Minister President will be raised by Comrade Trofenik, whom I do not see at this time in the Chamber, and Please, Minister, do you want without reference? [[...]] Comrade Trofenik Please, this is a question of the anticipated Lisbon-Kiev railway connection. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	It is a question of intended transport links in the European Union or in Europe. We are all well aware of what are those priority projects within the European Union that have been developed by the so-called Van Mirtova Working Group, also proposed by the European Commission to the European Parliament. In these projects we have the Koper-Divač project on Slovenian soil and reconstruction or reconstruction of the Ljubljana-Pragersko-Hodoš-Budapest line. In the context of the examination and adoption of this document, a large number of amendments were given in the European Parliament, one of them being said to alter the course of this railway connection between Ljubljana and Budapest with the relation Ljubljana-Maribor-Graz-Budapest. We are, both with the relevant conclusions of the Government and in the world of transport ministers, with the great cooperation of our mission in Brussels, and I must also say, with very sharp opposition to such a change by the neighbouring Republic of Hungary, we therefore oppose this proposal, and I am confident also after recent events and discussions in Brussels that the original version of this railway connection will remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So now we have answered the questions that have already been asked, and we can go to the current questions. First of them will be colleague Maria Pozsonec. This is a matter for the Minister of Labour. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs would like to draw attention to the next problem. Pursuant to Article 25 of the Regulation on the criteria for fixing the exemption from the payment of social security services, beneficiaries of full-day institutional protection are fully or partially exempt from the payment of the contribution to domestic services. The payer must provide means to cover certain personal needs of 20% of the basic amount of the minimum income that defines the purpose of spending these resources, currently amounting to 8,704 tolls per month, with voluntary health insurance of between 4,606 to 5,151 tolars per month being paid from this amount. This leaves them with a net allowance of about 4,101 tolars up to 3,553 tolars. This amount is then paid for by medicines and costs increase from day to day. Thus, there is not enough money left for these suppliers for the hygiene needs, for what brand, for coffee, for the handkerchiefs, which, in my opinion, is quite cruel. So, I ask the Minister: What does he intend to do about it, or does he agree that, in fact, these people, these old people, we cannot leave them in their homes without everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I will try to answer first, as far as this so-called allowance received by the residents of the homes of older citizens is concerned. Compared to 2003, a new regulation was adopted with 1.1, allowing for the amount for those with the minimum amount of funds to be increased from 10% to 20%, and as you said, this amount is 20% of the minimum income. This amount is 45 000 this year and this year this amount is 9,105, I think the total amount is this amount because it increases with the Life Cost Index every year. In fact, what is the pocket money and what is intended to be, I would say, these daily minor expenses. For this reason, the system regulation is also laid down so that each individual who resides in a home must eventually remain so. However, the second question is, of course, related to the question, what has already happened today is the issue of health contributions. I would find it difficult to answer in the end because this is a health care law, but of course I would say that the possibilities for municipal budgets to cover this part are also, of course, on the basis of individual treatment. Personally, if you have asked me, it would seem reasonable to settle this issue in such a way that at the end of the day, an individual would have as much allowance as our regulation provides for and, of course, our proposal is to regulate in health legislation the appropriate payment of this amount for voluntary health insurance. Let me once again say that, at this point, the legal basis for the municipality to be able to allocate certain exemptions to those who are required to do so in such a case. Of course, this is possible on the basis of individual treatment. So that's a short answer I can give you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Environment, Space and Energy Minister will now be asked by his colleague Tanko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! At the end of 2002, a law was passed on the construction of buildings, which is expected to bring a substantial number of order for interventions to the premises. This is partly due to faster and simpler licensing procedures, and partly due to the more efficient part of the inspection and to the high-risk penalties, both for investors and for operators. The penalties are enormous and significantly higher than in other areas. We have been informed several times through the media that an inspection of the work is effective and consistent in order to carry out removals of facilities, thereby preventing arbitrary liberal interventions into space. It's all good and it's all good. However, I have before me some enforceable decisions to remove illegally installed facilities in the municipality of Ribnica, which were issued between February and September 2000. For them, in his reply to the municipality in October 2000, the minister stated that most of them were enforceable and competent. Nothing happened and the municipality of Ribnica intervened several times in recent years, most recently in 2003. On 4.11.2003, the environmental inspectorate and the area in the response of the municipality of Ribnica wrote: "All inspection decisions in the above-mentioned cases are legal and enforceable, but unfortunately this year these facilities have not come to a narrower choice of our enforcement priorities. When next year, this is for 2004, we will draw up a list of objects that will have to be forcibly removed, within the framework of the financial resources and within the framework of Article 286 third paragraph." After three and a half years, all these facilities are still located in inappropriate locations, without documentation, inhabited and without the necessary municipal infrastructure. A few weeks ago, we were also informed that in Zbilje Gaj, the government was also involved, which is commendablely committed to the new owners of 20 apartments. At the same time, we read in the media that the Medvode municipality should join in amending the spatial acts and the investor should prepare changes to the construction documents. If they hold this information, the new owners have got the keys to the apartments - and thus the possibility of staying - for facilities that do not have a valid permit and are not even possible to obtain it because the acts and documentation are not harmonised. I wonder: Why is it not possible to discover black buildings, such as in the Ribnica, for years and years? Why is it not possible to wait for legalisation in handovers elsewhere? And: Why, in some cases, intervene quickly, effectively, without mercy? Are the procedures politically or relatedly motivated? And another question: What happens to performers in Zbiljska Gaj?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Mag. The digger will answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Look, when I took office, I inherited between 10 and 12 thousand unsolved files at the inspection. I'm not just talking about a construction inspection. It's pretty wide out there. This number of unsolved cases, of course, has been drastically reduced, especially since the adoption of the new building law. Years ago, he had virtually no execution, so no solution. From the adoption of the construction law you mentioned to this day, there have been little less than 800. 800 demolitions. This is not negligible data, for example, every Monday I get an inspection report, I have today with me, for example, last week they destroyed a holiday house in Triglav National Park, a hunting-economic facility, a business facility, the foundations of several types of houses, two shovels for agricultural machinery and one barn. These were black constructions that were destroyed last week. In doing so, I just want to say that the inspection, within the means it has, and within the human resources capacity it has at its disposal, is working as effectively as possible. I can't tell you right now. I need to ask you an inspection of why these black constructions in the pond aren't broken yet, but be sure if the decisions are enforceable, they'll fall sooner or later. As far as Zbiljski Gaj is concerned, I must say that this information is new to me, according to me, so far known data, these constructions, which were completed or completed there, were all legal. However, I do know that the Medvoda municipality has a plan to expand the area of the walls, there in the neighbourhood of Zbiljska Gaj, perhaps the information you mentioned here refers to those new lands which are not yet defined as wall-proof at this time. However, as for subcontractors, your question, I did not understand correctly, but I would certainly ask you to specify it, and we can answer it later in writing if you could not say it out of your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Would you like to complete the question, Comrade Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	See, as trivial a matter as it is, such as removing a few objects that are placed in illegal locations between settlements and in which people also reside in irregular communal conditions - I don't think there would be any particular problem. However, I am also concerned about the response of the inspection, which has been stated that there is no financial conditions necessary for the operation in order to be able to remove all these matters in the manner envisaged. It is not about human resources, but it is mainly about financial capacity. And in this case, I find it extremely questionable to have a country that, in order to carry out the tasks it has prescribed itself, these are supervisory and control tasks, does not provide resources and does, in essence, have these bodies for decoration only. And because they act selectively, they cause extraordinary revolt and anger among people. I don't think the state can do that. And it is unacceptable that in such cases, too, unnecessary delays or delays in administrative proceedings arise, mainly due to insufficient financial resources. As for Zbiljski Gaj, I have here a letter sent to the National Assembly stating that the Republic of Slovenia has filed complaints against operators, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is representing the defence, where it challenges or disputes 800 million appeals. In short, then, in this process, these operators will be the only party to be affected [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm also interested in your attitude on this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I think that, as far as the defence is concerned, it would be appropriate to refer this question to the Minister of Justice. However, in terms of efficiency and inspection, I must stress once again that our inspection focuses on how quickly it reacts when there is a new black construction. So new black buildings in Slovenia are virtually gone, because as soon as we receive the notice or the inspection receives the notice, it is easy to take action immediately. Once the buildings have been built, even when people are inhabited, it is, of course, more difficult to act. For example, we had an example in the village of Polica near Grosuplje this year, which was quite medial. Well, and in these old cases that have been in the past years, that is, before the adoption of the building law, of course, the inspection is progressing, but it cannot solve all the cases that have arisen overnight, but everyone is on the right track to be resolved sooner or later: whether the facilities will be legalized or destroyed. I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Let's move on with the questions. Next up is colleague Ivan Mamić, also colleague Mamić will ask the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. I'd like to ask you a question about our tolls. In fact, we have a strange system or system without a system, we understand also because we do not have completed motorways under the national programme a few years ago and so on. But I find it strange, like this ABC system. If you made a deposit of 8,000 tolars, you had a 10% discount, now it's changed to 15,000 and 5%, and if you want that 10%, you have to invest 50,000 tolars. Tose says the state is about exhausting the carrier's pocket as much as possible. As far as the closed and open system is concerned. We know that the closed system is the fairest, at least for the time being it is the fairest, but there are major obstacles because of the congestions, especially at the front stations, even at the side stations. But as for the open system, it's such a harmonica, so you pay for a mile from 10 to 35 Tolars. This is insufferable and unfair to me. There should be some kind of average or flattening or some other way of doing this. For example, it happens that if you drive around the Vipavska Valley, you can also pay 35 tolars per kilometer, but if you go from Vrhnika to Jarš - I've already talked about it - you pay two tolars per kilometer. This also tells us that the new toll stations that are under construction are not actually justified because you will save only one part, the rest will still be unfair, or so if you want to have a just solution, then you have to set up a toll station everywhere. When we talked years ago, the Vipavska Valley was talking about an open system, non-payment and so on and so forth, and now we are being punished by having: for the first time, just a fast road, not a highway, and we pay it at such a price. If there is another toll station, it will only cause anger in people, as it did in Dolenjska and so on. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But if we go to a new electronic system - I don't know when - then these toll stations are totally unnecessary. [[...]] My general question is: What will be the toll system for all vehicles after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, in particular with regard to the height and manner of charging for trucks - is this vignette or something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Time's up. Thanks, buddy Mamić. I ask all of you to be as precise as possible at the time that you are allowed. Please, Minister of Transport, answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Mamić. I must say that I will first answer this last concrete question, which has also been written before, what will be the tolling system for all vehicles after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. This system under preparation is referred to by the European Union as Eurovignettes. I must say that two directives are being prepared in the European Union: one is an interoperability directive on electronic toll systems in the European Union - the so-called EFC Directive - and another is a directive on charging costs for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles, which is the so-called Eurovignette or Eurovignette Directive. The first EFC Directive refers to the technical, procedural and formal compatibility of future electronic tolling systems in the European Union and is expected to be adopted by 1 May 2004. The second, so-called Eurovignettes, was prepared and intended to be adopted in the world of ministers, in the transport world on 9 March this year, about fourteen days ago, but because of many reservations made by a large number of countries, this Directive was not adopted at that time and the desire for this Directive to be adopted, nevertheless, possibly following a coordinated proposal at an extraordinary meeting of the Transport Council, which is foreseen by 1 May. I could say that the current members of the European Union want to take this matter by 1 May. In particular, I would like to point out that these Eurovignettes relate to freight transport. Here are some other uncoordinated dilemmas, such as the environmental impact of increased toll on freight cars. Furthermore, there is a dilemma which the time since the construction of the individual infrastructure can be considered as a cost of construction and in the calculation of the methodology for the calculation of tolls for freight cars. Therefore, once these two Directives have been adopted, it will be up to all Member States to transpose the adopted principles of these two Directives into relevant national legislation or national legislation. Both Directives provide for tolling for the time being under two basic technologies, in one case autonomous systems using satellite technology to determine the position of the vehicle and wireless telecommunications network for the calculation and control of payment, and another system with so-called point tolling using short-range microwave technology. At the moment, it is not yet known which of these technologies will eventually be adopted and proposed for use in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, if I order some kind of European timetable for the introduction of this single electronic toll system, the following is foreseen: by 1.7.2006 - appropriate standardisation is prepared, up to 1.1.2009 - electronic equipment as mandatory equipment for freight vehicles and buses. However, Member States and motorway operators can provide equipment and services, i.e. this service, before. In Slovenia we plan [[...]] [[End warning sign]] the pilot projects of the future toll system in 2004 and 2005, with the relevant conclusions, and this has already been discussed many times in the National Assembly on various occasions, and we have the Government's conclusions that this system will be implemented in Slovenia by 2008, including in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	My friend Mamić wants to make a supplement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Of course, Mr Minister could not answer the question concerning toll stations either. Mr Minister: Don't you think it's stupid to do this - and from whoever the directive came? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	Would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	So, as I said before, we have discussed this many times in this National Assembly, unfortunately there was a conclusion in 2005 that confused our highway system in the Republic of Slovenia and opened it on some sections, stayed closed on others, and in this way we have what we have been repeating all the time, a kind of, we could say, also to some users an unfair system. That is why, of course, short-term measures are trying to improve this system, and above all, it is important that we try as soon as possible with pilot projects and then with the actual realisation of electronic tolling and charging of actual transported kilometres, that we are trying to unify this system and that this system will also be fair enough. However, the fact is that, of course, no system is entirely fair, given that the impact of individual vehicles, in particular as regards the weight of individual vehicles, is so different from existing infrastructure that no toll is fair to this effect or the damage caused by individual users cannot be taken into account fairly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Okay. The next question will be raised by colleague Samo Bevk, Minister of Health. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Many insured persons cannot exercise their legal right to dental care on the basis of compulsory health insurance for a simple reason, because dentists both in public institutions and private individuals do not accept new insured persons, on the fact that many of them have not yet reached the average number of persons identified in dentists. According to the Slovenian average, dentists are expected to have about 2,000 patients, in my constituency, and in Idrijska and Cerkljanski they have between 1200 and 1700 defined patients. Similar situations exist in some other environments in the country. The waiting lists are long because of this and many patients have no choice but to visit self - paying offices. They do not, however, receive by contract the financial resources agreed in the dental standards for full-time work for the average number of persons identified. Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Kebra, I ask: When will the Ministry of Health and other signatories to the general agreement determine the value of dental work and financial programmes in proportion to the number and age structure of insured persons identified in a particular dentist? The signatories to the general agreement have in the past enshrined this objective in one of the general arrangements, but, as far as I know, this final agreement has not yet been reached. I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Minister of Health, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr Member, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for the question, Mr. Bevk. All concessions at the basic level of healthcare are governed by municipal or municipal administrations, but the Ministry of Health together with other partners is not without a role, as you correctly point out. The sectoral agreement that we make every year: the partners of the Ministry of Health, the Health Insurance Service as a payer and contractor, also for the dental sector, provides for how many individual citizens, citizens or, say, insured persons are obliged to have a single doctor to do so according to one concession. I quote the 2003 sectoral agreement; for dental care it is 2,346 adults and for dental care for the young for 11,96 people. What needs to be taken into account in this issue is some activities that not all - such as oral and dental diseases, especially oral - and maximal surgery - we can assess that these citizens or insured persons are even more than the numbers I mentioned. I would therefore like to say that a dentist who is recognised by the entire concession and who receives this money from the payer does not have this number of registered citizens, is in breach of the contract he has accepted with his payer. So at this level, citizens, but here it is only necessary to think that an individual citizen has only the problem of choosing his right. But I think it's at the level of the municipality that's going to figure out the state of the concessions it's granted. Let's just say we've never heard these specific comments before. Surely we too will try to make a contribution in order to make this clear. Of course, I can explain why some dentists may avoid taking enough citizens, but this does not excuse them. This is my answer: here is the role of the municipality, which should exercise control over whether the concession contract is being fulfilled, and also take appropriate action. We need to know that the municipality has a double role: first, as an institution or institution that maintains and develops all basic health care, which also preserves and develops a healthcare home, and also belongs to dental care; and that it also acts as a concession in those cases where the award of the concession improves accessibility, but not to make it worse. The award of the concession does not, of course, affect the scope of the programme, the programme remains the same, but the concessionaire must carry out at least the same activity as before or even be made more accessible. At this level, therefore, I even call on citizens to make known to their congregations and also to us the legitimate cases when they are not respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Barovic will now ask the Minister of Finance. You have the floor, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleague! - and my colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	A colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Yes, a colleague in the National Assembly and a distinguished representative of the executive branch of power - colleague, I apologize! After 11 months in 2003, almost 51 billion tolls of copyrighted fees were paid in all activities, of which 25 billion were paid in public sector activities or recalculated, i.e. 21,000 salaries in eleven months or 2,000 wages per month. Mr. Secretary of Finance, I ask you: How can some ministers and high government officials, besides their own for the Slovenian situation, be able to receive additional fees, for example, with decent salaries? In this context, let me mention two: one of the ministers who, according to our information, is expected to receive an additional 18 million tolls in addition to his salary, and one of the state secretaries in the government service, who is expected to receive an additional 10 million Slovenian tolls in addition to his regular personal income. Dear Mr. Minister: Do you not think that all these people - we mentioned only two - are among the supposed many in the service of citizens and citizens and that their work is well enough and decently paid? Are you assessing, Mr. Minister, that they are also entitled to payment for other works and for additional fees for services, honoraries, not to say, in quotations of course, "services"? Mr. Minister, I ask you: How many more of these people are there, according to the information you probably need or will get, that they receive double or even multiple amounts, while they are professional government officials, civil servants, ministers, secretaries? I also ask you in particular, on the basis of which statutory provisions ministers, state secretaries or undersecretaries are entitled to double possible triple payments to the payment of copyright fees? How do you intend to prevent these actions, Your Honor Minister? Are you going to, let me tell you this? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] sanction or sanction them? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Okay. Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I would like to say that you probably did not address the question to the right minister, because the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for salaries in the public sector, but I will answer it to the best of my ability. First, the legal basis for payments to officials. For officials, the law on Members and the law on officials do not have provisions relating to the performance of the contract work, and this law on the prevention of corruption in 19. Article 1 where it is stated in paragraph 1 that a professional official may not carry out professional or other income-generating activities on his own or in a work relationship. In the second paragraph, it allows a professional official to carry out teaching, scientific, research, artistic cultural and publicity activities, in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. So this data - I don't have this data of course - which you mentioned, probably refers to this other activity of theirs, which is legally allowed. According to our data, it is very likely that most of this is outside the immediate budget, budgetary spending. The other thing you asked is, how do we stop it? Our Ministry of Finance believes that it cannot prevent this from happening if it is in accordance with the law, but it is important to stress that ministers are responsible for the implementation of their ministry's financial plan and are also responsible for taking on responsibilities and that everyone can spend only as much as they are provided for in the financial plan. However, when preparing the budget, all budgetary users are particularly limited in terms of expenditure on goods and services, and authors' fees and contractual work fall within these categories. No ministry has so far requested the additional funds required for those payments. So I would say that probably a large majority of these additional resources, the revenue of the officials you mention, does not come from the budget itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Would you like to complete the question, colleague Barovic?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I agree with you, because you could say that this question is intended or would be good to ask the Prime Minister - I agree with you. However, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a little bit of a curved question - I'd like to ask you two more questions. First of all: How do you estimate that 24 billion tolars can be paid in public sector activities; is this in your numbers – which I know you are well placed to do – credible compared to others? Another time. The question was whether we are not all assessing together or whether we believe that government officials are underpaid and, of course, are also engaged in other activities? For the consequences of the poorly prepared laws of many amendments that we will meet this week, many extraordinary and regular meetings of working bodies are carried by Members in the National Assembly; because of the unprepared or poorly prepared laws that are being drawn up by the vast majority of the government. This means that someone who does not do his job must be good at one or the other. This is the essence of all this issue and, last but not least, a clean face between 90 fellows and colleagues, we too are subject to a certain law called the Act on Incompatibilities of Functions, we must absolutely respect it. I only allow one exception, which I think, right now, after the new marriage, is a fifth job. And that's very strict! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Mr. Minister, would you like to add something to your previous explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Perhaps only this would add to the fact that these 25 billion tolars relate primarily to, I would say, those activities that have been listed there, namely, teaching, scientific, research, artistic, cultural, publicist activities and, above all, non-functionals. This is called the work of officials - a very small part of this for sure because we know how much of this is, say, at the university, at the institutes, etc. Thus, this is a relatively small proportion, and these activities are common in the world. I was alone in the United States as a professor, I was able to participate in research projects, which were even funded by the state, mostly financed by private individuals, where I received this additional payment in addition to paying at the university. This is an additional stimulus for those who work, for example, highly qualified and are willing to pay. In order to give you a comprehensive response, we should have a detailed analysis, we do not have such analyses at the Ministry of Finance, but such analyses are likely to be carried out in the Public Sector Wage Office at the Ministry of the Interior, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Well, that was an additional explanation to the additional question of colleague Barovic. Now he has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Comrade Mag. Diaci. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The question is for Dr. Marble, Minister of Finance. Within two months, the Republic of Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union, thereby adopting new rights and new obligations. Entry into the European Union will also affect the labour market and employment. Some industries will still be under greater competitive pressure, as they have not yet been restructured for various reasons. In particular, companies from processing activities, specifically leather, textile, footwear, wood and food processing industries, will be hit. According to some information, the Ministry of Labour is expected to produce a paper on measures to help businesses reduce the impact of changes in the labour market, according to which it considers that only this year 27 000 jobs are potentially at risk.Some estimates are even higher. Based on the calculation of the Ministry of Labour published in the media, between 15 and 25 years the country will allocate 9.63 billion tolls in nine months to compensate 10,000 new unemployed people. Although the budget, the health and pension allowance, would have brought back 3.63 billion, 10,000 new state-owned budgets would have charged an additional six billion dollars. In June, the opposite country provides an additional three billion to maintain jobs, employers of 10,000 employees will receive three minimum salaries per year per employee. If they stay employed for at least a year, the budget and health and pension bills will be even richer by 6.9 billion tolars. If a country with 1.5 million tolls of subsidies per year allows employers for every small employee to work for 2,000 formerly unemployed persons, they would have reimbursed 4.14 billion dollars in contributions and taxes on their salaries to the country within three years. This calculation, in my view, is quite logical. At the same time, it should also be stressed that these sectors are mainly in areas that already have problems with job provision. For the previous country has in some ways dispersed the processing activity throughout the country — we know why. That's why I'm interested in the following: What is the position of the Ministry of Finance on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour for additional resources to help businesses reduce the impact of changes in the labour market and employment? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Comrade Master Diaci. Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you so much for asking. The issue of these endangered jobs needs to be seen more widely. As you know, last year we commissioned a specific survey of the risks of jobs and the risks they pose when they arrived in the European Union, and that survey just gave some results, which we then also took into account in the 2004 and 2005 budget. If we look at how we adopted the budget then we know that in 2003, for example, 17.8 billion tolars were realised for the so-called active employment policy. So, last year. In 2004, this year, these funds increase to 21.4 billion, i.e. by more than 20%, and then in 2005 to 22.8 billion. So, in these plans and then in the budget itself, these movements were foreseen. In addition, we did the same for a programme to promote and support economic activity, where the realization in 2003 was 8.28 billion tolars, and in 2004 we foreseen funds of 11.11 billion tolars; that is, 2.8 billion tolars more. From this point of view, there has also been a relatively gruesome debate in the strategic economic development and economic world itself, and in the view of most economists in this strategic world, the budgetary resources allocated or intended for these two sectors, which cover precisely this issue that you have asked me, are sufficiently high and that such a budget as it is appropriate and that the additional resources would not be adequate. In particular, not because, as it was intended, these funds should then be provided, additionally outside the budget, these 3 billion tolars should be created, in addition to other problems relating to budgetary rules. From this point of view, members of the Strategic Council have also specifically pointed out that the increase in public spending over the agreed budget from an economic perspective is not appropriate, but at the same time in the world, we have also concluded that if there were an increase in the level of unemployment, there would be a risk of employment, but in this case we would try to cover what is beyond what we planned within the budget. Now we have been asked to do a new analysis because we have managed to eliminate many of these risks in the previous analysis with economic measures and with this planned ERM2 policy, and then with the euro - part of those risks that have been foreseen as soon as possible - we have addressed [[reducing inflation and so on]] . Therefore, this current assessment shows that the resources provided in the budget are in principle high enough. So the resources we have in the budget are sufficient, but if necessary, we will provide within the budget by reallocation just where it would make economic sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	Good. The last question in this package, the Minister of Finance, or you have two more, is first the question of colleague Rokavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! As mentioned above, I am also referring to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. On 26 January, I have already asked both the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance a question on the issue of the resolution of the leather industry or the sale of a majority stake in the IUV, which is 50.58%, to the strategic partner. However, I have not received an additional reply from the Ministry of the Economy, as well as a reply from the Minister of Finance so far. However, I was more struck by the article I read in the Finance Journal on 24 February entitled "The customer's IUV has escaped, state aid has remained". In fact, the question is that one of the major owners in this journal has clearly wondered that someone is blocking the sale of IUV to a strategic partner. As the owner said I was quoting, he said: "As far as I know, the management has worked hard not to sell the company, as any serious owner would first dispose of such administrations," was critical. Indeed, on the basis of all that has been said, we know that there has been complete agony in this industrial entity for many years, particularly as regards workers or the existence of their jobs. A few weeks ago, we learned about a new program of forgiveness of a large number of employees in this system. In all of this, the question is seriously raised: Does the country want to sell its majority share to a strategic partner and thereby retain such important leather production in our country? And two: Does the Ministry of Finance require reports from the administration on the use of state aid resources, since it only received 400 million tolars at the end of last year? Ter In negotiations with a potential buyer, does the State condition production in both establishments, both at the Vrhnika plant and at the Šmartno plant near Lithuania? And finally, which is very important and which is also one of the great insights of the employees: But the Ministry of Finance requires members of the administration [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] consistent respect for the competitive clause? [[...]] It is said: Is it respected that members of the board would not operate with Vrhnika leather industry through their companies? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you. Minister of Finance, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you so much for asking. At its last meeting on 11.3., the Commission adopted the final text of the contract for the sale of shares, which was also operated by certain shareholders, by means of a procedure for the sale of a single stock package of 50.58% of the capital. The President of the Commission, in contact with the other shareholders, coordinated the signatures of the contracts. The current situation with regard to other shareholders is as follows: KAD and SOD approved the sale of shares on their own bodies and proposed to supplement contracts because they have the validity of contracts relating to the operation of the contract of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. But we don't know exactly about Abanka, because she probably concluded about it at her office on Tuesday and we don't have any feedback yet. Certain other shareholders, which I cannot appoint, have already signed the proposed contracts and are kept in the Ministry of Finance. The Commission's proposal was sent to the Ministry of Finance today to be transmitted to the Government by consensus under the Regulation on Sales Procedures and Other Forms of State-owned Equipment. The sale decision is valid only with the agreement of the Government, which it will give if it considers that the sale is economically justified. I would tell you so much where this sales process is now at this stage of the contract. As regards respect for a competitive clause, however, as is normally the case in such contracts, respect for a competitive clause is, of course, ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	Complete the question. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	I thank you for this part of the reply from the Minister. Maybe just for a little while. So now he's on the move, if I understand correctly, ruling with his consent? And two: In fact, in this case, did the majority share contract also provide for production in both these establishments, both in Vrhnika and in Šmartna pri Litija? And the third question: Have you actually checked with the board members to respect the competitive clause? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	With regard to where the correct operation will be ensured, the contract shall in particular specify the number of jobs to be kept and the penalty, according to the domestic statement, if jobs are not kept. These business decisions are then left to the new owner. With regard to respect for competitive clauses, if we have checked whether the competitive clauses are respected or not - I must admit to you that I cannot give you this answer right now, I will check if there have been any situations that we may not have been informed of or if we have been, as we have our representatives in the management bodies, in such cases it has also reacted. We can pass this on to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Good. Look, now on my list, I find the name of Dr. Bretz's colleague, and he's not here. I have been noted with the Secretary-General to ask my colleague Puksic instead, and he is not. Would you? Okay, because I've been looking for an explanation of why it's recorded here that someone else will be here, but then you have to ask the minister who is present. Who are you going to ask, Comrade Petan?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	As I have announced, the Minister of the Interior can respond another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Yes, now, of course, the Minister was not informed that he would now be obliged to answer the question. I just want to say that this technical situation does not affect the impression that someone is ready to answer or not. Or we can wait until we find the Minister, and I'll give you my word and then we'll go on to the Magi colleague. Oh, you little thing. Is that okay? Okay. And we'll ask ourselves where the Minister of the Interior is. Please, Comrade Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello to the Council of Ministers! Here I have a receipt from one of the pension beneficiaries of the craftsmen's fund, which is slightly above 20,000, and it is also obvious that this amount of pension is also questioned whether there will be no proper treatment by the government. What is my question? The fund of craftsmen worked until 1990 in the same way as the mandatory fund of pension and disability insurance, i.e. according to the principles of the documentary system. As a good master, then the craftsmen's fund decided to move on to the investment system. We have also taken care of this mandatory pension fund in Slovenia in order to ensure the security of pension benefits. The decision was therefore taken for the craftsmen's fund, they began to accumulate reservations, but this is certainly not enough. Therefore, the National Assembly has adopted a supplement to the pension legislation by which it has legally resolved this matter, while at the same time imposing on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the necessary resources to secure these reservations. These expectations did not come true, although the law was already adopted in 1999. And although the then finance minister, now prime minister, promised an immediate solution two years ago, this promise remained, as did many, unfulfilled. See what he said at the time: "To enable this, we agreed together with the capital fund to prepare a project of a comprehensive solution. And the government has adopted a decision proposing to the capital fund that it prepare 'due dilligance' and fully assume all the obligations of the craftsmen's fund. In short, 'due dilligance' is now under way, and once a careful review of the craftsmen's fund has been carried out, an appropriate recapitalisation of this fund will be carried out and the full and full payment of pensions will be made and guaranteed to all those insured under the reverse fund. That is why we have adopted such a decision." Now, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Have you done this careful examination in these years? Did you pay an obligation to this fund? What did the Insurance Supervisory Office find when he went on the basis of yours to also control and carried out the necessary provision of reservations? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I've already got that question, and I've already answered it, and I agree with the Mags. To the petty so that this issue could be resolved more quickly than we have so far. I'll tell you where we are right now in solving this problem, but it's relatively complicated. I thought he was better off simple than he actually is. So, you yourself have mentioned that, in fact, the government in May 2002 commissioned KAD to prepare a concept and programme for long-term provision of pension and disability insurance, which would also include a long-term solution to the business problem. But the last time I got a question like this, I said that not only do we want to pay for what the law says, but we want to completely solve the problem of SOP because what the law says could be too little for a comprehensive solution in our opinion. This included the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, while the SOP also filed an action against the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of funds belonging to insured persons in accordance with the pension law and the law on the settlement of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance. At the moment, this is the settlement of the dispute in the higher court. Since the end of last year, we have tried to speed up the matter at the Ministry of Finance and to find a solution that would constitute a long-term solution for insurers and would not at the same time impose more burden on public funds than is necessary or is the result of the legislation in force. To this end, a meeting was convened between the representatives of the SOP, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, CAD, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance on 11.11.2003, at which the basic concept was presented, namely, to minimise the rights of the insured, to preserve the name of the Fund and to actively cooperate with the guards in the supervisory authorities. On this basis, it was decided to meet with the management, the SOP, the representatives of the KAD and prepare material for the SOP Assembly on the basis of the presented concept of solutions, which will be a joint proposal for the resolution of the SOP. On the basis of this Decision, the representatives of the two institutions met but did not form a common proposal because there were too many discrepancies in the calculations. Therefore, at the Ministry of Finance, we reconvened the meeting with all stakeholders and stakeholders, the meeting was held on 15.1.2004, and conclusions were reached that the SOP would provide the insurance agency with all the necessary information to prepare the adequacy assessments as soon as possible, and the UN will do so as soon as possible. At the same time, the UN should also identify the number of deficits to be reported by individual funds and the total. On the basis of these decisions, the SOP provided the information requested by the UN and, on the basis of this, prepared an assessment, which is not yet definitive due to differences in the level of the State's obligation. At the same time, according to current data, KAD is preparing a new concept and a programme for long-term resolution of the problem of SOP with new calculations. I expect that at the Ministry of Finance we will receive the final calculations by the end of this week, which will inform both the SOP and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. On the basis of this, a principle agreement should be reached which should then be presented to the SOP Assembly, which is the representative of the SOP insurers and the only authority that can finally agree to the solution offered. The Ministry of Finance and the Government are endeavouring, of course, to draw up a joint proposal in cooperation with the SOP administration and the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce in a very short time and to present it at the first meeting of the SOP, which is expected to take place in June. This is the present situation, and in my best faith, I hope that this case will be put off the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Okay. Mag. A trifle, an additional supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	So with this answer, it's possible to think in more ways. Being in strong faith is not enough. I'm sure! For two years you had time to do this, and I asked you specifically: Was this careful examination done or not? No concrete response was given, you say the estimates are diverging. We know how to do this, but neutral institutions are invited and they do it and they don't! The country is mandatory here, it's playing with this insurance fund. It would certainly not be in the benefit of citizens, nor of the State, to bring such a fund into a risky position that provides social security for people who have paid premiums to this insurance fund. Well, that's what I'm really interested in. Have you prepared this careful examination at all? Did the insurance agency find out anything? How many reservations do you need? I wonder, how much is the country's obligation estimated to be? Would this obligation of the State meet the condition of this minimum of necessary reservations?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	I will only answer this last one, because it was probably also a direct question. As I have already said, the data have been given and the insurance control agency has not yet been fully completed, and by the end of this week they will have definitive calculations after their provision and will then be able to respond to this. If, as soon as I get this information, I can answer the question - if I understand it correctly - how much additional resources are needed; is it said, what is the deficit - according to the domestic statement, reservations - and what is the country's obligation under the law? And then I could text you as soon as I get the information in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I informed you earlier that the SDS Group of Members had expressed a desire to make a change in order. Well, we have found that these are questions that are addressed to different ministers. However, the order is set just so that there is no absence. So I would ask my colleague Petan to understand that, not him, not others with similar wishes, I cannot please him, especially because he is not the same minister. Except this time, the Minister of the Interior, when he heard this debate, came to the Chamber. If this does not mean any precedent, and if no one in the Chamber objects, I will give my colleague Petan the opportunity to ask an exceptional question. Well, that won't mean there's a precedent. Or could it be because the minister was so kind that he came to the hall. No one's objecting? Exceptionally this time, Comrade Petan - you object! Okay, then we're gonna say, here I just wanted to warn you that the minister is so kind when he heard about this debate that he came to the hall. [[...]] I thank you for your attention, colleague Petan, for your understanding, and for your mini-explanation. We continue in line, and colleague Čebulj now has the right, followed by colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. My question is to serve the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development, Minister Kovaceva. The Gorenje mayors and representatives of the Chamber of Gorenje Slovenia and the Kranj District Chamber of Commerce sent you a letter of protest through the Regional Development Agency of Gorenjeska regarding the situation of the Gorenje region in the execution of the State Development Programme and the Single Programme Document 2004/2006. In view of the fact that the response to the protest letter to this day has not been received, we estimate that such an approach by the Government, you, Madam Minister, and the government are not in place. Therefore, we expect to hear an oral response today, or I will hear an oral response and also a written response to your intentions on further obstacles - this is our assessment of Gorenjska's development. Let me say that Gorenjska, who is ranked sixth among Slovene regions after the gross domestic product per capita, will receive the same proportion of direct development incentives after the expected allocations as the most developed central Slovenian region, nine times less than the Savina region, which is a comparable region after the gross domestic product. We believe that it is imperative to immediately make an interim assessment of the situation across regions and to redirect direct incentives for Gorenjska and the allocation of the funds of the single programming documents from 2004 onwards in order to be comparable to those of the developing regions. Goreńska is in a situation where, under current legislative and political conditions, it does not provide equal opportunities for development and will continue to deteriorate economically in the long term; it will achieve even less the objectives of the regional development programme for the period 2000-2006. Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, both oral and written, which the region of Gorenje awaits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Master Kovacheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much to the Member for the question. Madam President-in-Office and, of course, all colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber! Thank you very much for this question, including the immediate answer that it is not a matter of any neglect of the region of Gorenje, and that there is no reason why our service did not respond to a real protest letter, publicly exposed in all media, but we wanted to wait for the acquisition of relevant data for 2003 which would give us the right, measurable statistical basis, to find out whether the situation of the region of Gorenje has really deteriorated as much as one indicator alone, this is also a gross domestic product for it, after it has published it, warned that it is not possible to compare this data for 1999 and this data for 2002 because it is two different methodologies, and that it will only be done in 2003 to recalculate the whole type of data according to European methodologies for back - we hope that by the end of May of this year. Only then will it be possible to determine, on the basis of the uniform methodology used, whether the situation in Gorenjska has deteriorated in terms of the social product. We know that the law on the promotion of coherent regional development requires the government to monitor developments in regional development and to report annually to the National Assembly and to use as a basis the regional development strategy of Slovenia and the criteria set out in this strategy - here we are talking mainly about the development threat index. As you know, a detailed report was prepared last year to identify and, of course, to Parliament, with the participation of the regional development agency. This report notes that immediately for the coastal and karst regions and the central Slovenian statistical region, Goreńska is ranked third after the level of development and is the index 0.224, compared to Goreska even 0.316 and the coastal and karst 0.135, which means that the situation of Gorenje in terms of the developmental hazard index has not changed significantly. As I said, we will be able to provide data on the change in gross domestic product growth by the end of May within a few months, but we are already trying to obtain from the work volumes that will soon be published, other data that will, however, shed light on whether this situation has deteriorated in any way. Let's just look at some. The registered unemployment rate has decreased from 12% in the region since 1997 to 8.3% - 2003, and the region is still in the same place as at the start of the regional development programme. After the gross domestic product per capita, I've already told you what the situation is. According to the results of the operations of the regions as economic units, the region produced 10.3% of the profits in 2000, 1.8% of the loss in 2001 and 12.3% of the profits in 2002 and no data for 2003, but will soon be available. After the gross added value, which is also the basis for income, the region had 101.1% growth and is third-placed after growth in Slovenia and on the basis of income also 102.8% growth, depending on the average, and is also third-placed. For this reason, there is virtually no basis at this time for changing the situation of the region. Just an answer - if I can, just for a second - about direct incentives. It is not true that this region has received fewer incentives. It received 333 million in 2003 from direct sources and 6.3 billion from indirect sources. For the purpose of restructuring the economy, which is a key problem in this region, as much as 19% of all funds allocated by the economy. We cannot therefore say that this region has been sub-represented in any way in national development incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Onbulj would like the Minister to complete her reply. Here you go, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Well, I'd like to get a written answer from the mountain region as well. With regard to your explanation, I would just like to inform you that this calculation in Gorenjska has also been made on the basis of statistics. Finally, you were informed about this, not just you, the government and other government ministers, but there was no clear answer. And here's what I'm asking you. In view of the specific findings that you have made and that there will be some other conclusions that are not as favourable for Gorenja: What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Well, first, one more explanation of the wrong methodology that was used when the situation in the region was addressed. The Statistics Office, as I have already pointed out, at the time when it made new assessments of the growth of the social product, it found that growth according to the 1999 methodology and growth according to the 2002 methodology is not comparable and that it will only now recalculate the whole matter according to the new methodology, and then we will actually know what the situation with regard to the growth of the social product is. As you yourself have seen, all the other indicators in the region - of course everyone would like to be better in all Slovenian regions - but we cannot say that they have deteriorated relatively in any way in relation to the other regions. What are we going to do to make things better? I think that once we have prepared a very detailed report and found out for each particular region where the key problems to be addressed have taken the first step towards making regional development even more, I will say, more individualistically colored, if I say so; it is said, in accordance with the needs of each region. On the other hand, you know that a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development has been introduced in the parliamentary debate some time ago, which, of course, I hope, will also be adopted this year. In fact, this law introduces a number of elements on the basis of which we believe and plan to lead this more coherent regional development further into partnership with economic, municipal and other partners at the level of each region. This is the key path we need to come to if we are to make the matter even more transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go. Madam Secretary, can you turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. I have an oral question for Mr Booth, Minister for Agriculture - I see that he is not here, but I will tell him anyway and ask for a written or oral answer at the next meeting. Mr Minister, because in your reply to a fellow Member, Mr Barovic, who asked you a question, you have answered more in the form of a fairy tale than a serious argument, at least in the light of the current situation of Kobilar Lipica, today I ask you to answer the next question in concrete terms, namely. Leipzig had a positive business prior to the maintenance, i.e. before the Ministry of Agriculture. Explain to me: What is the business now that we receive state grants, but it deals with more than 300 million losses? There has been no director in Lipica for over a year, which certainly affects the fact that the financial and material situation is deteriorating from day to day. On 4 July 2003, the Council of the Kobilar Lipica elected a Director, who met all the conditions described in the Official Journal. Why and for what reasons did you not consent to the appointment? Why did you require coalition coordination for the director, although this is not a political function? Why is Lipica buying Hungarian hay in Italy? Is it possible that the fees are high for certain persons? Why isn't this bought in Hungary, where it's cheaper? Actually, why don't the Lipicans eat Slovenian hay? There is more than half of Crassus and still intact. The world-renowned Lipi training school will not participate in the Athens Olympics. We all know what kind of promotion this would be for Lipica, who is today fighting with three to four guests who are coming. I'm asking you: Why won't the schools mentioned at the Olympics be there while the Lipcans were in Los Angeles in 1984? Is it possible that the main reason is that you want to leave the Austrians cobly? For certain clues suggest that the Kobile Pliberg already has a development plan for Lipica. And this, Mr. Minister, you will be able to sell the hospitality as proposed by your dear advisors, to whom you pay the services from the taxpayers' funds to you, as you replied, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in your written reply, write a wine card and eat a leaf. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja, according to your proposal, it will be mag. Franc But is obliged to give an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. He's not here? He would also like to ask the same minister the question of Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers. I will ask Mr Dimovski my question about the additional pension insurance. At the beginning of this year, insurance companies received reports on the state of their pension accounts, which their employers indicate to them part of their earnings. It appears from the comparison between the sum of monthly payments and the situation that the insured person does not receive any interest on his assets, as the costs of the insurance undertaking are higher than the guaranteed return and profit on the assets invested together. Mr Minister: Do you not think too much that the insurance company charges between 5.5% and 8.5% of each premium paid as its expenses? This means that the insurance company collects almost as much as the employer’s contribution to the compulsory pension insurance that would be charged to that amount. After reviewing the insurance conditions for various insurance companies carrying out additional pension insurance in Slovenia, we can find that when charging costs do not compete and they charge them all abnormally high costs. At the so-called retirement costs, insurance companies also charge a management fee of 1.5% of the average annual value of the fund. This is a relatively small item at the start of the insurance, and after ten, twenty years of insurance, when several million dollars are in the account, this commission will already represent a disproportionately high amount compared to the business that the insurance undertaking has with the management of that insured property. In the first years since the introduction of supplementary pension insurance, insured persons have not yet felt the high cost of ensuring the insurance companies against potential competition, which is likely to occur after entry into the European Union. At that time, most insurers will find that other insurance companies charge lower costs or give other benefits. However, in the first three years after the start of the insurance, the insured person will not be able to switch to a more favourable insurance company, and later the previous insurance company will charge him the exit costs of the entire percentage of all the assets in the account. If we put it all together, we see that the share of the earnings paid by the employer to the worker in the form of a premium, [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] collective additional pension insurance, after all, raises almost as much as the duty as if the worker got the money in the form of an increase in wages. [[...]] Mr. Minister, I ask you: What are the average costs and other deductions charged by the providers of supplementary pension insurance from premiums paid by the insurers or their employers? Why are they so tall? Do you think that's right? What are you going to do to make things better? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	This question needs to be addressed by providing that Article 318 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides that the Minister of Finance or Financially Responsible shall issue an order setting out the maximum allowed percentage of entry and exit costs and the maximum fees for the management of the Mutual Pension Fund. With this provision of this law and this order of the Ministry of Finance, the maximum amounts are fixed. On the basis of this, the Ministry of Labour, as may be said, approves pension plans by approving pension plans under this provision laid down by the Ministry of Finance. Here we can then say that, in fact, this practice has been operating in some way since 2000 or since the adoption of the law. You asked me what we were going to do or what we did to keep the costs from being so high. I must say that you have spoken in the future, but at this point I can say that we have already done so, and I can say that in the pension plans we have allowed these maximum eligible costs to be reduced by having pension planners negotiate with their clients, so to speak, negotiate for these lower costs, which has allowed competition between pension planners. Now that you have asked me, you could say that the Ministry of Labour, within its competence, has allowed operators to define all costs as the highest possible in the collective insurance pension plans, and then, as I said, they can, as I said, adapt downwards in the context of negotiations with the individual employer. I can say that the Ministry's behaviour has already yielded a result in lower costs. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make this comparison. In fact, the order I mentioned above, based on Article 315 of the Law, states that the entry costs are the highest, as you said, 6% of the premium paid, the exit costs of a maximum of 1% of the buying-in value, and the management fee of 1.5%, where the exit or entry costs can then be increased by 50% to these basic values in the first three years. However, if we take a comparison, the entry costs are precisely due to the intervention of the Ministry of Labour, by allowing, in some ways, the costs of individual competition to be reduced below 4%, meaning 2% less than permissible, or almost 33% less than the costs. At the same time, the management commission, which was determined by order of 1.5% as the maximum allowable, because of, I can say, the ministry's behaviour now falls below 1% of the actual management costs. I therefore expect that, due to competition on the market in the future, there will be downgrading, we can also talk about internationalisation of portfolios in a similar way. In this context, we can expect that, over time, these costs, both management, exit and entry costs, will in some way be coordinated in terms of the European market, more or less, in the degree to which each portfolio will be internationalised. Thus, it seems to me that the conduct we have allowed has led to competition between pension planners, but probably due to a limited market and still an increase in the number of insurers within this so-called second pillar, which is carried out through operators, not to the extent that it would allow for a balanced long-term situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Maria Anna.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. However, two insurance companies have come to me, which are additionally paying into this fund, each with their insurance company, and both are in fact the same - there is no competition. So I don't see any competition here. However, they came on the basis of the fact that you have now received the receipts this year because the insurance company is informing them how much they have. If costs are indeed reduced, if, after we arrive in the EU, the competitiveness is such that it can be chosen, however, let's say, as regards exit - if after three years, it is deducted from the total amount. [[...]] That was the problem. It was just one of the citizens or two who asked what it was like, or whether you didn't think the interest or the cost was actually pruning, literally speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, supplement the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	If I may answer that question. There is certainly a tendency we will face to reduce these entry and exit costs. And our goal was to cut costs or to allow competition between individual operators. However, it is important - in what you have asked the question - that every individual involved - you have been talking here about collective insurance, of course - know in advance what the costs are. This is said to be the exit costs and the sales commission. This is said to be the case, but here it is necessary to insist that pension planners inform potential insurance companies and those already included in the individual pension plan how and how individual costs can be reduced or reduced due to some business policy of the implementing organisation. That's why I think it's important. Otherwise, the individual will act on the terms and conditions offered by the pension plan provider. The one who will offer him better conditions - in this case, however, there has been an equalization of these exit and entry costs and administrative commissions of implementing organisations, but in individual cases, an individual will be able to participate through collective pension plans in those pension planners that will have better conditions, and this is precisely the purpose of competition.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will raise the question to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	My parliamentary question concerns the large financial affair of the Maribor bankruptcy managers. I want clarifications on the functioning of the bankruptcy Senate, the bankruptcy administrators, the duration of bankruptcy proceedings and the investigation of possible crimes, the insolvency administrators and the bankruptcy senate. During the bankruptcys of TAMA, Elektrokovina, Metal, Maribor printing and other companies, thousands of workers of the companies mentioned were lost in Maribor years ago without any cancellation. They lost their roof and their compensation, so they rightly counted at least the fines of bankruptcy. Now they've been duped another time. However, it turned out that it was the management of the bankruptcy mass for conscious money laundering, the planning of the money robbery that was intended for bankruptcy. We can even attach this to the commentators that in the event of bankruptcy management by the Maribor bankruptcy authorities, it was a matter of depriving the body at the funeral. I therefore ask the competent ministers: According to Maribor, how did the justice ministry respond to this strange conduct of bankruptcy managers? Has it ever tried to prevent these financial frauds? Do the insolvency chambers have any obligations in their role of supervisory function, what obligations do they have, who is responsible for failing to exercise a supervisory role? How is it possible that the bankruptcy senate has so poorly controlled the management of the bankruptcy mass that they will be affected by? Why are the most dedicated and always the same person among bankruptcy managers of large-scale bankruptcy? I wonder: Will the government file an indemnity action against the presidents of the bankruptcy senate that did not prevent such financial fraud? In fact, how many other bankruptcys are there in Slovenia where bankruptcy managers voluntarily borrow or launder money from bankruptcy? I ask the Ministry of the Interior: How is the investigation of the suspicion of these billions of serious crimes taking place? Why did the police not join the investigation until the press found out? Is it true that some managers have generously sponsored United List, LDS electoral campaigns and have even sponsored FORUM21 recently? Then I also raise a question about the bankruptcy procedure of the Ritoznojčan farm combination in Slovenia, which has lasted for 14 years. The bankruptcy manager is delaying the completion of the bankruptcy procedure, acting entirely on his own accord. It seems like the only goal is to take care of himself as long as possible by means of bankruptcy funds. Of course, from the bankruptcy process, the municipality, especially farmers and agriculture, suffered extensive economic damage, which would go into billions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] The bankruptcy manager does not wish to hand over completely obsolete vineyard plants to denationalising beneficiaries and others for the renewal of crops of interested farmers. In this way, the whole area will be delayed by the deadline for the renewal of the plantations before entry into the European Union, while at the same time they cannot use dedicated funds to rebuild the plantations. The bankruptcy manager shall also not transfer land to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which should have been transferred by law. Nor does it take into account the exercise of the pre-emptive rights on land that are urgently needed for public benefit - cleaning plant, cleaning plant collector, bath and cemetery arrangements and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Mr Jerovšek, the minute is almost over, because I allow the question. I think that it has been so great that, at the time available to them, the Ministers will probably find it difficult to respond in full. Mr. Jerovšek, can you turn off your microphone? I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Master Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	Madam Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to first agree on a second question or question concerning the bankruptcy of Ritoznočan in Slovenia. According to the data we have, the bankruptcy was initiated on 20 May 1993, that is indeed years ago. Since then, however, the claims of creditors have been tested continuously, and the bankruptcy Senate has always taken decisions on various issues. Thus, this procedure was not terminated, and it has been ongoing all this time, but from the very beginning many problems have arisen which have made it difficult to sell assets. First, it was a number of denationalisation requests, and then, as you mentioned in part, it was to solve land complications which, under the law on the property transformation of enterprises, had become the property of the Republic of Slovenia and should therefore actually be transferred to the agricultural land and forest fund. In these lands, which also accounted for the majority of the immovable property of the insolvency debtor, plants owned by the bankruptcy debtor were planted and leased during the proceedings. The Fund was not transferred to those lands which are treated as building plots. And in these lands, the problem was that they weren't dosed. Therefore, these lands had to be disintegrated as they resulted in a number of additional procedures that had to be completed by entering the land book. Without it, it was simply not possible to sell any such facility. The illustration, according to our data, is about 120 plots of books, along with over 1700 plots. These procedures are still partially under way, which was practically the main obstacle to the faster progress of the process, at least as far as we know. Part of the problems were the differences between the entries in the cadastral and the land book, which all needed to be harmonised. However, problems also arose in the sale of movable property, as this was often not interesting for customers. For example, some of the equipment was thought to have been technologically obsolete, and even after several attempts to sell it, there were no interested parties. The claim for the principal distribution of the bankruptcy debtor’s assets was in September 1999, and there are still some fair proceedings concerning the property. However, the majority of the assets were already sold and the bulk of the money was distributed among the creditors and the debtor's assets were again in their economic functions. According to our data, parcels that have not yet been sold are less than ten, and procedures for them are already in progress where possible. So much can be answered on the basis of the data we already have available, we can try to get more information in detail. With regard to the problems that have arisen with bankruptcy managers in Maribor, in short, this. As soon as the Ministry found out about these appearances of lending money by bankruptcy managers to venture investments, we requested a detailed report from the president of the Maribor District Court, which we expect this week. In the context of this report, of course, we expect to receive information on the amounts of the money lent and on its subsequent fate or potential to recover it. On the basis of the report, we will decide on possible necessary measures, in particular whether there is a need to propose professional supervision in relation to the work of the bankruptcy Senate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Bohinc will answer the questions raised at a time that can be complemented to complement the reply. Do you agree, Mr Jerovšek? Yes, you can. Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have ordered the police to give me a report on your questions and to summarise the following from this report. In the last two years, the Criminal Police have dealt with six suspects in individual cases, suspected as bankruptcy managers of the crime of abuse of official status or of official rights under Article 261 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. In four cases, she concluded the investigation and filed a report with the competent state prosecutor and, in two cases, a criminal complaint. At present, in the forecasting process, the criminal police in one case deal with five suspects who are suspected as bankruptcy managers of the crime of abuse of official status or of official rights, also under article 261 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. Several house investigations were carried out in March 2004 under the orders of the investigating judge, in which extensive business documentation was seized. Crime police are intensively collecting notifications, reviewing and evaluating business documentation, and the forecasting process is directed by the District Attorney from Maribor. The bankruptcy procedure of Ritoznočan in Slovenia is informed by the police and currently does not investigate any suspicion of the crime related to this company. Police for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, as well as for their duration, as you know, are not competent, but are the bankruptcy Senate, which appoints and supervises bankruptcy managers. This is the police report on your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	That's an extra question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Mr Jerovšek, if you have listened carefully to my explanation - you have asked many questions. Both ministers have the opportunity to answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	I do have the right to ask additional questions. Don't stop these affairs! Of course they're going to your client's account and you're trying to stop it. A billion money in Maribor is wasted, but there are no questions to be asked here!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	Mr Jerovšek, the only problem that has arisen has been that you have asked a question from both ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	About the same thing!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	And the basic time to answer was spent by Mr Bizjak, if you have noticed. So I asked you if you agree to complete the reply because the government has three more minutes available, Mr Bohinc is using this time. And you agreed, you nodded clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	Then I have a procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	Yes, because the answers of both ministers were very slow. Apparently they don't know the problem of bankruptcy in Maribor, where a lot of money was wasted, stole, and they don't want to give an answer. I also doubt that as long as the police ministry is in the hands of the United List, anything will move in Maribor, because the Bus case has already been stopped in a similar way when the party's frauds and also the city's municipalities were halted. For this reason, I demand that a general debate be held on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure on the responses of ministers, because this is such an important topic as to deal with money from bankruptcy in Slovenia, that the National Assembly cannot pass because we see that there is no willingness of ministries to act in accordance with its competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The proposal by Mr Jožef Jerovška will be discussed by the State Assembly at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to his question, which will be decided by the State Assembly at tomorrow's meeting in the framework of the votes. Thank you very much. The ministers without a department responsible for regional development will ask Mr Aloise Sok a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the Minister the following questions: The government has sent a new law on coherent regional development to the National Assembly, which is intended to replace the 1999 Act, which eventually proved to be extremely ineffective and has increased the developmental differences under the existing law in these years - not to decrease but to increase. Today, there is almost a difference of 1 to 2 between the most developed central region and the least developed region. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister: What criteria did the government use to propose 14 development regions for Slovenia instead of the previous 12 statistical regions? In these development regions, you have placed some municipalities under some criteria that we do not really understand - let me give you just one example. For example, you have placed the Ormož municipality in the pomurska development region, and the fact is that neither historical nor economic nor infrastructure, as well as the common institutions, the municipality of Ormož has never been associated with Pomure, but it was connected to Maribor and Ptuj. So, if you can answer me: On what criteria did you come up with such a decision that eventually caused a lot of discomfort among citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mrs. Zdenka Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much for this question, fellow Member. First of all, the answer to your claim that the development differences in Slovenia have increased since 1999, of course - not true. The report on regional development clearly shows that they have neither increased nor decreased, so they remain the same, and thus this strategy also meets one of the objectives which was precisely in that by 2006 all the necessary restructurings that our country must undertake will increase these differences despite the darkness. We also know that Slovenia is immediately, in international comparison with Sweden in second place, at the lowest level of internal diversity, the development of the regions, which is, of course, somehow understandable in terms of the smallness of Slovenia as a whole; however, far behind us are many already existing members, as well as new members, who are also at the level of the size of Slovenia. So much for the relativeity of this problem. However, as we know that the report on regional development has also, of course, revealed that we are not satisfied with everything that is currently going on, we have indeed prepared a new law. What were the criteria for the creation of so-called development regions now? As the basic functional unit for the implementation of regional policy, the draft law defines the development region. This is defined as a functional territorial unit, which is integrated into a singlely completed spatial whole by combining settlement, economic, infrastructure and natural systems. It must be large enough to provide conditions for coherent regional development within its framework in terms of the existence of a critical mass of human capital, economic operators, infrastructure. This criterion is usually linked to the existence of a regional centre or a group of major settlements sharing the functions of a regional centre and the associated rural hinterland. Finally, what is particularly important from the point of view of our law is that such a development region must also reflect the interest of people, municipalities and economies, which must be identified in this region as a region or area where development problems will be resolved together, establish common infrastructure and all that is necessary for coherent regional development. How did we get to the 14th development regions? When drafting the bill, we had to take into account the situation on the ground that was formed as a result of the implementation of the applicable law. This set out 12 statistical regions and allowed municipalities at the border to also participate in the preparation of regional development programmes in neighbouring regions. In practice, 12 regional development agencies and 12 areas of preparation of regional development programmes were created, but they were no longer fully in line with the boundaries of the statistical regions at the time of preparation. The lawmaker therefore recognised such derogations in the current version of the law as a criterion of interest and willingness of the municipalities and incorporated them, as amended, into the law. With regard to the problems we face in the lower Podravje, we are all well - known. In fact, in the only region, it was not possible to adopt either a regional development programme or to agree on who would play the role of the regional development agency because there was a permanent problem between two or three parts of the region. On the one hand, a solid development partnership of the Lower Podrav has been formed, which has prepared its regional development programme and, on the other hand, such a regional development programme has also been prepared for the Upper Podravje. Ormož municipality had a special position from this point of view because it has always insisted that it does not want to enter the partnership of the Lower Podravje, but wants to participate or at the level of the entire statistical region, and in the event of the creation of two development regions, it wants to join the Pomeranian development region, and of course in such a way as to form a development union of the Preleški municipalities or municipalities in three administrative units: Gornja Radgona, Ljutomer and Ormož, as a development alliance that will then include the development region of Pomurje. As you know, in recent days such a decision has been confirmed by either: or 12 statistical regions, but if this is not feasible and we go to 14 development regions, then the municipal council in Ormož also goes to the Pomur region.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Would you like the secretary to complete her answer? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Of course it doesn't. The municipal council of Ormož did not confirm this. You say: the will of the municipalities - I don't know, the will of the municipalities should probably be what its citizens want, but not what its citizen might want, if you honestly think that people in some development region together should be able to realize their economic, infrastructure, cultural, institutional and other common problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Well, I certainly want to answer again. The bill was sent to all the municipalities in comments and all the municipalities can also express their will by means of legal documents and, if I were to see a decision in Ormož today that speaks in a different direction, it is concluded that Ormož belongs to the region of Lower Podravje, then we will also take this into account.dD parliamentary debate, which will take place in May, we know that there is still time in Ormož municipality to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Petan gave up the question. There's no Mr. Bernick. Mr Tsukjat was on the agenda for the question to be asked by the Minister of Health. Isn't Mr. Tsukati here? The Minister of Economy, who is justifiably absent, will ask Mrs Majda Zupan a question and please indicate whether you want a written answer or an oral one at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Respectable. Although the Minister is not present, I would like to ask the question in writing. March 15th, World Day of Consumer Rights was a perfect opportunity to check our consumer situation. With the situation in Slovenia, we certainly cannot be satisfied because there are different affairs from SIB banks, Orion, Zbiljski Gaj, problems with transaction accounts at the Ljubljana Bank, robberies with ATMs, problems with tourist agencies that actually advertise each other, with residential managers, real estate intermediaries, laymen and all sorts of other traders, all these affairs have shown a great vulnerability and a strong underestimation of the consumer's role. This is not to be ignored by the findings of the inspectors of the last days in the review of companies advertising in the field of money lending, where 22 infringements of consumer protection have occurred. The market does not only operate on the basis of market legality and suppliers have increasing knowledge and, on the other hand, consumers remain inadequately protected from fraud and fraud. We are angry at the situation in the area of consumer protection, over the incapacity of the government office, which was a real war with the consumer association years ago, which let us acknowledge that it has done the most for the consumer so far. By entering the European Union, the Slovenian market will become part of the new 270 million internal market, with the Slovenian consumer exposed to new trials. I therefore ask the Minister of Economy: do we have a sufficiently adapted legislation and an appropriate government consumer protection policy in Slovenia in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, would you like the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting? That's your suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	A written answer, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Written answer, you're satisfied. Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. In 1996, in Slovenia, the affair about the attempted bribery of Member Paul Rupar in the formation of the then coalition in the National Assembly was marked by the lack of a 46th vote for Liberal Democracy. She got it later. During the course of the bribery attempt, a tape was recorded which was later handed over to criminals and, according to them, was to be checked in Belgium, as reported by the Slovenian media. Since then, no one has talked about the tape since then, nor has the analysis been published, nor has there ever been a discussion of the possible launch of the procedure. Since it has been seven years since then, I ask the Minister, Mr Bohintz, the following: What were the findings of the analysis of the tapes? When and where was the tape sent? When did you receive the results of the analysis, and where were they forwarded, and who dealt with them? What was the report of the Cranian crime scene? When and to whom was it transmitted? Did the prosecution cooperate? What happened to alleged briber Igor Simencemiz of Liberal Democracy? Is it true that the secretary is on the railways where he is responsible for the sale of the property? What measures will be taken to close as quickly as possible the seven years of the ongoing police and prosecution proceedings? What did the Attorney General do about it? Will complaints be filed against whom and when? I also ask: Will anything come a day after seven years? It would be fair and fair for the Slovenian public to also receive final information on this story. So far, unfortunately, she hasn't received any answers about all the affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Member, on the basis of your question, I have asked the police for a report and the answers I can give are those coming from the police report. Some other of your questions, where you are examining what the prosecution has done in this regard, will need to address the competent authorities for this. The police say: "On 9.1.1997, the then criminalist service from the media was informed of the alleged bribery of the said MP, the mayor of the market. On 17.1.1997, a written report was sent to the District Attorney's Office under the number 22-S-24/B-5/97, requesting the State Prosecutor's Office to examine the case and, pursuant to Article 45 of the Criminal Procedure Act, to provide appropriate guidance." In short, the State's Attorney's Office was contacted as early as January 1997. By 17.1.1997, criminals had sought the necessary information from all involved under Article 148, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Procedure Act. On 21.1.1997, a supplementary report was sent to the District Attorney's Office under the number 22-S-24/B-5/1/97, accompanied by a copy of the contents of this cassette in the Slovenian language. That answers your question as to where this tape is now. On your question, what were the findings of the tape analysis, and the following? Criminalists officially obtained the controversial audio tape on 17.1.1997 from the parliamentary group of the current Social Democratic Party. The controversial audio tape wasn't sent abroad. On your explicit question, if it was sent to a foreign laboratory, the police claim that it was not sent anywhere abroad, because there were no forensic or phonetic reasons or such necessary investigations. The cassette, together with the copy, was withdrawn by a report from the District Attorney's Office in Kranj. What happened to the alleged briber, you ask. In this regard, the police respond that two reports under the above name or related name have been submitted to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Kranj. And this. According to information provided by the police, the State Prosecutor’s Office has assessed, on the basis of the notifications collected, that there is no basis for an official prosecution. However, this is a question to be answered by the State Prosecutor's Office, and the police can provide an answer regarding the course of the investigation process, which, as you have heard, was concluded in 1997.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič has the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, what they have prepared for you at the police station and what you have answered in response to this question in part, as you yourself have already mentioned, is actually a report on how things went wrong under the carpet. The prosecution would certainly have to be carried out in this case, as there has been so-called state, party and political corruption. Given that the Minister of Justice is also present in the Chamber, I would ask, if it is possible to obtain further answers to this question from the Ministry of Justice, of course not today, but in writing if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. If Minister Bohinc wants a word, I'll give it to him. However, for what you stated in the end, I would ask you to ask the Minister of Justice in writing, as you have done for the Minister of the Interior and the answer will certainly be to this question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	I just want to protest the fact that the police had anything to do with any disturbance under the carpet. The police did their job well, properly, in 1997. With regard to the other procedures, please contact the competent authorities for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerovšek, calm down, procedural proposal, Mr Pukšič, please. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Firstly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that a public debate be held in response to the Minister's response to the State Assembly, a general debate. Secondly, Madam President, I inform you that, as you have done today in this session, you have not acted in the conduct of the 32nd meeting, which is in December, which Mrs Secretary-General may know and, of course, the rules are changing here, which is not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. You could tell me this in my ear as you did the question before, Mr Pulšič, but I think we have acted at all the meetings on this issue quite similarly and in a uniform manner. On the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide at the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I now give the floor to Mr Paul Rupar's question, which he will put to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you. Madam President, ladies ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, in the financial field of municipalities, we are slowly experiencing a step by step a greater plunge into the financial problems that the municipalities feel. This is mainly due to the terrible irresponsibility of the government, which is not able to take care of the projects that it then puts on its shoulders and in the implementation of the municipalities. I'm talking about a missing nine-year-old who ordered the municipalities to build schools to a large extent their burden. I am talking about kindergartens that have started to collapse precisely in our area and it is spreading like a plague across Slovenia also elsewhere due to the overcrowding of municipal budgets. I am talking about social issues, which are largely the problem of municipalities, homes for the elderly, the utilities, infrastructure, which is a terrible thing to do in municipal budgets, that I am not talking about other things at all. Mostly in Slovenia, appropriate consumption is barely sufficient for these obligations. The Law on Local Self-Government, in fact, on the financing of municipalities, makes it clear that everything that the State passes on to the congregations by the government of this national assembly or by any means on its shoulders or in the implementation of the municipalities must also provide adequate funding by law. Of course, that doesn't happen. The municipalities are really in big trouble. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Finance what we have already asked his predecessors, Mr Gaspari, Mr Rope, and other institutions: When will the Ministry of Finance finally propose amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities and ensure that the financial functioning of most Slovenian municipalities is as smooth as possible? Let me mention that this law that is now in force is a funeral. It means that the municipalities are inequitablely financed, for example in Ljubljana, exceeding the appropriate consumption on average even 80%, where when the income change or the share belonging to the municipality is 30 to 35%, this meant 5,000 tolors per person, or the area or periphery you are neglecting is 500 tolars, which is ten times less for Ljubljana. By reason of the normal nature of the obligations [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in other places or regions completely different, i.e. bigger than in Ljubljana, where there are several other institutions that also care for other parts. [[...]] I can repeat the question: When will the law on the financing of municipalities finally be amended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This debate was also opened at the time of the adoption of ZIPRA. If you remember, we had a very long debate on how to determine the amount for appropriate consumption per capita. At that time, the Ministry of Finance committed itself, and I personally committed myself to doing an analysis first, which will show exactly what the problems in this area are. In this regard, I also announced at that time that the amendment of the law would not be sufficient to simply require the drafting of a new law, since probably certain starting points of this law are problematic. In addition, I have mentioned several times that I believe that such a law should have an added motivational factor for the municipalities to develop an economy in their field, which is not true now, because the congregation that is under appropriate consumption does not have any particular motive for developing the economy, because it will have only a slightly smaller additional resource from the country. So there's a new law to be drawn up here. History has shown that the draft new law has already been prepared, the Ministry of Finance has prepared it, then a debate has started on it, and because of the unanimity of individual parties' views on individual solutions to the financing of municipalities, the work on this law has stopped. The Ministry is now preparing an analysis of the funding of municipalities between 1999 and 2003, because in 2003, as far as I understand the individual debaters, these problems have become even more acute. We also need to see a trend in what has been happening, indicating possible solutions to open dilemmas in the preparation of a new law. This analysis is also to be considered by the National Assembly. We will prepare this analysis and present it to the National Assembly. I know that there will be very great problems in marriage itself, because, of course, the interests of the congregations are very different, many of them, which in this law have a surplus over the right consumption, the smaller ones that are under it. We believe that such a debate is important and then we will propose a law. I have committed myself to this and on my part everything will be done to bring this law to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar wants [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Mr Minister, I thank you very much for this answer and I am very pleased with it. Finally, I think it is necessary to commend your ministry's thinking in this direction. All I want to know is, when can municipalities expect to hear or propose in the National Assembly regarding the new Law on Community Financing, and if there is any idea already, how far will it go towards decentralisation or even consumption in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're doing the analysis, and I'm counting on it to be completed within one month. At that time, we would also present it to Parliament. However, I fear that this will be April, when there will be many extraordinary meetings. Thus, we are counting on May and we are already preparing a starting point for a new law, which I think will also require a broader debate. However, this could be presented in June or September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the question of the question of the matter, although she will ask the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food that there is not enough solution in relation to forced law. Farmers from northern Slovenia must also take animals that are in need of forced slaughter more than ten kilometres away from the first such slaughterhouse. In the previous century, 50, 60 years of such services were received in Murska Sobota, and today they have to take livestock to Ptuj or Radgono or elsewhere. Please count the miles from Hodgoš to Ptuj. This is not ethical and humane to animals, but in addition to the fact that this is very late, it is also a huge cost. It is not true that today, when technology is so developed, this matter cannot be solved in any other way. I ask the Minister for an answer when he will do something about solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Poxon. Would you like a written answer to the next meeting or oral one? Mouth. Thank you very much. The oral answer will be given by the minister at the next meeting. Mr Marko Diaci will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. In fact, my question on the matter will be linked to the question that I raised earlier to the Minister of Finance, because both of them are somehow connected. The Ministry of Labour is expected to produce a document on measures to help businesses reduce the impact of changes in the labour market and employment. I am therefore interested in the following: Will and when will you submit the document we have learned from the media to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia: In your opinion, what will be the consequences of the possible non-acceptance of the employment proposal and the changed environment in the labour market after entry into the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	Perhaps the Minister of Finance has already answered most of what you asked in the second part. I could also say that the basic starting point for employment policies is the so-called 2004 National Action Programme. This was adopted in November 2003 and envisaged in fact the consequences of the entry into the European Union. The majority of these instruments, with assessments and also with measures that are valued, are derived from this national action programme. I have already said several times that this national action programme is linked to the European Employment Strategy, so that we have for the first time, for the first time, a European coordinated national action programme. That seems important to me in the introduction. There are certain segments of this programme aimed at what exactly you are asking how and how individual actions will be implemented. Let me also say that, years ago, in 2001, we adopted a so-called strategy or national labour market development programme by 2006 and that the objectives that we have written there are more or less being achieved. Of course, in the last two years, especially after 2001, we have witnessed a slowdown in economic growth, which has been planned and expected, which, of course, also affects some way of opening new jobs. In short, the dynamics we are witnessing in economic activities are also mirrored by the opening up of new jobs, despite the fact that, according to some data, we have a relatively high level of investment or at least comparable level with the countries of the European Union. That's the first one. On the other hand, I believe that the assessment he made was that of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, which is under the responsibility of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, which was primarily devoted to the debate in the strategic world, which was assessing certain moments. I could say that there was a question of how someone assesses certain risks in the future. I think the Minister has already said that the Ministry has already issued or proposed a reassessment of the risks that will arise. However, we have, I think, reached an agreement that, in the event that the resources that will be needed primarily to maintain jobs, or in some way can be created or redistributed within the budget or we will find another solution in individual cases. The assessment is that, with certain corrections, we can, of course, implement the programme that we have set ourselves, that is, this national action programme. Of course, it is necessary to see very much how economic activity will move in some of our export markets, to which we are most connected. It seems to me that this is the key issue that all economists are following, how the dynamics will be in individual export markets. I think that for this document that was prepared for the Strategic Council, you can, in my opinion, contact the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and I think there will be no obstacles to obtaining this material. However, as far as the national action programme is concerned, it is, of course, accessible on the websites and, of course, we can also forward it in writing. It was also consistent with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you, for your word. I've tracked this calculation of your ministry to the media. He seemed pretty logical and normal. Then somehow I realized that the minister in the same government that you are sitting in doesn't agree with your views. And this was a key question for me, because I also expect certain negative consequences from the past non-restructuring of certain industries, which, of course, are mainly concentrated in the rural area of our country. This will present a concrete problem, for example, in the food processing industry. I personally expect a lot of problems. However, this food processing industry is dispersed throughout the country and in particular in those places that do not already provide no jobs. This initiative of yours has been quite logical to me personally. Obviously, now I understand from your response that you have somehow agreed that, within the options available, you will be redistributed, these assessments, if they are correct and will prove to be, in some way also arranged by reallocation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you for the support I'm very grateful for. It is clear, however, that, as Minister of Labour, I will, of course, fight for as many jobs as possible or as many jobs as possible, or as new jobs. Of course, employment policy is linked, not to a naked so-called narrow definition of employment policy, but to a whole range of other policies, from the tax system to incentives for economic development, the development of the banking and financial sector and so on. In short, there is a whole range of others and there is essentially a level of unemployment in some way, as I have said many times before, a residue of what is happening in most policies. I must say that there is also one instrument in that document that, in my opinion, may also have a positive impact on job retention and, on the one hand, the possibility of increasing new jobs, which is, of course, a tax on the payroll, where the lower threshold increases. We are counting on some positive developments to come from this address as well. Sooner or later, however, the issue of the struggle to preserve jobs, the opening of new jobs, of course, is our constant, for which we must, of course, fight even after joining the European Union. I've told you many times - nothing will be given by itself. We're going to have to deal with everything in some way. Of course, I have also said this several times, the issue of job loss in the food and manufacturing industry concerns me. In part also due to lost time in non-adaptation or non-structure of individual segments, which are partly objectively linked, also subjectively, as regards individual decisions. In any event, I would like to say here that the orientation that we have set up for Slovenia with this national action programme and, of course, with other strategic documents that will still be important when we join the European Union and also after we join the European Union. Once again, very or most importantly, as far as jobs are concerned, relatively high economic growth. I do not think there is a difference in understanding between economists, but any school is required, as much as possible, for economic growth, of course, especially for a smaller economy or a small economy, such as in the European or global conditions of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavac is gone, and Bernick is not. Mr. Minister of Justice, I thank you, but Dr. Bernick is not. Alojz Sok will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	Mr President, fellow Members and distinguished ministers. I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, and I'm going to ask him: How is it possible that the investor, VIPOS, who was the builder of the BS3 neighbourhood, sold the land where housing blocks have been for 25 years, twice as reported by the media, first to the residents of the neighbourhood and then to Bojan Gjuri, who then also submitted a proposal for entry into the land book, which is said to have not yet occurred? I ask you how it was possible for the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia to exhibit Ljubljana-Bežigrad, which in autumn 2002 measured SIT 700,000 on real estate sales, not to suspect this sale. For nearly 17,000 square metres of built - up buildings were sold for 35 million tolars. For if the tax administration, as some taxpayers, especially small businesses and craftsmen, had suspected of this transaction, at this price, could quickly find out with their valueholders what the actual situation was. However, since this has not happened, I believe that there has also been a major complication now brought about by the tenants of this neighbourhood of BS-3. It's probably not a pure question for you, but because the tax administration that belongs to your ministry was involved, so I'm also addressing this question to you, and I'm asking you: How will the government or the competent ministry solve the problem? During what time can the tenants who have purchased these apartments and land once expect that the plot will, of course, be solved for their benefit? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. With regard to this issue, it is possible, first and foremost, to see how the tax obligation arises. This tax liability arises when a contract for the transfer of property is signed by all the parties, irrespective of the agreement on the manner and time limits for the payment of the purchase and the other contractual arrangements. The debtor must attach to the forecast a contract on the basis of which the property is transferred and a proof of ownership, a land register or an original or certified deed of acquisition of the property. When reviewing ownership evidence, the tax authority shall only verify ownership and not any possible real estate burdens. Under the jurisdiction of the tax authority, the tax assessment shall be carried out in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the law. The tax authority shall not be competent to determine the possible consequences of non-compliance with the contractual arrangements for the parties or to alert the parties to any possible consequences of the contracts they have concluded. Accordingly, in cases where the conditions for issuing a decision are met, it is the duty of the tax authority to assess the real estate tax. The tax authority may refuse a tax on real estate when it finds that there are no conditions for the imposition of a metering procedure, since a legal transaction which is not lawful under law is the subject of a dose. For example, a buyer who has acquired an apartment under a housing law must not sell the apartment or dispose of any other legal business between the living before the final payment of the contract price of the apartment. With regard to the issue of land sales in the neighbourhood of BS-3, or the issues raised in this case, we stress that the evaluation of the behaviour of parties in contractual relations in which parties enter freely is in the domain of bond law. The Tax Procedure Act and also the Real Estate Tax Act do not provide for the obligation of the tax authority to protect the rights of parties in contractual relations. From this point of view, the issue of tax administration could be raised, perhaps a more appropriate question in terms of bond relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much for that answer. If so, Mr Minister, what seemed to the public in some way the most controversial. We know that in these legal transactions, real estate is valued if the tax authority suspects the real price that it can make, propose or execute its own valuation. Whether the price of SIT 35 million for 17,000 square metres of built-up buildings in Ljubljana is appropriate, or whether you do not think that the tax authority should actually, if I say so in quotations, "suspect" that the price is so low that the tax on real estate in this case was significantly lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. How did this actually happen, what was the basis, what were the other factors that affected the fact that this price, which was also on the contract, was accepted as the basis for the calculation of the tax, is at this moment difficult for me to respond to. At first glance, it does seem small and I agree with you here. However, other circumstances may have been considered to be quite appropriate. And if you want, we can give it to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much. And also the last question put by Mr Janez Drobnič to the Minister for the Information Society. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u183	The question is short and concise: When will you call for free radio and television frequencies, and why do some broadcast on frequencies that have not yet been broadcast? Mr. Minister, I'd like to give you another explanation. On March 2, 1993, an article in the Primorski News - I will not name it - personally acquires Bianca, in beautiful eyes the frequency of 90.3 megahertz. Tuesday, March 9th, Primorska novice, the Republic Telecommunications Administration shuts down Radio Nova. 29 March 1993 Radio Mega submitted to accuracy the full role of the Republic Telecommunications Administration - that is to say the full role, that is clear from this. This investor shall never acquire a temporary or permanent frequency in order to be able to broadcast. Then the years pass, on 16.1.1998, the frequency of 973 megahertz shall be determined. 25.2.2003 Obala.net, silenced two radio stations, frequency 97.3. Who broadcast it even though it was never signed? 4.4.2003 invitation to tender for a free broadcasting channel of 97,3 megahertz. On 9 September 2003 Radio Val first published 97.3 megahertz as its frequency. This is how radio frequencies are shared. Apparently they share "under the table", they share through the Institute of Temporary Frequency, where some of these frequencies are possessed. We also discussed this on the petitions commission, where the issue of surrender to 95.5 megahertz was raised. I was on my own in Primorska, which is the frequency that is not heard here, and I was able to listen very little to the broadcast, not to the temporary signal that any way would pair with the intrusive Italian stations, but to the broadcast. Mr. Minister, what are you going to do to keep such things from happening? Apparently, there is a wild west in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Petty Officer, thank you for the question. In this area, there was a wild west in the past. Part of this wild west is also being paid today in the form of not fully regulated and transparent frequencies for sound and also for television broadcasters, especially for sound broadcasting radio stations. As regards the method of tendering for free broadcasting frequencies, it shall be implemented under the Telecommunications Act and carried out by the Telecommunications, Broadcasting and Mail Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2002, the Agency published an invitation to tender for 45 such frequencies, and in 2003 for 15 free broadcasting frequencies and issued decisions for the first tenders, this is already concluded, and for the last call I mentioned, the final stage of the decision-making process. Since you asked when the agency will give a new call, let me inform you that the Agency has prepared for the next call for 28 broadcasting frequencies for television diffuse radio stations and 17 broadcasting frequencies for signal diffuse radio stations. The list of these frequencies shall be confirmed by the Broadcasting Council at its 25th session on 26.3.2004, in a few days' time. Following the preparation of the entire call for proposals prepared by the Agency, the Broadcasting Council will give its consent to the decision to open a call for tender at its next meeting, which is expected to take place in mid-April 2004. The invitation to tender will therefore be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in the second half of April 2004. There are more reasons why radio and television transmitters are broadcast on some free frequencies. Most often it is a test of the directional characteristics of the extension of electromagnetic wave and the coverage areas of radio and television stations. In such cases, where the Agency issues, at the request of the applicant, a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies for testing and measurement, which is time-limited, the applicant may carry out measurements and tests at the time and under the conditions laid down in the decision. In fact, some broadcasters occasionally broadcast without a valid frequency allocation decision. In such cases, of course, there are violations of the Telecommunications Act. Where the broadcasting sector at the Agency finds this, it shall require suspension and penalise cases of unauthorised broadcasting either within the scope of the scope of its own competence or within the framework of the Ministry of Information Society’s inspectorate. Of course, I cannot tell you about the specific frequencies that you gave in the explanatory statement, I can only say that, if this is a 95.5. frequency, a certain radio was operating on this frequency with a valid test and measurement decision that expired in the second half of February 2004. Radio Capris, according to our current behavior, in accordance with administrative supervision and by the agency, has stopped broadcasting at this frequency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u187	You are probably aware that there have also been two investors in this frequency allocation process who, of course, feel damaged and left unwarranted. I mentioned one earlier, and the other is Radio Fireplace. They met the conditions and did not issue themselves to them in those areas where, of course, they ran to be able to play. What are you going to do to make this mistake go away? Another additional question is: The audience is probably also aware that Italian radio shows are disrupting some of our frequencies. How do you coordinate this, how do you plan to coordinate with the Italian frequency market or with the competent national authorities?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u189	To start from the end, how we coordinate frequency coordination with the Italians. It's hard. Some local communities or regional communities in the Italian region have the opportunity to assign frequencies themselves, so of course it is not to say the kakat situation in certain areas, but we are coordinating because the agency has refused to agree on Italy's frequency plan, mainly south of Rome, so we are demanding agreement and harmonisation in this area. But there are still many problems. The final result, or final solution, will be the digitisation of radio broadcasting, the transition to a digital radio that will essentially release the frequency of natural goods. Only then, within five, four years or more can we expect this to be no longer such a pressing problem. From the point of view mentioned, the temporary broadcasting of certain radio stations is experimental broadcasting, to be understood, at certain frequencies it makes sense not to remain unused and could be occupied. As for the first part of your supplementary question, I can only tell you that I do not know what time period this invitation to tender or alleged injustice refers to. With regard to the period covered by the Telecommunications Act and the Agency's calls, I must say that these Agency's calls are correct, transparent and that the Agency is primarily carrying out technical tasks. The content aspects of the allocation of frequencies as regards the radio programme are, of course, carried out by the broadcasting world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u191	Just enough to remind you. In the text or in my presentation it was 1993. So much to explain to you when you said you didn't know what year it was. In 1993, that was the case, and in my presentation of the question, I said so. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a general discussion on the allocations of these frequencies in Slovenia or on this question of the Member States which I have presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u193	The Minister's reply is to hold a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u194	Mr Drobnic's proposal that the State Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Information Society to his question, the State Assembly will decide at tomorrow's meeting in the framework of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, I thank the ministers, ministers and, of course, the Prime Minister for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much again and good night. We also broke the agenda because we will vote tomorrow.
