ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u1	I will begin the 40th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I have invoked it pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, allow me to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Battelli, Cimperman, Grošelj, Horvat, Jelinčič, Kacin, Merlo, Partljič and Peterle, and after 3:30 a.m. by a colleague of Silva Montenegro. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. And even though they're not with us right now, I welcome them as well as everyone else. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 40th extraordinary meeting. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda, so we will move on to the agenda. Please, Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u2	The Honorable President. I would have a procedural proposal, which I say is not related to the agenda before the agenda is adopted. Do you allow me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Please. If it's not about the agenda, it's hard to give you a word like you said. What's going on? Very quickly. Then we will assess whether you have the right to proceed or not. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Last Thursday, Ivan Starina died in the village of Dobovec, where he was fatally wounded in 1991. He's been immobile for 12 years and he's had a hard time living. He was the bearer of the highest national decoration of the sign of freedom. Unfortunately, at his funeral there was no state or state representative. That's why I think it would be right and nice for this national council to bow down to the memory of the dead because of only the consequences of the war.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u5	I'm sure we all feel sorry for the family. However, I would like to remind you that the possibility of such a proposal, which is otherwise not in accordance with the protocol rules currently adopted, at the college, could have been consulted differently, as we have always been on such issues. I cannot put your proposal to the vote in this sense, with all due respect for the family, which, once again, I say, we feel sorry for. We are now voting on the agenda. Does anyone else want a word before making a decision? Please take a look at the voting devices in front of you, see if they're all right, so there won't be any complications in the voting. If all is well, I will put the draft agenda to the vote. We're voting. Sorry, there's nothing wrong with the voting device of Comrade Petan. I'm calling off the vote. Now it is, okay. Once again, no one will interrupt me again in the middle of the vote. Please check the voting devices. I don't see a raised hand to warn me anything's wrong. We are voting on the draft agenda. 63 present, 57 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the defence motion for a decision amending the decision on the schedule of the subsequent legislative referendum on the implementing law 8. Points of decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decree amending the decree was submitted to the assembly by the Members of his colleagues, Mr Anderlič, Mr Potč and Mr Kebrich. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the home working body of the National Assembly. I ask Mr Kremjar if he wishes to present the supplementary report that we have received on the bench. You want a word? Rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee, Comrade Kremjar. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u6	President, it'll be shorter. The Committee unanimously endorsed the proposal, as it had been approved and proposed to be admitted to the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Does the Minister of the Interior want a word, Dr. Bohinc? [[No, no, ……]] Then, colleagues and colleagues, we will first hear the views of the parliamentary groups. Comrade Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Kebric.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 2 February 2004, the majority of the Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats voted against the proposal to sign a subsequent legislative referendum on the so-called technical law on 28 March 2004. It did so in order to ensure that the so-called system law is decided at least in the second reading at the same meeting of the National Assembly. So that this dead race and knowledge of the issue of the deleted ones will be removed from the agenda and will also deal with other issues that are far more important to people. The debates of the so-called system law pointed to the opposition's tactics of stalling the work. Since there was no willingness to conclude the debate on the system law, voting against the decision on the referendum was the only way, so we assessed that the decision of the same meeting would ensure the adoption of the so-called system law. That's what happened. The decision of the majority of the Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the same was the case with the LDS, was very much problematic at the meeting itself and later in public. There was even talk of the constitutional coup, the usurpation of power, the end of the rule of law and the like. Even inaccurate facts and arguments were used in this regard. Not for the first time. Not to mention how she has duly applied such bombardment assessments by parties calling for the lack of respect for the Constitutional Court, the rule of law and the constitutional order, and only to require constitutional law to ensure that decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken and that human rights violations also take place. Or to be talked about by legal professionals who change their views and adapt their current political interests and definitions. So let me make a point. Article 90 of the Constitution, to which critics referred, does not have a deadline. The period of 8 days laid down in Article 22 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is not a time limit and its exceedance does not mean that the National Assembly is bound by this obligation, as the Constitutional Court has also found. The National Assembly had already decided on the adoption of a decision on the referendum invitation to tender after an eight-day deadline, and there had been no dramatisation. Finally, no eight-day deadline was recorded in the decision of the Constitutional Court imposing this on the National Council for the establishment of new deadlines for the referendum. All of this was falsely claimed. So the whole dramatization of this act was completely superfluous. All who have abused this act are not aware of the actual decision-making procedures and potential for an event or conduct, but are not prepared or able to see the whole. Above all, they do not know today that the issue of deleted is a matter for any game, for any more or less skilled manipulation of procedures and questions, but for whether the Republic of Slovenia will also be able and ready to recognise the human rights of this small group of people in Slovenia, including by fulfilling the promises made to them at the time of independence, and to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has indisputably found that the State of Slovenia has wronged these concrete people. These are people who have already lived in Slovenia, many long years, many have also been born here, had a permanent residence and also the right to vote on plebiscite. While we are convinced in the United List of Social Democrats that the regulation of the referendum in our constitution and in particular in our legislation is inappropriate, a wide range of issues that can be decided at the referendum is wide and without any restrictions. The referendum can be convened at any time, virtually without restrictions, i.e. many times a year, even on similar issues as is the case this time. There is no majority of the referendum and only a few participants can decide on the validity of the referendum. In particular, the previous legislative referendum is a form that directly complicates the organised and programmed functioning of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is not surprising that the majority of citizens and citizens are also insecure and largely indisposed to the referendums. Regardless of their negative assessment of how to solve the problem deleted. The latest survey by Dnevnik also shows that it supports the referendum on deleted only 25.5% of the respondents, while 71.3 opposes them because they question the appropriateness of this institute for such issues. It is no wonder, therefore, that many citizens and citizens have asked me in these days why we allow referendums in the National Assembly on the issues which may lead to decisions that violate human rights. Therefore, they do not know that we are not all guilty of the same situation in the national assembly. They do not know that under the coalition contract, the government first tried to supplement and amend the law in force, but the coalition Slovenian People's Party opposed it. Now that we have been negotiating possible minimum amendments to the constitution on the referendum for two years now, the final decision on these issues is always moving away. Therefore, it would be right to say who is to blame for such a situation. Above all, the opposition wants to preserve the situation in which rational decision-making and referendums are constantly being made more difficult and repeated; it also does not allow us to form referendums in a European way. Finally, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats is still convinced today that the referendum that we are going to decide on today should not decide on the content of the so-called technical law, as this actually means deciding on human rights and the rights of minorities and deciding whether or not to respect a Constitutional Court decision. Both are unacceptable in democratic countries, as Mr Gil-Robles, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, made clear in his last interview for Work. But it is only for the opposition to respect human rights and the Constitution when it is in its interest to find all possible excuses to circumvent this obligation. That's the way it is this time. We all know that decisions on the right to permanent residence will have to be issued to the affected irrespective of the outcome of the referendum, as such an obligation comes directly from several decisions of the Constitutional Court. We all know that the rights of minorities are not decided at the referendum, as most of them are reluctant to be recognised. We all know that each of the deleted, if only sufficiently persistent, will be able to exercise his right before the domestic courts, if that is not the case, and before the European Court of Human Rights, of course, with significantly greater moral and material damage to Slovenia. This is what the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Wedam Lukić, made clear in her last interview for the evening incontrovertible and also of the most unfaithful ones. No referendum on this fact can change or make these rights impossible, but it can only delay their realization, but at a high price. This too needs to be said clearly and publicly, as these facts are also being hidden. The referendum therefore demands and will force the opposition; the decision cannot have the result the opposition wants. In preparation for the referendum, it will therefore promise the effects which the referendum cannot legally cause. Even the most favourable result of the referendum will not prevent deleted persons from exercising their rights. Then why such a referendum? Only for the mobilization of people and unfortunately this time against deleted, against the minority. A responsible policy would not allow this. The current position sees in this its pre-election interest as it openly predicts that the referendum will decide whether the Slovenian government is working properly or not. So it's a referendum that pursues different party policy goals, and the opposition that was wiped out has already been erased. Thus, everything is formal within the framework of the Constitution and the law, but in substance everything also constitutes an abuse of the Constitution and the law. That's what voters and voters should do, too, so they don't throw all the metal in the same basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Comrade Kebrich. He will present the views of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Podobnik. First, my friend Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dearly-respected presences, colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the government! We discussed this proposal in the parliamentary group and decided that we would support this proposal of the decision of the parent working body. Why? We come from the basic definition in the constitution that we have a people, that is to say, citizens, all right and fundamental rights, all of us are indirect, as first Members and Members, and then those institutions, those fora that are chosen from us. The Constitution says that in our independent Republic of Slovenia, the people have power, and why would they stop this people's right after the Constitution by not allowing them to express their opinion at the referendum. With the matter that we have complicated in this National Assembly with such and different opinions, we have taken such and different objections and have taken on the reputation of citizens, which we should increase, not diminishing them with our divisiveness. We come from the fact that certain legal experts speak this way, others oppose them and how we Members should then either believe one or the other or decide, as the nation says, by a simple farm of intelligence, by the logic that tells us how to decide and what to vote. If we take the view that this is a matter of human rights, we are in favour of the Group of Members, but only those who are legitimate from this point of view, that they do not act when someone speculates about what will be better for him in certain situations that can change, then simply refer to their fundamental human rights, and there was not enough in their pants to put themselves in a certain position at that time. We believe that all those who, in this sense of the proposal to correct injustices have been erased - the fact is that some have gone away but have not applied, even though they are enough [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Comrade Gračner, your microphone is on. Your microphone's on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Smart, literate, and then they knew what it was, and they had every opportunity to sign up and not be erased. [[...]] But it is true that many of those who were, I don't want to offend anyone, wasn't so busy, he wasn't interested in these things, but he didn't turn himself in out of ignorance at the time, and we're defending them that they need to recognize all that right ever since he actually proved that he lived here with us. The second point is that it is not entirely true that the matter will not cost the State, citizens, taxpayers anything. The fact is, it's going to cost so much or so taxpayer money. Fortunately, the law on pension and invalidity insurance provides that, under the law on pension and disability insurance, a person who has been entitled to a certain right at a certain time may exercise that right at a later time if he has not applied for objective or subjective reasons at that time. Fortunately, I repeat, this is a security guard that you can request this right no more than six months ago. This is all nice to calculate, and it is not true that this damage would not be from at least this area when people were affected by their pension when they were affected by their protective allowance, which are both specific rights related to permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to shorten, I will stress once again that, in the parliamentary group, we will adopt this bill in order to give people the right to express their views, and we do not simply agree that this referendum is meaningless because it does not decide on anything. He will at least decide that we will have Members and Members of the citizens' opinion, which will be expressed at this referendum. Secondly, we want to act rationally in the Group of Members, and therefore we want to bring these two referendums together on the same date, so that we can save at least 600 million, because otherwise this matter will go beyond one billion taxpayers' money. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Comrade Janez Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please. After him, colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also today be united in supporting the decree amending the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. Just like we did a few days ago. Then, a few days ago, when colleagues and colleagues decided not to support this decision, I said on behalf of the Group of Members that it was an unwise move and that this unwise move would have to be corrected by the National Assembly in the coming days. And also the fellow Members of the Group of Members, colleague Potrč, Anderlič and Kebrič, when you have justified the reasons for this extraordinary meeting, you have written, I think, correctly, that the National Assembly is obliged to do what must be done. Therefore, an extraordinary meeting must fulfil its constitutional duty and decide on a new proposal for a decision on the invitation to tender for a subsequent legislative referendum. Very directly said, colleagues and colleagues, she did not apologize for the conduct of the previous week, it is gone and it cannot be. There can be no excuse nor in the fact that the President of the National Assembly has mischaired the meeting but that I will therefore vote against the decree, that is a very bad argument. By the way, on this subject and on these procedural issues, the President of the National Assembly held an honorary meeting of the National Assembly and demonstrated how the meeting was conducted. There can be no argument not to support the decision to call for a referendum on the conduct of the opposition. You must not be prepared by the opposition at all. You are voting as a Member and a Member of Parliament. You are obliged to respect the procedures enshrined in the Constitution in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Rules of Procedure, and simply did not justify non-voting. But today we're going to fix this mistake. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect this correction to be agreed to show that we respect the Institute of the Referendum and everything related to this institution. As far as the content of the decree is concerned. If the Committee proposed a change of date, then we, as a parliamentary group, would come with an amendment today. On Sunday, April 4th, we think it's too far-off. This means that this referendum will be very, very close to the beginning of the European elections procedure, and we will bring this subject to the European elections in such a way. The Slovenian state, electives and voters, citizens and citizens deserve a referendum as soon as possible, one, only one. And that, of course, the content relating to the system law is written in a formal framework called the Constitutional Law. This, in our view, is the only right and possible path, and we also expect this to happen in the coming days. This constitutional law, however, should include solutions that will complement article 13 of the Constitutional Charter and thus prevent any further politicisation of this issue. Today we have received an answer to the question I have sent to the government. Thank you to the government for being very quick and responding to the question that has been raised [[That is, this question is still substantively related to the content of the referendum and the developments around it.]] : What and at what value will be the consequences of the already ratified successor agreement signed in Vienna on 29 June 2001 in connection with the issuance of supplementary decisions so-called deleted under a constitutional decision, i.e. how they will affect the state budget or the pension fund; or whether these rights may be restricted by the national assembly by systemic or constitutional law. In our view, this is a very important issue, which is directly linked to the content of such a technical law, which is the content of this referendum, but is even more related to the content that has not yet been finalized by marriage and which we hope will be resolved by constitutional law. In the parliamentary group, we are not opposed to receiving pensions from those foreigners who have worked in our country and deserve it. However, we are against getting a permanent residence permit from those who have paid their pension insurance in the former SFRJ and now wish to obtain a permanent residence permit in our country in return. And that's exactly what's happening right now, including with the supplementary decisions. In our view, the Government's explanation of this question is unclear in the key part of the answer. The government says: "The exception applies only to SFRJ military and state staff, which binds the right under the nationality criterion." We are asking whether this means that they are not subject to an agreement on succession and to which legislation or provision of legislation this answer relates. Indeed, this State Agreement is an international treaty above the ordinary law. It speaks of a basis called permanent residence - and that successor country is obliged to pay these residents a pension. And in the last paragraph, the government says, "We don't see a possibility." This is a very vague answer - whether there are options and how many people. And the question that will still be true in the coming weeks and months: What about the rights to go forward, from this law? Can the competent ministry foresee these consequences before the final settlement of this issue can be provided for either at the referendum or by the adoption of a constitutional law? Last but not least, can the issuance of the supplementary decisions that take place in these days also be the basis for the recognition of the residence of military persons who have acted against Slovenia. Unfortunately, the government has not answered these questions. The Group of Members will unanimously support the proposed decision on the call for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, followed by her colleague Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will call for a referendum for which the Constitutional Court has found that it will have no legal consequences. As we said at the time, when we first talked about this, this referendum will be a "fatamorganism". We are writing a referendum regulating the issue of decisions to those who have already been granted permanent residence permits in Slovenia. We are presenting a referendum on the issue of decisions to be issued on the day of the referendum because the Ministry of the Interior is issuing them in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court. Finally, we will call for a referendum, which, according to public opinion polls, is opposed by about 70% of Slovenian citizens and citizens. We write it down because the opposition and part of the Slovenian People's Party so requires, but they demanded it, despite knowing of the instructions of the Constitutional Court of the Ministry of the Interior on the issue of decisions issued again in December and despite having received our offer to repeal this law without a referendum. We will call it because that is what Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires of us. Although we are confident in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that the referendum on the implementation of the constitutional decision will not celebrate us with the referendum on human rights in the international environment, we will agree to the invitation to this referendum. Because because of article 90 of the Constitution, we have no choice but to assume that it is necessary. I would also like to clarify once again what would be rational in this referendum. I want all the referenda signed on the same day. This was also the only reason that we did not want to set a date for the referendum, because we did not know what referendums would be required in the Slovenian Coalition when the next law on the same issue was adopted and announced. We know that today. It was then that we assessed and suspected, and we know that we could do both on April 4th. However, we are hearing from their side of the announcement of new referendum initiatives. If these new initiatives are to take place by the Slovenian Coalition, then I must say this to the Slovenian public right now, then we will have to go to the referendum on the same issue twice or even more. I'm afraid there's no stopping it. However, I ask the Slovenian public to attribute the responsibility for this senseless abuse of referendum legislation to those who are genuinely taking advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u17	He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, after which he will receive the word of a colleague of mag. It's a trifle. My friend Peca first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! So again, we think of the matter that we are talking about today as having different materials, as if we have different knowledge, and as if we are pursuing different goals. Although it is probably true that we are pursuing different goals. At least in this case, the opposition is the one who seeks to keep the values of independence and the future of the Republic of Slovenia in their own hands, and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared, both history and the present and the future, to change for the kindness of some who come from other environments. However, those who claim that the matter of self-exposure has led to absurdity are also right. Really, we've led the matter to complete absurdity. However, those who had everything even in their hands during the entire decision - making process of self - erased should be blamed. As in other legislation, however, this thread has always been handled by government representatives and by the Pavl Government majority in this national assembly. Democracy is simply one where more than half of them decide on such important matters. And that's why it's so much more absurd that most people just refer to a minority that doesn't agree with a certain decision to reduce human rights and the like, forgive the expression, the nonsense. At the beginning of the story, last March, in the Slovenian National Party, we called on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, we estimate was made without a real basis, to disregard the act of independence, thus disregarding the basis for why it was given, and in its content, of course, the decision also does not take into account the consequences it will have on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or our country. We have asked the legislative branch of the Authority and the executive branch of the Authority to initiate appropriate procedures against activities which would result in a decision not being implemented in a form that would be detrimental to the further development of our country. The national party is probably the only party in which we have advocated the referendum theory from the beginning. At a time when it was clear that policy will not, according to our assessment, find enough wisdom to lead us, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from the aforementioned and emerging troubles. We believe the referendum is late at this point. That a referendum should have been held long ago and that the government of the Republic of Slovenia, the ministry and that part of the ruling majority in this national assembly should agree and tell the citizens of our country that they will respect the referendum will. Unfortunately, however, both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State and, as a good part, unfortunately, the Members in this National Assembly have announced publicly that the referendum outcome does not apply to them. That our country's legislation does not apply to them. And that our country's constitution does not apply to them. According to our assessment, a major error has been made when both the legislator and the executing authority were unwilling to adopt normal legal procedures, i.e. when the policy on a particular matter cannot be waived because of complexity, for reasons of complexity, but leave a certain decision to citizens and citizens. According to our assessment, this decision should therefore be left to our citizens, especially because, through the question of the story deleted, no matter how many you advocate, we are altering the act of independence, the values of independence, today's policy of the Republic of Slovenia and probably, also important, of course, the future. By allowing, and the fact is that you are allowing this decision and by the complications mentioned above to cause the state budget to be changed in the form of, of course, items for so-called payment, according to our assessment of completely unjustifiable, compensation to those who have either attacked or speculated on different statuses. According to our assessment, the original sin was committed at a time when the competent minister, Mr Bohinc, started with the need for two laws, both systemic and technical. At the time of the division of matter into two laws, complications began within the legislative and executive branches of government. From here also the need of some after a double referendum, following double decisions on the call for a referendum, after hundreds of calls to the Constitutional Court by representatives of the ruling parties and after hundreds of calls or requests by the Prime Minister to a constitutional court, of course how the said matter should operate. Unfortunately, it is because of this government policy, which does not honor or benefit the Republic of Slovenia, that the story of self-exposure began or continued this year. That's what we want. We don't want to become an election story. What we are assessing, at least in the national party, is that it also has one positive issue. So that people will be able to see who in this country wants where. Does it want to be on the one hand on the 'nooral Balkans', which is so much more important, because the fact is that those who today advocate the so-called idea of Yugoslavia, the so-called idea of the great Yugoslavia and defend rights, of course, in quotations, all those who have issued this country in the most important moments, then this clearly tells us how you will act at the moment when Slovenia will also have to decide on the rights of citizens of the European Union. According to our assessment, and the fact is that the requests of the Liberal Democracy, the United Letters and DeSUS, that is, delaying, procedural complications, requests to the government, requests to the National Assembly and to the Constitutional Court, point to both in conscriptions and do not even issue such self-servicing values as the Slovenia at this time. And, of course, if you have such a vehement attitude towards the issue, to the issue and to show so little confidence in your own citizens, I reiterate how you will then act once we have passed on the work of sovereign rights on the basis of Article 3a of the Constitution to the various institutions of the European Union. The fact is that the independence of our country was opposed by individuals, one of course loudly, one less loudly, one more fled, the other speculated. But the fact is, there are many former politicians among them who have managed to get to the surface today. This is the same with the Foreign Minister, Mr Bohinec, and some Members and, of course, with the key, so-called peacekeepers, the exclusive intellectuals and the various humanists, who today are shouting and defending the exclusive and completely autonomous rights of the so-called deleted. It is clear, however, that what you failed to achieve during the period of independence, that is to say, to prevent our country's independence, you have unfortunately succeeded in part to the Minister, one of the founding members of such an organisation, the political party that fought for Yugoslavia to start issuing decisions, and these decisions will unfortunately have a very negative status, so what it has done so far will have major negative consequences. Part of the answer, but part of the answer that needs to be read through or over the lines, we received today on the parliamentary bench regarding the question raised by colleague Podobnik. But I would like to touch that unfortunately this kind of action, that is to say, according to our assessment of the uplifters who were ten and a few years ago still exclusively, both at the substantive level and at the legal level on the part of Yugoslavia, which is contrary to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, and today in some of the most important places where they have unfortunately all threads and scissors in their hands, they are not alone and alone in politics. Other adherents of the great Yugoslavia, capital and similar things have thus dispersed into the media and various human rights institutes and similar spokesmen about peace and honesty, but you probably know the "fear of the one who claims to be purely honest". In the national party, we note and believe that the entire State of the Republic of Slovenia also notes that, under the legislative procedure, you have done everything possible to delay procedures to delay the referendum and thus bring this self-initiating or political issue closer to being resolved. According to our assessment, in the last period, that is to say, in 2004 you also started with successful media manipulation, in nicknames. The articles, the columns in the daily and weekly hardships clearly indicate an expansion of your political idea that those who do not fight for the rights of the deleted, i.e. with this unemployment in the country, with the daily loss of several vital companies to maintain jobs, have become fascist and xenophobic. The fact is that, of course, under the supervision of the combined list, the public agency TV Slovenia has also joined in the last period since the story has been drawn, even in the context of not only more informative but also educational shows, has begun to present various stories about the so-called problem deleted. Mrs Shirca, I have already asked you to calm down last week, at least for as long as I am speaking, I will ask you to do the same today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u19	My colleagues, please, my colleague Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u20	The fact is that you're trying to create the impression that whoever's not with you, so it's not for so-called erased, aggressors and speculators, has become xenophobic in this country. And it is very modern in the daily newspaper and at the public institute of TV Slovenia to talk about how Slovenia, in a certain part, at least the Slovenian Parliament, divided into righteous people based solely on liberal democracy and the unified list, as well as on xenophobics coming from the opposition. But personally, I do not believe that Slovenians and Slovenians are so naive that they will believe this very provisional game that you create through your second or third hand, which is more or less unfortunately related to all the media within our country. Finally, in order to conclude and leave the word to another fellow Member, Mr Barovic, it is important to mention the most important thing to all those self-appointed human rights guardians, peacekeepers and various government lacquers, who are constantly nagging you here in the National Assembly, both behind me and before me, it is necessary to say that whenever you use the theory that at the referendum, as the most democratic form of decision-making instrument within the framework of rights and obligations, we must not decide on human rights. Yeah, who's to decide? The National Assembly, the government? We've long known this to be a total liberal democracy. And I believe your desire and the desire that, within the framework of human rights in this country, liberal democracy should decide exclusively. But we do not agree with this theory in the national party today and we will never, because the fact is that your reach or the ability to understand human rights in the sense or in your words is only when the talk about so-called deleted. Never in this National Assembly have you, or a Group of Members of Liberal Democracy, supported by a united list and, of course, DeSUSa, supported those debates that would allow the protection of the human rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No, no, no. All of you voted against the debate on the loss of jobs in Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia, after the entry into the European Union, but this is not important for now. All of you have voted against the headless indebtedness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia both at home and abroad, but these are things that certainly do not tange you. None of you have ever highlighted the right to work for citizens and citizens. Mr. Anderlich, I see you're nodding. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But the fact is, it's very sad. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Don't argue with your friends from the bench. Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u22	not interested in the social situation in our country and to you exclusively. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u23	There's no reason to argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u24	Of course, they are interested in capital interests in relation to deleted ones. [[..]] In the Slovenian National Party, as always, while you are friends of capital in power, we will oppose your theory of human rights. In the national party, we defend the rights of Slovenians and Slovenes, and all our decisions will weigh down to one. My friend Jakič, I believe you've become sleepy, but think of our own country for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Look, at the college, you kindly warned me to reach out to the debate if she was to move away from the subject of the discussion, and I carefully predicted that I could then be the most involved in the matter. Of course, all of you who will make peace in the hall have the right to speak, and I will not touch it. [[...]] All I ask is that, as far as possible, you take account of the subject matter. A colleague of mags. It's a trifle. Peace in the hall. Please, mag. The trouper will now communicate the position of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Opinion of the parliamentary group on the implementation of the referendum in conjunction with point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision. In fact, we only decide on a date. With regard to this decision, which we are adopting today, it is necessary to emphasise that the New Slovenia Group has already set a date and therefore has no moral obligation to confirm it again, but we will nevertheless. For for you the legal hands are of relative importance and what we are doing today is actually a waste of time, because we should accept it for the last time, but you have relativized your hands, for yet two or three days later we can accept it. In fact, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative clearly states that within seven days of the receipt of the decision or the reply by the Constitutional Court, the State Assembly should call and set the date of the referendum. Of course that didn't happen. It didn't happen for two or three days, but it actually happened a week later. The law to which the legislative referendum relates was submitted was tabled under a reduced procedure, although it did not fulfil this condition. You have violated Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The law before us and you have also adopted it did not provide for any financial implications for the budget, which is contrary to the third indent of paragraph 2 of Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure. You have also violated this Article of the Rules of Procedure. So this was the journey to this law, which is now the subject of citizens' pronouncements. Of course, some of you are also relativizing the importance of the referendum, mixing this crucial possibility of people deciding. Of course, a referendum may be unnecessary from this point of view, but at the moment it is necessary because of such a decision and because of such a law. Thus, such violations of the law, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution take place because representatives of the ruling coalition simply fake all of this and thus let citizens know that compliance with the legal rules does not apply to you. But you're asking citizens to hold their deadlines. You can imagine that a person running for public funds at various ministries would have missed 15 minutes and the application would have been rejected. All the complications that are taking place in relation to the deleted are due, to the greatest extent, to the politicised Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which adapts its decisions and explanations to the political demands of the ruling coalition rather than to rely on the Slovenian Constitution and constitutional laws that justify our undisputed statehood recognised by the democratic states. Surely, however, all this complication is also due to controversial government decisions. The proposal of two laws that are capable of achieving a partisan role beyond the principles of justice and the detriment of citizens and contrary to the self-sustaining aspirations of the Slovenians and other people who have opted for democratic Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we have tried to support those amendments that would make the text acceptable out of this, otherwise controversial law. In particular, that this text would follow the following conditions: individual verification of the facts which are the basis for the exercise of rights also for the return - that is, retrograde - of the person's will to arrange it, that is to say, to submit an application and document the facts accordingly. A positive solution would have been if the application had been unlawfully rejected or rejected because the authority had not issued the permit and it should have been by law. Or if the application was rejected for failure to comply with the conditions resulting from objective circumstances at the time when things took place in the former republics of Yugoslavia. This would certainly not be in favour of those who have not responded to Slovenia's call to join this war, in terms of defending democracy, they have sinned against Slovenia or have also "de facto" left Slovenia and have thus proved that there is no permanent residence. The New Slovenia Group, as it has already supported the decree, will also support it this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u27	A colleague of Janez Janša has the floor. He will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The presentation will be concluded by a colleague of Štemberger. First of all, my friend Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! What we're doing today should have been done a long time ago. Members of Parliament have been elected by the electorate, the majority of Members, especially the ruling majority in Parliament, have great power in democracy. No one's practically bigger. This majority can adopt and amend laws, with a 2/3 majority can adopt and amend even the Constitution and more important laws adopted by the constitutional majority. In no democratic country, however, does this parliamentary majority have the authority to violate such laws and constitutions. If that happens, then the legal order falls apart. And that's exactly what happened on February 2, 2004, and that's why the government coalition is doing a correctional exam here today. The 90th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of a legislative referendum, says: "The National Assembly may call a referendum on matters governed by law. The National Assembly is tied to the outcome of the referendum." The National Assembly must call for a referendum if at least one third of the Members, the State Council or 40,000 voters so require. The referendum shall be governed by a law adopted by the National Assembly with a majority of the votes of 2/3 Members present. It is also said that the law on referendum and human initiative is practically a constitutional category. The Inta Law states, in Articles 16 and 19, that if the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, it is for the Constitutional Court to decide. The Constitutional Court ruled on the request in 30 days. The national assembly shall present a preliminary referendum no later than 30 days after the submission of the request for a referendum. In the event that a request for a constitutional court is challenged by the National Assembly, the referendum shall be opened no later than 7 days after the decision of the Constitutional Court has been taken to ensure that the request for a referendum is not unconstitutional. This deadline expired on Monday, 2 February 2004, at 24.00 p.m. The government majority in the National Assembly voted arrogantly against the referendum call ruling, even though the constitution does not give it that power With such conduct, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has humiliated and turned it into a Paris commune, where the procedure was established on the other hand, for daily use. From this hour forward, the legislative authority in Slovenia is in an unconstitutional state, where the will of the rulings has driven it. The day after that, at the press conference, the largest government parties heard a statement by a ruling coalition member who said that they would use all means, including force, to stop the opposition. From this statement forward and from this conduct of the government majority, which violated the Constitution and the law on referendum and human initiative, there are many fears in Slovenia again. Today, the government coalition is doing a correctional exam out of respect for the constitutional order, and we all want it to succeed. That is why we have an extraordinary meeting today. We already have a third extraordinary session, which you have requested from Members and Members of the ruling coalition on the same subject by signature. In such a short time, we never had one for the other three extraordinary meetings on the same subject, nor at the time of Slovenian independence, when there was a great deal of haste. As if this authority had no other work in the country - for the third time it has convened an extraordinary meeting for the deleted because it is constantly entangled in procedural matters; whenever it says it will cut, it shoots to its knees. We ask where are the other important subjects for which you do not convene an extraordinary session. Where the Income Act, which was also repealed by a Constitutional Court decision, has been pending for seven years. Many Slovenian citizens pay unjustifiable income because you are in no hurry here. All those in the government have vowed to work for the well-being of Slovenia and all its citizens and citizens. We note that in recent months rulings have been working primarily for the well-being of the so-called deleted and have forgotten about the oath. We are discussing the law proposed by the government. We have made a referendum request to this law; if the government had not proposed a law, then we could not have made a referendum request. If the government Members had accepted our amendment, which allowed selective treatment, there would also be no referendum requirement. None of this has happened and today again about the same thing at the request of the ruling coalition. However, despite the fact that the government has proposed a law, despite the fact that today the National Assembly is re-signing a referendum on this law, the Minister of the Government, who rules Slovenia, which has all the power, is issuing a decision without law to return. At a time when we are discussing the referendum, the law proposed by the government is being issued by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. To issue them as much as possible, he even reassigned administrative workers from other areas. Since one automatically without law receives decisions to return unjustifiably, many others who should receive them rightly await these decisions for years and years from the same government. Almost 500,000 cases are pending in Slovenian courts, half a million people are awaiting a fair verdict, and there is no rush here. People receive legal judgments from working and social courts after seven years. It says many times that they have to take them back to work and pay them back. But the company that fired them has been gone for five years, and the bankruptcy mass is gone. Justice is not vindictive. And you've never been in a hurry there. The government has proposed a law to which we have made a referendum request. But before the proceedings were closed before the law even came into force, the government changed its mind that the Constitutional Court, in a decision last December, had said that we did not need law. In a decision of December last year, the Constitutional Court said that the referendum issue was okay, not against the Constitution. This was stated in the decision. However, the explanation repeats an argument which has been in the operative part of the Constitutional Court decision since April of last year. It's from the time before the Ministry even began to prepare the marriage. We are now in a paradoxical tragic situation where the minister who proposed the law paid 16 million taxpayers' money for a few articles, suddenly in the position that the law does not need to make the law irrelevant or say that the referendum is irrelevant. But the referendum is about the law you filed, which you voted for. Why did you vote a meaningless marriage? Do not discuss the consequences. The Minister of the Government of Liberal Democracy and the United List paid 16 million for the legal matter, which you say is irrelevant. According to a legal opinion based on this law, 13 constitutional and other lawyers who say that the law is necessary If the law is irrelevant, I ask the government: Will Mr Bohinc and Mr Rob, and I don't know who else in the government that made the decision, put these 16 million out of his pocket? Are we going to make a meaningless marriage because you're saying it's irrelevant, in your opinion, now we're going to pay those who don't blame us for it? Either follow the procedure, including the results of the referendum as they will, or the money on the table, and pay it in advance. The same is true of our stomachs sometimes when we listen to how this referendum will cost us 600 million, how money will be thrown out the window, how it will be wasted and so on. 600 million tolars, as much as they "cost" an election or a referendum, are given to citizens and citizens of this country who work on election committees for their diaries, and this is not going anywhere in the country. All of this goes to those who spend it anyway within the national economy. It's a waste of money. It's a waste of money. For 600 million Slovenian citizens and citizens working in the electoral commissions, it is a shame, but when it comes to the so-called deleted, and here 'human rights' in quotations, they have no price. Here, however, we would be paying compensation, in Banja Luka, in Belgrade, in Pristina, many have what is only a fictional, regulated status, precisely because they expect these compensations. That's why it's no harm. 600 million for Slovenian citizens who would have received them if they were working on a referendum is a pity, and once again for money after Sava there is no harm. The same mentality, which for years, decades and decades poured out Slovenian accumulation to build Belgrade-Bar tracks and roads, stadiums in Belgrade and Pristina. Even today, Slovenian metropolis has no decent stadium, we are building on highway credits and still building a decent national and university library. Before that, Slovenian money made these libraries from Pristina to Titograd. The same mentality that was then stolen from the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers is now in power. As a result, the referendum on the so-called technical law will not be meaningless. This referendum will decide whether the government is doing right or wrong by solving the problem of so - called deleted persons in the way it solves them or makes them more complicated. If you get confirmation at the referendum that you're doing the right thing, then we'll respect that. However, if voters and voters say that you are not doing the right thing, we expect you to respect this will and not start suddenly about those who have elected you to be in power today, saying again that they are impatient, xenophobic and that this time their voice is not valid. We expect the same behavior, no matter what the result is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Mr Štemberger will now conclude the position of the parliamentary groups. It will present the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. Then I'll draw your attention to one matter regarding the procedure and then we'll go to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! We are meeting again with the resolution on the call for a referendum on the technical law on deleted persons, this time for the third time, and I sincerely hope that this is the last time. I now wonder, in essence, what was the "point" of the anti-constitutional behaviour of some Members, in particular those of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom, that they voted against the decree for the last time. If, for the last time, they explained that they did not act contrary to the Constitution because the amendments to the decree are not binding on time, or then the same conduct can be expected today. Then, with these changes in dates, we can postpone it indefinitely, since the referendum could never theoretically be. Your action can only be understood as a message that the argument of power can also override the argument of the Constitution and the rule of law. It is our opinion that a grave error was made last time. Not only has the Constitution been violated and the basic principles of the rule of law not been respected, but another has been committed in a series of political errors on the left. Incomprehensible action has reopened the media space to those populists who will be discussing again today for a few hours a topic that could be completed for the last time.The basic error of the minister, who went into the procedure with two laws, instead of one. The Minister could at least, at the same time, predict events and act more wisely than allow months and months of debate on the subject of deleted and consequently spread intolerance. I therefore rightly wonder if he deserves the city and the position he holds. First, the technical law, and the public presentation of opinions, the first on the system law, and the first on the referendum, and the second on the referendum, and the second on the system-wide debate, I still don't know how many fruitless working meetings are at different levels, and today again the referendum resolution, this time for the third time, I don't know if we have a constitutional law yet. Thank you very much for all the options for the debate you are giving us on the subject of deleted, but this topic has been dragging on for several months and will probably continue until the elections. This already has a strong sense of cheap campaigning and already exceeds all limits of healthy and reasonable taste. It is difficult to say something new, but I hope that we will vote on what we should vote last time, and because of the unconstitutional conduct of some, we have failed. Repeat only the fact that the referendum is totally unnecessary and imposed because of the stubbornness of one, on the one hand, and the incompetence of the other, on the other hand. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the proposal to amend the resolution on the invitation to a referendum, as we have done for the first time, because we respect the rule of law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time giving up any populist debate on the subject deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. We have concluded with you the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before we move on to the debate and the word you will have with your colleagues, let me remind you that today at the college it has been decided that 10 minutes after the last debater we will go to the vote. Towards the end of the already reported colleague of colleagues, I will point out that we are approaching the end of the debate, and then I will interrupt the work of the National Assembly in 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, we will move on to the decision on agenda item 1 and then immediately to agenda item 2. The same rule will apply in the second case in point 2. Since the question raised by Comrade Podobnik was asked, does the Minister want to answer and just to answer that question give him a few minutes of time to answer? Then she'll get the word "colleague mag." Spending. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the fact that we have understood from the discussion of Comrade Sponik that it is not sufficiently clearly stated in the government response, I would suggest that you listen for a minute or two. I would like to make it very clear that the succession agreement does not have any legal effects on the issue of decisions under point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision, nor on the system law, nor on the technical law or on the basis of its decision. In short, it has no legal effect. Secondly, I would like to make it very clear that it is not to be expected that, on the basis of an agreement on succession and in this regard, decisions issued on the basis of the laws we are preparing, or directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, anyone could obtain any right to a pension for the purpose of obtaining a permanent residence or finding a permanent residence back. I hope that I have been clear enough on these two issues. Thirdly, the succession agreement does not regulate any new grounds or any grounds for obtaining the right to a pension. The Succession Agreement governs the binding circumstances under which it is determined which State is obliged to pay pensions that have already been earned - I repeat, which have already been acquired - not any pensions that may be obtained once later. This is said to be the pension for which Slovenia had to assume certain obligations under this Agreement, under the predominant criteria of citizenship and not under the criteria of residence. The issue of the pensions of military personnel employed in the former country has, as you know, regulated the law of 1998 or the entry into force of 1999. This was arranged in such a way that someone could exercise the right to this pension before 25.1.1991. Then he had to exercise this right and also prove his residence before 25.1.1991. Therefore, the issue of supplementary decisions on the finding of a stay back to those who have already obtained re-entry licences by 25 February 1992 has absolutely nothing to do with those who obtained pensions before 25.6.1991. So much for that. Since I am speaking, I would like to deny the information given here by Mr Janša that we have paid 16 million for the law on which we are speaking today. We did not pay a tolar for the law on which we are speaking today, nor did we pay a tolar for the legal opinion of a group of experts that justified the original decision on technical law. Just so much for the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u33	Thank you. My colleague Janš was mentioned and therefore wishes to provide an incorrect explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u34	Mr. Minister, I don't know what address this was paid for, but it was paid to the same institute and to the same people who did it to you. I suggest we do an audit in your accounting, and I'll prove it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u35	It's a replica of the replica. It's a typical explanation of the facts. I'll give you my word for the replica, and then we'll finish this thing. Please, Mr. Secretary. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u36	I repeat, no contracts and no money for any of the laws we are talking about, nor for the legal opinion. I am pleased and pleased to accept any revision of this dossier.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u37	We're going in the order of the debate, just as you've been reported. Mag. Majda Potrat has the first word, followed by her colleague Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. I didn't count all the times we talked about being erased. But there is certainly a very strong belief in me, and probably also in the Slovenian public, that what is always happening to us in the face of these problems is that we are talking about two laws, and we are never talking about the law that is mentioned in the proposed agenda. Today is the talk on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and this continues. Let me remind those who have looked at the law, or those who have not done so, that it is a law covering all four articles and that it has been established for this law that it is the power of the Constitutional Court to issue a supplementary decision without this legal basis. Let us now put aside the fact that the legal opinion of distinguished experts has told us that we should have an appropriate legal basis for the implementation of the 8th point. The following explanation of the Constitutional Court spoke differently. Among others, a decision by a Constitutional Court that did not go to the conclusion of the substantive reasons for the referendum also stated that the decision on the referendum was an express political decision. Indeed, Article 90 of the Constitution states that 30 Members have the right to request a subsequent legislative referendum, but it is true that respect for human rights is also enshrined and ordered in this Constitution. The question that comes to me in this regard is, "Is it possible in such a conflict of interest where one group of people knows exactly their rights and is willing to enforce them at all costs, or is there another group of people, in this case around 4,000 thousand people, given the opportunity to exercise their human rights and also to achieve respect for those rights?" I fear that, as usual, there is always power on the part of those who are more skilled and those who have the power to make decisions. When I met the Internal Policy Committee before the previous extraordinary meeting, the proposal to amend the date of the referendum was confirmed. It was confirmed today. Both times without any special discussion. Of course, there were no soot of headlamps and an intolerable charm of television broadcasting, so we probably did not show any special willingness to debate. Of course, the matter is significantly different when the cameras are turned on and when a technical law makes it possible to hear a lot of things that are not included in this law at all. The call for a referendum concerns a smaller group of people, about 4 000 people, we have already said several times, those who are by age, by education, very different by profession, both genders, and they have often been heard that this is mainly by former JLA officers. Well, it was finally possible to hear that there were about 14 illiterate cleaners among them. One wonders: What has age, profession, education with human rights? These are universal. I think it's hard to expect the reconciliation of spirits in such a neighbourhood, in the social context. It is not surprising, therefore, that the indignation at the vote last week was so great and that the main issue was the unconstitutionalness and irresponsibility of Members. The question could also be asked differently. Indeed, some legal experts and part of the public have said that the decision of those who voted against the amendment of the date or the amendment of the referendum decision was unacceptable. The same is true of those who already oppose the call for a referendum because they consider the call for a referendum which has no legal consequences of nonsense. Therefore, any reasonable solution to such a decision is difficult to consider reasonable, not to say that it is difficult to consider it smart. I think we're in the middle of an unfinished story about the egg and the road. But it would be very easy if we answered a very simple question, which is just, "Was there any injustice or injustice done to these people?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Comrade Pohorec has the floor, followed by Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! A subsequent legislative referendum on the confirmation or rather the rejection of the so-called technical law has already been called for. There is no dilemma, not in the Group of Members, not in my own eyes. Since the adoption of the decree providing for the referendum on 22 February was followed by the adoption of this second system law on deleted, the deadline of 22 February was, of course, somewhat premature and should be re-defined. As long as we have adopted this system law, which we have considered at an extraordinary meeting, there has been a new requirement, after another referendum to prevent the adoption of this law, that is to say, this system law. It could happen that during a period of 30 or less days we would have two referendums on essentially the same issue. I didn't want to agree to this option either, so I said at the last meeting that I do not support this decision. I didn't object to him, I didn't vote against him. However, I did not support him in particular for the reason that we would not have two referendums on the same issue over a period of one month, but it is both deleted. Today, this possibility of both referendums, i.e. on both laws, being done on the same day, which is rational, and we need to be careful, I see and I will support the adoption of a decision amending this term. Although I respect, not only today, but also today, the legitimate right, at the request of the Group of Members, to call a referendum on a question, if we have not managed to reach a high-quality agreement on an important issue in this Chamber and there are too many points of dispute that we cannot cross by political parties. As a Member, I, like the other group, have the right to my own judgment and to have an opinion on the proposed content of the decision, especially when it comes to the issue of human rights, on the question of when people will decide to be under-informed, unobjectively informed, already further provoked by such alarming news that it is already known before the call for a decision at the referendum itself. The result is therefore plausible, for such alarming consciences as 800 billion claims for damages and the like have caused unrest among people. And wherever you step today, the darkness is present - deleted. The announcement of this second referendum, at the same time, naturally initiates a procedure for decisions to be issued by the internal ministry, which will also be in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The result will be that the referendum will therefore reject the legal solution to the decision, delete decisions based on the Constitutional Court will be issued and any questions raised regarding possible claims for damages will remain open because the law simply does not allow them to be settled. I cannot help but feel that the explicit tendency of individuals and groups not to bring the demand to an end is an acceptable solution worthy of this national assembly, worthy of the Republic of Slovenia as the new modern society of the members of the European Union and NATO, with which we compare common values and respect for human rights, in order to ensure that the deleted as an open topic is used in a pre-election period. Despite these dilemmas that I have alone, which I meet everywhere, where I step, especially among my constituents, I will vote today for my decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My friend Rokavec has the floor, followed by a colleague of Krebs's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members, as well as other Members present! I wondered if today the majority of the government coalition would allow people to finally decide on this issue. I expect that, in the end, what the representatives of the parliamentary groups have said will also be adopted. In fact, it is unheard of that any political party in the National Assembly may be allowed to call for disrespect for the Constitution. This happened in this House a week ago by the two most powerful government parties, both the Liberal Democracy and the United List. That is why, in order for the public to know, it would explicitly stress the following. Mr Pokrč has equated non-compliance with the Constitution with non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. They're not the same rank, Mr. Potch. The Constitution is above the decision of the Constitutional Court; the Constitutional Court can interpret laws by its decision. The decisions of the Constitutional Court, however, can also be changed by this national assembly or any other party in parliamentary democracy, but not by law - by constitutional law. This option has already been used by this National Assembly. Also, the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Wedam Lukić, said a week ago that this was actually a legitimate option for the National Assembly - when politics considered that a particular issue should be settled differently than it could be regulated by law. I believe that the issue of so-called deleted persons has gained so many dimensions, as well as in professional circles, legal circles of so many different interpretations, that they deserve this courage and this act of the national assembly. This would avoid a wide range of discussions in the National Assembly, as well as a referendum. However, dear colleagues in the coalition, I believe that there are very many mistakes on your part, with the various initiatives and proposals you have made in this process. But these decisions and these actions, of course, are your actions, not the actions of the People's Party. Here I would actually point to public manipulation, in the first place to manipulation by the parties already mentioned, when you try to show in public that it is only part of the People's Party against the solutions proposed by the government. We have repeatedly shown in this debate that the position of the people's party here is united, that it opposes such solutions, that these solutions are improvisation. On the other hand, the manipulation of the opposition, where it also tries to put the human party in this matter within the framework of the government coalition. Here I think it is right to look at the survey already mentioned, that the public in this case trusts that part of the government coalition that wants to solve the issue with two laws, less than that, significantly less, only a quarter of those who believe in these solutions, to those who say otherwise. That's why I think it is, and I've also made sure, on the basis of this survey, that we're right once again. I believe that there is no longer time for long-standing debates in the National Assembly, that people should be asked about this issue. Again, I wonder why the Minister of the Interior or the Ministry on Tuesday, after the so-called constitutional coup in the National Assembly, started issuing supplementary decisions. I think it's an eclectic violation of our constitution. The Constitution says - Mr Potrč - that the legal rules are in force on laws and other regulations. The legal profession was different. At first, it was you who advocated this solution. There must be a law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. We said otherwise. The whole issue of the Constitutional Court's decision must be resolved by one law. Nor did the legal profession hired by Mr Minister give explicit final solutions. She allowed the possibility that this issue could be resolved by a single law. I believe that this is about deception and that it is still about deception, which also has political objectives. I think those goals are bad. I'm sure and I'd like the ruling part of the coalition to allow people to decide. I don't agree to thesis, you have to have, it's very right, two referendums, but frankly, you won't have to have two referendums. If the referendum is only about a technical law, such as the public opinion of people at this time, they will already say in this referendum that it is necessary to make a different decision. There's only gonna be one referendum. And then the politics will sober up. That's why I would just say that to conclude, because I think that there's enough talk about this: let those who have a majority in this national council be able to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. A colleague of Krebs, a colleague of Barovich, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Podobnik is not here right now, but I would like to inform him that in the multitude of deceptions that have been heard in the debates so far, Mr Podobnik has indeed taken advantage of the new deception today by inadvertently linking the issue of military pensions, as set out in the successful agreement, with the issue of deleted. The government's response, Mr Podobnik, is indeed so precise that it is difficult to misinterpret it. This reply makes it clear that only those who have acquired a military pension before 26.6.1991 have the right to a successful agreement. This issue is not connected when reading all these legislations with the issue that has been deleted in any way. You've been very concerned about respect for the Constitution. I would like to ask you to be as concerned about the constitutional right of deleted persons as you are about the constitutional right to referenda. They're both constitutional rights. The right of Members to a referendum cannot, and it is not right, to have priority over the right of ordinary citizens and citizens to their constitutional rights. And quite a few dramatic words have been heard in the past performances. The constitutional coup, the legal order fell apart, said Mr Janez Janša, when 2.2 we did not set a deadline. Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which has even been read, provides an example of the constitutionality of the referendum issue, not of the constitutionality of the decision on the call for a referendum. If the referendum story on electoral law had been followed more precisely, which had also been used on several occasions as a story worth listening to, they would have known that at that time the Constitutional Court explicitly ordered the national assembly in 1996 to set new deadlines for the referendum invitation within 7 days. In this case, the Constitutional Court has not fixed any deadline for us today, so of course we have not been able to exceed it. And that's what I'd say. Despite the fact that the seven-day deadline in 1996 was explicitly set, it was not until the ninth day that the State Assembly decided to comply with the re-decision. At that time, in 1996, no one identified the dramatic breakdown of the legal system in our country, nor the constitutional coup that is being heard here today. Even at twenty times, thirty times the legitimate interest in saving the taxpayer's money, which has led us to such a decision, once again the words of the breakdown of the rule of law in our country. Really, it's not right. However, our view of history shows us that there have been many cases and no problems with what is happening today. Again and again, it has been heard that a referendum on the law to execute the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision would not have been adopted if an amendment of the opposition had been adopted to ensure individual treatment. We reiterate that both the technical law and the system law require individual treatment. The amendment you tabled only required that individual treatment be carried out twice. You argued that it was important for you to determine whether these people lived in Slovenia all the time. How serious you meant it, you showed by your version of the constitutional law that you filed at some point and then you withdrew very quickly. But there you could read that at the time you introduced the constitutional law, it was no longer important whether people really lived here - individual treatment - but it was only there that you submitted an application for a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia as foreigners until 25.2.1992. In the previous debate, we have stressed that it is really difficult to find common solutions with you, because of the views that you are changing over and over again. The talk that the resolution of this issue would be the adoption of your amendment, in order to mean that the referendum would not have been our own fault, was denied the second we introduced your amendments in the next law, in the system law, and your solutions, and in the second reading we experienced a preliminary legislative referendum on the same issue, despite your amendments being adopted. Therefore, do not blame the coalition MPs and Members, who have always stressed that we want to settle the issue in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. And then the question is, Why did we vote on a meaningless law? It has been pointed out a million times that the adoption of a higher-a-vis law by the Constitutional Court is one of the possible ways. You keep stressing that you have been satisfied with the solution and you are also demanding the law and that if you were to take part in the adoption of the solutions in this law, it actually seemed that this would be where we could find a common way in dialogue with you. We have adopted the law, we have not decided that marriage is irrelevant. You made it irrelevant, and that's the moment you put in a referendum initiative. If the law could be in force today, the Ministry of the Interior would issue decisions on the basis of a law which is in substance exactly the same as the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision when it came to being a so-called temporary legislator. Besides, the law is not the only basis for making decisions. The legal basis for decisions is, of course, also Article 15 of the Constitution, which provides that human rights can be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution. I ask that you cease to be drawn out of locker 153 of the Constitution, which says that administrative decisions are issued only on the basis of law. Of course it is, yes, but not necessarily when it comes to the exercise of human rights. And by stressing this all the time, you do not think that in the Constitutional Court, when they have decided as they are, they do not know the 153rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think they know him very well and that they also know Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, whose content I have previously stated. Besides, decisions aren't made automatically. It is true that they are issued, as is the only reasonable and necessary: by official duty, with an extremely careful examination of the documentation in the file of each individual. These documents must confirm that an individual in the Republic of Slovenia has actually lived all the time. Otherwise the decision cannot be issued. The actual residence of these people, as is the only right, will also become a legally recognized residence, as is the case with modern and democratic states. And an extremely interesting criterion introduced today by Mr Janez Janša on the rationality of spending tax money. Mr Janša said that if 600 million taxpayers' money is paid to Slovenian citizens and citizens, it is fine. Even if the referendum is unnecessary without legal effects, if the money goes to these addresses, that is fine. At the very next moment, Mr Janša says and jumps into his own teeth when he has a problem with 16 million, which is expected to be paid to Slovenian legal experts for their efforts in drafting the law. Mr Janša - unfortunately for village here - but also when the money goes into the hands of Slovenian legal experts, he will remain in Slovenian hands. And when problems arise that compensation will go to Banja Luka, of course this is not true, if we know that we are talking about people who have been living in our country since birth, some of them will be staying in our country, and this money will go into the hands of people who live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And the last. It was said, well, at this referendum you will not decide on anything, but you will decide whether this authority acted correctly. That is not true. It will be decided whether the law, the technical law, be confirmed or not. And if you wanted to ask Slovenian citizens and citizens if we are right when the authorities want to respect the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court and when we want to settle this, if we are doing the right thing, please ask them at a referendum that does not have borders in our country - ask them whether we are doing the right thing when we want to work in accordance with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm afraid you're afraid of that result, and that's why you won't ask them at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u45	Now we're going in the order in which we're going. Colleague [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, but if it's really procedural. Please state your proposal first, then you'll justify it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u46	No, procedural, procedural question, Mr President-respected. Believe me, I very much like to watch and listen to Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, but as far as we are concerned from the Slovenian National Party Group, we are not allowed to discuss the exchange. We've had a disagreement three times over this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u47	No, no, I'll explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u48	Once again, there will be no misunderstandings, Irma, but I ask you, we have had three misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u49	I owe you an explanation and I'll give it to you. If there is a change between colleagues or colleagues on the list, it is not questionable if they are registered. But if they're not, then it can't be done. And we're holding on like a drunk fence. My friend Barovic, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u50	Okay, I'm not going to use my time because I hope I'm going to make a very useful effort to take advantage of the content we're talking about. Dear Mr. Secretary! You said earlier that no one - let us leave the debate with Mr Janša - has received nothing, so no payment for the drafting of laws. Let me just remind you that on 11.4.2003, respected colleague Saša Pece asked you in writing with a question from the Member State, specifically, whether Mr Krivic had received a fee for his professional work. How high is the alleged fee paid? On May 27th, you said, "Mag. In this group, Matevž Krivic prepared his views on how to solve the problem of deletions and prepared his draft amendment to the law and received 350,000 tolars for his work." I'm sorry, these are the facts recorded in the magnetogram. I'm on it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially from the United List and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia! Why are we arguing today? The President of the Republic of Slovenia made it clear and clear that at the previous extraordinary meeting, neither constitutionally nor otherwise, your actions were properly targeted. That's right! You, too, Mr President, have all the honour, at least on my part, for your leadership at the previous extraordinary session. You did the right thing. You ran it right. It wouldn't be necessary to have this extraordinary session today, but believe it or not. Human rights first. There's a lot of talk today about human rights. Human rights are also the right to express their opinions. Anyone's expressing their opinion. We oppose each other, we oppose each other. It's a waste of time. Next. The Constitutional Court has said that the referendum voted by this State Council is in force. He was voted by the National Assembly. The date was set. I don't even know why this extraordinary session is happening! Probably not because of us. Probably because at an extraordinary meeting last week despite the Constitutional Court, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, if we call it that, despite the will of the National Assembly, it was not the will of the Constitutional Court, not our own. I don't understand that. And today we're talking about the same thing. And now we're gonna reschedule the date. Why? In your speech, I think it was expressed by the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs, because you expected that there would now be another request for another referendum, for a substantive or systemic law. That was said. I already know from the Internal Policy Committee today that this proposal, which was put forward by the New Slovenia Coalition and the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be the greatest success if this proposal goes into constitutional judgment. There is no connection to say that you already know and therefore leave the referendum decision to the technical law because you know that there will be a request for a referendum on the system law if you continue to know that this system law, if only it will be able to come up with a constitutional judgment. I really don't understand who's making everybody out of who. It's a technical law referendum. The technical law was given on the basis of a regular session. We said it was bad, we asked you to change it, you didn't accept the amendments, the matter was perfectly clear. We said we'd give the referendum. And there was a referendum. Then you realized that there was no need for marriage at all, what you found to be necessary, what you found to be necessary, now all of a sudden, both marriages. And then even, I still claim, some elements of the technical law have been involved in the system law and now where are we? [[...]] No connection. One and the other are playing a mouse game with a cat. No, no, no. Come on, because we are a national assembly and a parliament, let us maintain the dignity, respectable colleagues and colleagues of the United List, the Liberal Democracy and also including me. The referendum will be expressed, the referendum should be, people should decide, and the last thing I expect from this country and, above all, the government is to respect the referendum will of the people. [[...]] Then we'll keep talking. Nothing else. I could say a lot more, but my time is running out, and my respectable colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, unfortunately, I also ate the prepared speech, but in good faith, let's listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u51	The minister wants to replicate briefly. Thank you, colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u52	So it doesn't matter in the air that someone's been telling the truth. I repeat the claim that the law we are talking about today is a system law, that neither Mr Krivic nor any of the experts have participated in this law, nor has anyone received a tolar for this product. The expert opinion drawn up by the expert group was also completely free of charge. Mr Krivic is not a member of this working group. Mr Krivic has made another product which has no connection with the law under consideration and has never been used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u53	Thank you very much. They now have the word of Comrade Drobnic, Dr Brejc and colleague Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to explain to the Minister that we are not dealing with the system law, but with the technical law or regulation establishing a referendum relating to the technical law. You were just talking about system law. This has nothing to do with it now. First, it is necessary to touch whether this law is necessary or unnecessary. A colleague before me has already caught up with this complication or this confusion about necessity and necessity. Of course, from the ruling coalition comes the need to adopt legislation, two laws to make it easier. It shall be subsequently established that decisions may be issued even without law. In fact, you suspend your own work when you file a law, a technical law. This technical law is passed through all the rules, and over all the rules of procedure, I have already warned about the definition of the law by way of a rapid procedure and about the fact that no financial implications have been identified in the law. When the referendum initiative comes, you say that citizens will not make any decisions. So, is the law empty? You're just messing with the National Assembly or with the citizens or what's on it now? Then we find that some of the content of the technical law comes into the system law and thus suspends the acts of the referendum, i.e. the inviolability of this law, which is the subject of the referendum initiative. Just playing. And then people really wonder what we're doing in here. You are simply going to play the game that you continue to draw, and we must follow it in terms of ensuring legality and legality, while at the same time we want the opposition to achieve possible irregularities but in an indisputable way. We have also proposed a constitutional law that could ensure this in an indisputable way and also bypass, I will say directly, the contested political decision of the Constitutional Court, the role of the Constitutional Court in the role of legislator and the suspension of the National Assembly. Needless to say, it was put into the teeth and took on this role. The Minister now ensures that decisions are passed through the law and that he does not need the law. A referendum is needed for citizens to decide on this law, which regulates certain rights. The opposition's initiative was to introduce an article that would more clearly record what the procedure would be and that the verification procedure would be. We insist that free will must be ensured, on the other hand the possibility of verification. We do not object to ensuring the return of rights, even retrogradely, but the procedure must be clear. Why are we opposed to making compulsory procedures in such a way that they can be seen back? Because it can also go to the detriment of those foreigners who have guaranteed their rights under other regulations and other countries. In fact, they would also attack their legitimate and legal rights, which they have exercised with citizenship or with permanent residence elsewhere. If this were to be established, this could also mean suspension of their rights. Such procedures shall carry out violence against the actual life to which such a provision would apply. This means to third parties, landlords, owners, who should then also challenge property rights or lease rights by way of retrograding decisions and repeal them. Can you imagine the consequences? Instead of discussing the possible war damage that Slovenia suffered when it came to the aggression of the Yugoslav Army against Slovenia, we are now discussing how Slovenia would provide money to some who did not listen to Slovenia or to become citizens or otherwise. Even so, it is possible to understand that the efforts of the ruling coalition are to make the most of their debt to those who even made fun of each other at the time of their independence or prior to their independence. In short, I do not agree to such attempts myself, but I have certainly been an instigator, and I am also an incentive, through an indisputable procedure, to ensure possible redress to those who have really suffered the consequences of the inadequate functioning of the administrative authorities when they have not decided on the administrative procedure or, if these beneficiaries have not been able to provide all the necessary documents due to the war situations in the former countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace has a word now, and a colleague of the Run after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u56	Thank you very much! Today I do not know which debate on the same or similar topic. And the debate shows that things are obviously not clear to Members and Members of the ruling coalition. Probably because of the chaos they created themselves, or you think it's a gym where you can make salads. In fact, one of the speakers spoke earlier about two referendums on the same issue. That's perfectly stupid, because it just doesn't hold. Or, it is not true that the referendum has no consequences - it has been said many times. What important consequences the referendum will have! Because if people have the opportunity and the opportunity to decide at the referendum, once all of this calvary that we are experiencing here will end, we will have a referendum where people will confirm or reject the law - I believe they will reject it - and thus open the way to a more normal solution to the problem that you have brought us together in the ruling coalition. People have, of course, often in recent months, been turning to us, I believe to you, and they say: why so many of these discussions? Why so many of these debates about so-called deleted? Why don't you talk about us who live here in Slovenia for so long and have endless problems. Why was there no extraordinary meeting due to economic problems? Why is it not an extraordinary meeting due to the big black dot that Slovenia received last week in the European Union regarding tax legislation and veterinaryity and so on? Why wasn't there an extraordinary meeting about 100,000 unemployed? Why, for example, is there not an extraordinary meeting on education that still smells like targeted education? Why is there not enough time to discuss youth and the possibility of scholarship and their potential for development? Why don't you discuss other decisions of the Constitutional Court when we've been waiting years and years for you to do this business, they tell us in the parliamentary group. Or, people say: at the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have to wait two years in the appeal procedure to resolve the appeal procedure. Or at the Ministry of Finance, on the tax administration, they say pay first and then complain; and, of course, we are waiting for that decision in the appeal procedure for a very long time. But these aren't the subjects they're supposed to tell me about. And after all this, I'm listening to people who called last week not to respect the Constitution, to respect it. These are such amazing mental salads, and I don't know what else that man can't take them seriously anymore. And, of course, today we have also heard that the opposition is responsible for everything. We are guilty, it is said, there are 22, 23, 24, 25, maybe there are up to 28 people, we are guilty of the 90 member assemblies being chaotic, not knowing how, once so, otherwise; last week we would not have taken a decision, and this week we would have done it, and so on. This reminds me of, you know, the previous country when Slovenia was reported to have broken up Yugoslavia. 8% of the population of Yugoslavia was responsible for the 22 million-dollar state falling apart. These are similar things. Well, not just that. In one answer today, I have heard words and logic that remind me of the famous speakers in the previous country, with the difference that the word 'internal enemy' has been replaced by the word 'opposition'. It is said, we, those who are here trying to tell the public something - to tell you all for free, obviously - are now guilty of all of these conflicts that have taken place at this time. Of course, the truth that we offer is different, and the public already recognize it, and this knowledge, I'm afraid, is already on your side. So what we want to say is that we're not the ones spreading rumors about hatred, intolerance and so on. We are the ones who have demanded only that we go from case to case, and we say that all the time. Therefore, it is not appropriate for us to stick to the method and words that you have used in the past. Those who have power in this country, for example, came before the elections in 2000 with autocratic conclusions with patriots and so on. But apparently, this darkness was exhausted, and they had to perform with another. And since this subject of so-called deleted has somehow turned against you, you've drawn on a day, I don't know, a mosque, but I guess you'll still be in this time of election. But that's not how it works! The referendum isn't just about mobilizing people, like someone said before. The fact is, a referendum is needed to finally resolve the chaos you created. To put an end to this and to address the vital issues of this country. But you, in the ruling coalition, obviously have no interest in that. You can only lead politics in conflict - create conflict and then declare those who disagree, xenophobic, impatient, hostile, and I don't know what else. And it's about human rights. Please look at the set or list of human rights in any document, stop or other document, and you will not find that there is a nationality as a human right, nor will you find that permanent residence is a human right. It's the right of the state to take something away or take something, and there's nothing to explain to her why. It's pure manipulation, what you're doing behind this pay phone here. In short, I think it's time for you to finally take this decision today, because we can't, because we're too few, so we'll give you the chance to make a decision in this mess that you've created, and just as they'll decide, so let it be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Dr. Brace. My friend Potts now has the floor, followed by his colleague Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Since it's the most recent untruth, let me quote just the following. [[the chapter on human rights, referred to in Article 32, freedom of movement]] : "Everyone has the right to move freely and choose his residence." It is also said that permanent residence is a human right. It's different, ma'am. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Can I talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u59	Please! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u60	Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, today you want to rediscover things on non-essential issues. Let's just say it's not about procedures, it's about content. Say it again, you don't want to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and you're doing everything you can to avoid doing it. This is your right, but have the courage to make this clear, not then to say that you respect the Constitution, constitutional decision and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u61	A colleague of Franz Kangler's has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I also, in principle, wanted to define myself until the very date of this decision, which is scheduled to be called for today. However, in the debate of some individual Members, particularly Members and Members of the United Nations, who have clearly and sharply pointed to the Slovenian People's Party, I have to define this issue slightly differently and approach my opinion, which I will now give. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is sad and shameful that last week there was no political will, wisdom and constitutionality in all those who did not respect what the Constitution requires us to adopt such a decree in the last week. What happened in three or four days, or in a week, that we would be able to adopt this decree and this proposal for a referendum today? What happened? Did it happen that things got so far that the president of the state, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, had to come forward and publicly warn some of them that they were in violation of the Constitution? Was this necessary for us today to have an extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly under point 1? Then, of course, my colleague Potrata, as always, laughs at me, because all those who think slightly differently than some who have been elected by the people during the United List, we are less thinking, less understanding, chauvinists and might even list, and the damage to the time spent on my debate to be stabbed with some views from the United List. It is true that Mr Potrč pointed out to the Slovenian People's Party that he is responsible for these signatures, for the 30 signatures collected in the National Assembly, that today we have this debate as we have it. No one in this country will prevent me from doing what the Constitution allows me to do, which allows me to have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which gives me the constitutional right to define myself as a Member, to secure my signature. No one!And if my colleague Potrić asked whether he had been with some of those who had been won on this side in the National Assembly for some time, he would like to solve this problem, along with some representatives from the LDS. Behind our backs, behind our backs - some we've secured signatures. In this way, respected colleagues and colleagues, this issue is not being solved. And there will be no compromise and there will be no fruitful debate and no result as if everyone wanted it in the National Assembly. It is true, however, that the whole issue has been cooked and smoked in this country by Mr Potrč and his comrade, Krivice, in principle. Comrade Krivic was responsible for this issue as a constitutional judge, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The professional diplomat, Mr Zlłbec, is often used in this national council to deal with various insults from Members who think differently, and I can not blame him today for falling to this level, including his fellow Members, who know him well how he behaves on some committees. [[...]] Above all, I am referring to the Foreign Policy Committee. And I think we're all clear. And, Comrade Zląbec, if you want to fall into my word, I will ask the Vice President to take my word away from me, and he will give you, if you want to tell the public more than I want to. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u63	Please proceed with the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u64	We have been given exactly the same story, my well-respected colleagues, in the electoral system. At that time, I should ask my colleague, with whom and in what way behind our backs, including with some other political February also from the right, to receive and forge an electoral system so that some of those who think otherwise would be pushed behind us would have no fruitful debate or fruitful results in this house. He wasn't here! And that way he won't be. You're not prepared to accept compromises, you're not. If colleague Potrč pushes us out of the coalition - go ahead and suggest to the Prime Minister, I am sure that the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, will be very pleased if colleague Potrce proposes to throw the Slovenian People's Party out of the coalition. He'll probably have principles of his credibility as well. I don't mind. You can change the coalition. It is true, however, that colleague Anderlich must also help to put out this fire because of his colleague Potztrzy and comrade Krivice. Only to what extent will this fire that occurred in this country be extinguished: in such a way that we will extinguish what we have in 1991 with all political means and otherwise choose and choose the constitution as we have and our independence. Are we going to exercise Slovenian autonomy in such a way that we need to show our muscles in the National Assembly and not take into account the Constitution, regulations, rules and regulations and everything else? It is likely that the President of the National Assembly will now be the biggest culprit for the previous extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly in this National Assembly on this subject. It's not! The only one who respected the Constitution, which was defined as dictated by the Constitution. Are you prepared to compromise or not? Does it really have to be the way you think you can be the only one who can solve this country's problem? Are you also prepared for some other compromises? And not just deleted, it's a matter of principle. And when we talk about human rights, we can talk in this Chamber about any other subject, about human rights for the last 20 years or 30 years in this country, about the ideology of some individuals, and I have no interest in talking about it today. It is only obvious that things in this country have become so uncompromising that everything that the majority or the left thinks is as uncompromising as a tank. Of course, it certainly bothers me, too, that some of my colleagues on my right all the time - and I am also sure that they speak deliberately, the government coalition. I'd like to emphasise, part of the government coalition. The Slovenian People's Party was here in principle and is also acting in principle. Let's keep them talking! We have supported, we have provided signatures and we are not sorry, we have done the right thing and people have to decide. And the referendum will have to be taken into account, the will of the people. Today, to claim that we do not respect human rights, that we do not respect the decision. We respect, but it does not matter how we write down the law, whether we throw everything in one basket, or whether it is necessary to treat individuals on a case-by-case basis. I have my own reason for signing up for that initiative. I do, and I have a big reason, but if I say it in this room, I would hurt a lot of people at home today; a lot of people who are in a wheelchair or someone else, but I don't want to talk about their names. I have my own reason as an MP, and I have the right to give my vote! I am here to challenge the violation of human rights, because I have ensured that the Slovenians and the Slovenians decide on this issue at the referendum, is the disgraceful act of individuals in this national assembly. Who thinks I'm violating human rights because I signed? Then let us change the constitution, let us change the rules of procedure, take all our rights and duties, let us turn this national assembly into a one-party system, and let us continue our work in our own way. Some of us who are too much in this House will go home, we know what else to do, and those who think you are right that only your powers can, but stay in this house and continue your work. However, it is likely that someone will come forward from Europe as soon as possible, given that we are at the very threshold and that the rules of the game are in force. Now, some of you, when you refer to human rights and to Europe and other similar things, none of us who support the referendum want to violate and harm human beings, dignity, human rights. We are aware that there has been injustice, some injustices need to be rectified; how this will happen must be recorded in the law in one way or another. It is necessary to enter into the law and it is necessary to have an individual approach to each individual who is entitled to such or other legal or other compensation. Dear colleagues, I think it's time to finish this story with the deleted as soon as possible. And that our work and our activities, both in the opposition and in the coalition, should be geared towards more substantively important things that Slovenia, as such, will be Slovenia, which will become a member of the European Union, which will vie both in the economic, cultural and economic fields, ensure a better future; without having a further violation of human rights on the street - without work, without unemployment. I do not want to mention again some of the latest events that have taken place, but it is true that Comrade Potrč has taken such quick care of these human rights that for those who have suffered for 10, 15 or 20 years and have been involved as victims of violations of certain human rights who are actually waiting for certain decisions: in fact, those who have remained on the threshold of poverty - no one takes into account that any alternative law in this national council would change such activity so that those who are waiting either in the house of justice or elsewhere could come to their rights who have been waiting for some years or decades for their rights. I do not want to ask my colleague Potræ what his position was on the Vatican agreement, or on denationalisation, or elsewhere. No! No! A personal definition is what it is. Therefore, stop and I think it is imperative that each partner, both in the coalition and in the opposition, has to be respected and given equal consideration: both in discussions and in coordination, and in further planning work both in the national assembly and elsewhere, the result will be quite clear. However, if you want to show your muscles in such a way that it is necessary to break the Constitution by voting, I certainly cannot and will never and will never agree with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u65	Mag. Zoran Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u66	Although I have been mentioned many times, Mr Kangler, just one sentence. For every time you mention me, I am grateful to you because in this way there is only a difference between what you say and the reasons I have in my deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. My friend Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u68	A well-respected choir. The reactions around the problem of the deleted have indeed exceeded all the limits of good taste and normal communication in some democratic society, in some open society. We are in 2004, in the historic year for Slovenia, because this year we are entering the European Union. This will certainly be recorded after 1991 as the most important milestone in the history of Slovenia. And we are now negotiating here in this place - I don't know at a third or any session - on how to regulate the Constitutional Court's decision. I must point out that the draft deleted is not a project of the ruling coalition, but a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court is simply in our country the guardian of constitutional order, the Ombudsman of human rights and freedoms, and its decision cannot be amended and deleted in any way, with no referendum. And for this reason, I would like to call on everyone to take up the challenges presented to us by the European Union today with the problems our citizens have this year and to take advantage of the opportunities offered to us by the European Union, which also very much respects human rights, we are now dealing with things behind us. We always come back - something to get back. If the Constitutional Court had ruled that the Demos government had deleted 18,000 people without any legal basis from the register of permanent residence in 1992, then we must now arrange this in as painless a way as possible. No one, I stress again, no referendum will change this problem! At the end of these people - we will become part of a European Union on 1 May where there is a European Court of Human Rights, and if someone is truly wronged, he will have to prove the injustice in court anyway. If he fails in our case, he will succeed in the European Court of Justice and Slovenia: for the first time, materially, because he will really have to pay compensation, and for the second, he will certainly prove to be a country that does not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court in 2004. Let me just remind you of one example, for example, when the debates are now - see, in Austria it is the same case that these bilingual inscriptions do not take account of the Constitutional Court's decision. What is our country's reaction, how is it that we are surprised that they do not take into account certain policies of these decisions of the Constitutional Court? How surprised we are and how unjust it seems to us. Let's see what we're doing alone! With various referendums - a referendum as the highest form of democratic expression of the people of the Republic of Slovenia - you are using the 30 you have signed - you are taking advantage of your feelings in fact in the election year. Again, I will say, be self-sustaining emotions and create some controversy in Slovenian public opinion and discord among Slovenian citizens. We will now have to come together this year, because we have joint projects waiting for us in the European Union, but not that we have now split Slovenia into two camps on the so-called deleted problem. Of course, I'm calling it all together again, it's really not normal anymore, it's crossed all the boundaries of good taste, and let's do something to solve this problem, as the Constitutional Court asks of us, but not to show this problem as the biggest problem that this country would have right now. There are many other problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u69	The word is from a colleague, Dr. Bayuk. After him, colleague Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I really didn't mean to come by today, but things are repeating that are proof that we are living in a head-on world. You know, finally, why are we having an extraordinary session? Yes, because something else needs to be done, as most of the great coalition did at the last meeting at the last regular session. But what do we hear today? We hear judgements and convictions: all this is the opposition's fault because it is not ready or capable of seeing the whole. These are literally the words of the representative, the leader of the United Nations Group of Members. Is it also that the opposition is unwilling to accept the fact that someone in this area may have been wronged in the past? Not one, not the other! Simply because the opposition immediately pointed to the problems you are willing to talk about today. Remember what the reaction was when we in Novi Slovenija reminded us that it is imperative that the rules of procedure be followed and that it be submitted to this national assembly before deciding on the technical law, which are the financial consequences. Today we are ready to hear how we will limit, anyway - of course, not as specific as the problem requires; but, however, you are speaking today as you were at the beginning. And the opposition has warned you about this, and today, allow yourself to say that we are not ready, capable of seeing the whole. But who warned back then if not the opposition? And second. How can we hear words today and look us in the eye and say, "You are not prepared to accept the fact that someone has been wronged." Have you really not read the proposal for a constitutional law tabled by Members? It was available, sir, you haven't read it, but now we've removed it. We took him away because we don't believe in your words anymore. You don't know what you're doing. Here you have a Minister, who is not only before this National Assembly, before the entire Slovenian public, hours and hours, saying how impossible it is to solve this matter at all if there is no legal basis. And today this same Mr. Minister with a professional face claims and signs the decisions. What good is it if we offer you things? But, Commissioner, you know very well that we have proposed! And we've proposed concrete solutions and they're still on the table, and if you're interested, you can rewrite them. And what did we say? That anyone who has been here who has lived here and has been wronged should be corrected and confessed to him from the day he came to some government that he came and said, "I want to settle this thing." And if it was unlawful for him - and his initiative was not respected - or he was required to do things that were humanly impossible to do, that it was a mistake and that it must be corrected and allocated to him. Not only that! In the discussions we also suggested that if you know any other injustices, we should come with a word on the day; but there were no suggestions. So, stop these things. No one can trust you anymore when it's obviously so different. The facts are different than yours. Of course, we are concerned and concerned that we have a third extraordinary session and how many public presentations and how many hours to solve this problem, but we have no answers to the key question for our common future. And while we draw attention to something and are subject to personal disqualification, such as when I asked the Prime Minister about our tax system, which is not family-friendly, the first thing he said was, "Of course, now you know nothing." Is that so? Last night, however, there was a programme and they debated this and it is clear that our legislation does not respect, tax legislation, family. That is: always disqualification, then maybe if public opinion turns around, we'll see how we fix it. Gentlemen, let's end this speech. Let's vote. The decision must be adopted and adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u71	Comrade Petan now has the floor, followed by Comrade Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Today, much has been said about respect for deadlines, the Constitution, and the abuse of the concept of human rights. The fact is that everyone who has power or is part of the government can interpret law and justice in his own way; the same is true of respect for the Constitution. He declares that today, of course, if there is good will in this matter, he respects the Constitution, but if there is no good will, not today, but in three days he can, they are unacceptable, and unfortunately they are some sort of mental pattern of another period that has already passed. I hope that today this third day has come and that we will once again have to respect the Constitution, the rule of law, and this is true for all, regardless of political affiliation. The main question that is being asked today is why the referendum and why it is already the third session on this subject today. This referendum is needed and necessary because of the immeasurable ignorance of the rulings of their own citizens and the deletion of rights to their own citizens at every turn. Today's meeting, as I have already mentioned, is the third on this subject - for more important topics of course there was no extraordinary meeting, but this was also called by the ruling majority. So today's session would not be if the ruling coalition did not, at any cost as it may be heard, even by force, if necessary, prevent citizens from expressing their will in the referendum, which means to build a mirror of their work. If the ruling majority did not want to head through the wall or, in other words, head against the will of their citizens and would not share their citizens into more equal terms, because they are subject to respect for the Constitution only when they deem it necessary and less valuable. And that's what this decision we're going to confirm - I hope it's confirmed. On the one hand, it is those who have never seen their country in Slovenia, their homelands that have not done anything for Slovenia, and because of them we can even break the constitution for a few days, disregard it, ignore it and even risk the constitutional crisis. While those, the majority, who defended Slovenia, have a 4% lower pension when it comes this far. The Secretary of State has not personally answered this question to me today how this is possible when I have shown him such a calculation by means of a document. The referendum is also needed because the government is making fun of its citizens and is willing to give money for those who have not done anything for this country, while in dominant national areas it is saving and there is no money for them. A brand-new, fresh example. We have marked a cultural holiday with great pride and enthusiasm, but a bitter drop of wormwood has sobered us to realize that in this year there are twice as much resources for culture as in recent years. And, unfortunately, we cannot say, this happy day of Slovenian culture, but the facade, as one of Slovenia's important cultural workers has expressed itself. The culture of a nation is not an area of any kind, but it is a national being, and it was, and will and will remain our defender in the struggle to preserve the Slovenians as a nation. However, for culture there is no money, this year it is twice as low as in recent periods, it is said to be less and less; for so-called deleted no price is too high to prevent this allocation of rights back, which is essentially a precedent in the legal practice that has become and remains the thumb of the policy of the ruling majority or at least that of the majority. Europe doesn't know that. And all the statements that echoes come from Europe on this subject are on very shaky feet. Our representatives write in European newspapers and some also write to the European Parliament's parliamentary groups and spit on Slovenia and spread the facts and then declare that the problem is already being discussed and written across Europe and the European Union. You, Your Honor, speak and write and then scare the citizens, the ones you have for the second class - we also have documents about this - and for these citizens, you say - which of course you fear - that they do not understand the question, that they will not understand and that therefore the referendum is not necessary because they will not be able to make the right decisions and who, of course, they would like to drive the thirsty through the water. On the other hand, we would like to impose all their financial obligations on them by means of so-called deletions. Why would we be good? That is why the referendum must be, because those who grant the right back and did not in fact want it, would be given without any effort, for our citizens, but if they want to apply and run for certain funds, they should have a bunch of documentation, a mountain of documentation, and then everything is not all right. And for every single thing, you have to have a license that you get against payment. Thus, we are dual types of citizens: one who would give them everything for free back and sometimes did not want it, and for our citizens a lot of documentation. And let someone else say that we are not citizens of two ranks! And today is certainly the time to adopt this decree so that there will be no further extraordinary session, which, of course, you have convened, not the opposition - so there will be no mistakes. This must be accepted and respected by the Constitution and our legal order. This respect is needed primarily because of the legitimate rights of Slovenian citizens. And to understand each other; even the 180,000 who lived in Slovenia and were not Slovenians, they were able to arrange everything and they arranged and actually saw Slovenia as their country. This is mainly for those who pay taxes, who also defend their country if necessary, and who have Slovenia for their country. This calls for respect for the Constitution and the rule of law, and we must also confirm this referendum decision. For all this, it is necessary to adopt today's decision and allow people to decide at the referendum, which will not be meaningless, but is still important and will certainly have consequences. That is why, of course, I will also support this decree today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. A colleague of Juri, a colleague of Kramberger, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u74	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. The supplementary decisions are already going out, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision has begun, the evidence once again that the technical law, as the Constitutional Court is telling us, is not necessary, we will go to a referendum on a law that is not necessary, and the referendum is unnecessary, but we cannot prevent it. I will do the same for the first time and for the second time: I will not vote against the decree, but I will also help you not to write it down. This is your referendum. You yourself have told us what it's for. It serves to attempt the outcome you anticipate to be delegimate, and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Disqualify the government. [[...]] From this address, I'm surprised that there's also a coalition human client here. You announced that you would also like the early elections, the referendum and the elections to be held together, and it's good that voters know where we're going. Otherwise, as I have already said, I will not oppose him, I will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. My friend Kramberger now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In short, I would like to say that this decree on the referendum, as well as our parliamentary group, which has been on the table ever since we have discussed this issue here in the National Assembly, will endeavour to resolve the matter in a comprehensive manner in order to resolve it in one marriage, not in two, not in two, as is the case now. See, since this National Assembly has been talking about the problem of deleted, in all the media, both in print and in electronic - we always hear how the Slovenian state has become, how Slovenian citizens and citizens have become xenophobic, how we oppose different ones. Even in the weather, some TV houses talk about these things -- that's not true. If we had listened here to our proposal, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, we would have solved this issue long ago, we would have solved it in its entirety. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But now we're gonna have to have a referendum and then we're gonna be back on track when the referendum is over, and then we're gonna have to work this thing out again. [[...]] And I'm sure it won't be any different than the constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u77	My colleague Jakič has the floor and after him a colleague of Dr. Bernik's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Former fellow Member Ivo Hvalica introduced the word "non-hygienic" into the political vocabulary. He usually tried to characterize acts, but above all the words of those who conceal the truth to the public are misleading, misleading, or lying to the public. Lies and untruths, which continue to be repeated today, are possible and powerful weapons of manipulation in the hands of, I believe, weak politicians, formerly politicians, in order to achieve their contiguous goals. But it's unhygienic. And I am not surprised that Mr. Praiser has stepped out of the party led by such a man. What persists in this hall? Dr. Brace says why wasn't there an extraordinary meeting for 100,000 unemployed, scholarships, economy? Because no one has called for an ex-legislative referendum. Because we've worked them through the law across the street. Mr Janša says, for two years we are waiting for administrative proceedings and for five years in the courts - deleted immediately. I don't know how Janša's calculated since 1992, but for me, "that" means 12 years, not immediately. What else is repeated? They were or were generous, the 18,305 ugly did not want citizenship. Why? Because they speculated, the war profiteers, the criminals and the insurrection that should be transported in a food wagon to the south. Now they want citizenship and high damages, billions to be paid by generations of Slovenes and Slovenians. Well, let's repeat the truth. Two hundred thousand foreigners with permanent residence of non-Slovenian nationality from the former republics of Yugoslavia were offered citizenship. 170,000 have decided that way, and this citizenship has taken place. 11,000 left the country, the remaining 18.305, which decided to retain its citizenship - Macedonian, Serbian, Bosnian, if you want Croatia - and maintain the status of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia with a permanent residence. But during the night they were deprived of their rights, and this is the right of the holder of a permanent residence. And, of course, no one in the rule of law can be deprived of the rights already acquired, especially without a written decision with the possibility of a complaint and without a clear legal basis, as this has happened to the deleted. What else is repeated? That they were opponents of independence - where is the evidence for this? Even if they were political opponents of independence! In the legal state of the individual's political positions, there can be no reason to delete from the register of permanent residences, I do not understand whether we have learned anything from the demonstrations about the process against the four - freedom of speech, opinion. In the country of law, as I said, it is not possible for political views to be deleted from the register. Look, I said last time, democracy, human rights and civil liberties, whose rule of law is part of an inseparable system, but not once again, I stress "a la carte" are not "a la carte" from which you take what you agree at a certain point. The enjoyment of human rights cannot depend on the outcome of the referendum - Mr Kangler cannot be of this, because we cannot go to the referendum with the rights we have acquired, which are universal, but also with those we have invented. If there's a referendum tomorrow on yours and my salary, I'm sure the people at the referendum will decide that we and the other 88 colleagues don't deserve that salary. Black is our right to be paid for our jobs. Just as we cannot go to the referendum and impose the death penalty, despite being shaken by many crimes - because this civilization, whose part we want to be, and especially to join it with May 1st, this civilization has come to some realization that there are standards that cannot or cannot go back. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We're talking about public research. Sometimes it may be possible to listen to those who have signed up for legal and ethical responsibility in the Republic of Slovenia who say that the enjoyment of human rights cannot depend on the outcome of the referendum, the political parties and political actors. They therefore call for a solution to the problem of deleted as soon as possible and in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. And on this list, dear colleagues and colleagues, in addition to both the Rectors of Universities, if you have read, there is one large, large proportion of people who represent political - they cannot be brought under an ideological umbrella. And that's why sometimes we would follow not only public research, but people who signed their name and called us for judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick's colleague now has the floor. He'll be given the word of his colleague Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! We have been talking about this matter for a long time, and I think that the thing, the deleted affair, will come to the analies of legal history and also probably to political schools. Perhaps young ones will then learn something that we do not want to be able to solve if it is good will. When I observe all these developments, I recall the first meeting when Mr Minister introduced us a technical law and talked about how this law should be adopted that there is no other possibility that the Constitutional Court would require us to have a substantive law coming later, etc., etc. And he assured us that there can be no compensation here. Of course, it soon turned out to be impersonal and misleading. Then another manipulation began. Suddenly we became opponents of the Constitutional Court against human rights, etc. Of course, after all this, there was a political game that tried to defend the procedures the government had foreseen, because we saw if the government wanted to draft this law, as required by the Constitutional Commission, it would be easy to do so, especially with the expensive and many lawyers you could hire. And that didn't happen, and now we're back at the starting point. I hope that this referendum will be adopted and from there forward, all the crying over the costs, all of this - are cat tears. Come just look at some items in our budget, like the former president of the country and so on. Everything is full of things that we have not been able to bring about in this consideration of the account. Good. You talk about this and, in particular, two parties, especially the United List and the Liberal Democrats, talk about respect for human rights as if it were a symbol on your altar to be honored. But remember that human rights existed back in 1941, they existed during the period of your revolution, they existed in 1945, and they existed until today. Yeah, where were you and your ancestors, where were you? It would be interesting to know how much was written about human rights. Look at the printing books your historians have written, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u81	Peace. There's no dispute in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u82	I'm talking. The ones you were born at the time or later. Your ancestors have done this, because now you've been living since the revolution, you haven't been fooling around. Please. [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u83	Please, there's no dispute in the bench. You have the floor. Stick to the subject. Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u84	Mr. President. I have something to say, and if they have anything to say, please just say it. We've wanted to hear more than once about your human rights and your sentimentality for them. All right, let's do what he wants. You have a lot to learn, a lot to fix. In fact, when I said that human rights were also in 1941 and 1945. - it doesn't mean anything to you, like you, your ex-client killed one group of cats or dogs and so on and so on and for these probably someone would've called because we have animal societies and so on. For what happened then and you kept quiet for so long, there were no human rights. I am reminding you that the last word on this matter has not yet been said and will once be. And what will be said is where this world of these dead, for whom you have adopted such a cheap law for the state and so shameful for you. On the other hand, we have also seen recent developments in European and American printing of various stories, as well as in Slovenia, where there is talk - well, here is the new word - administrative genocide. And somewhere he says, "In Bosnia the fascists walked around with guns, with terrible guns, and feared. But Slovenia has done the same with paper; it is said, with the paper that would make it necessary for these people to be deprived of their citizenship or whatever it is." Yeah, look, now I don't know who you're aiming for. I'm sure it also says here that some of the parties are xenophobic, that they're extreme nationalists, that they're fascists and so on. Thank you very much! I think we can all share what you're saying with Slovenia. And I think if there's any more honesty in us and there's a personal feeling that we're going to think about it and try to think about those victims who also had human rights, you don't admit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u85	Thank you very much. He now has the word of his colleague Tanko, his colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Perhaps at first a brief comment from this very dynamic performance by Jakič. In the rule of law, it may not be possible to lose or delete political views, but in this legal country or in one earlier country it was very difficult to obtain or exercise the right to work because of political views; such cases were also the case. First of all, in the introduction, I might suggest that all those who are discussing this topic today first read your performances, which you had both at today's session, which is the third, as well as at meetings of working bodies that were not very few. So you might see where your own statements cut you and do not match what you are saying today. We're working today for work. This national assembly should have decided on this decision, on the date of the referendum, a week ago, but your majority had achieved that this had not happened. And things are spinning needlessly, as they have done so many times, and on the other hand many other things, such as European legislation and other laws that need to be urgently adopted, remain in stock. The fact is that the government has produced a very precise scenario for the project's implementation deleted and has decided to carry out the project blindly or abusively. It is so beautiful that it paves the way with technical law, complements it with a system law, but if it does not work, in combination with or through the issuance of decisions just like that, directly as you have now done in this part after these circuses. In short, the decision was clear, the technology was studied, and the implementation was clearly clear anyway. The fact is that this government has very strong institutional support, that it is also a strong media support, which accuses this weak opposition of all indecencies, of all incompetences and of all incompetences that have occurred in the government and also all its supporters in the National Assembly in solving these and other stories. I wonder how it is possible that such shocks and stresses occur in our society, where a government coalition with almost two-thirds fails to implement even a trivial procedure for the adoption of the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. It seems that something is very wrong to stop everything because of some kind of opposition that is not supposed to feel like it at all, I think, cynically, one of the very important former politicians of this country has said. In fact, the opposition has been very actively involved in the adoption of this and also of the next law in this area. It proposed amendments and amendments, but all of this was gross disregard and ignored and specifically included an amendment to verify each role individually. But like so many times, you didn't agree to that either. In short, this follows the fact that you are not so interested in those who have actually suffered the injustice and who can also prove and enforce it in the proceedings - and we also support it - but you are particularly interested in those who have knowingly waived this right, who are still looking at it higher today, consider it uncivilised and who will not be able to prove that our country has made a mistake in the administrative process in their case, because they themselves have left that country more or less. When there was a lot of confusion in these proceedings, the great coalition tried to sum up a lot of things from the opposition, a lot of proposals to adopt and incorporate them into its proposals, but it was too late for these things, and you tried to attract us first, blackmail us later, and you ended up using public attacks, that we were not for any serious and creative debate in this area. But you only came to that point when all the hands had already expired more or less. Like the opposition, the coalition has served proceedings before the Constitutional Court, but unlike the opposition, you have not been successful in these proceedings. And it seems you don't know how to endure these defeats. And you showed me something else! You also interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court in your own way and tailor them to your own measure. It didn't happen in this case for the first time, but I hope it happened the last time. When the Constitutional Court rejected your request to review the constitutionality of the referendum question, you were dead coldly ignored the request that the National Assembly set a new date for the call for a subsequent referendum. 2.2. You voted against it peacefully. And this was a scandalous act and also for most citizens - or a very large majority of citizens - of this country is also an inexplicable act. This is a scandal for everyone in the National Assembly, especially for those in these houses who rely on constitutional and legal order. And some of you like to boast that you're even lawyers. I wonder what kind of mirror we gave to this country and the citizens of this country, many of them have been waiting in the courts for many years. Unsolved cases are hundreds of thousands, and the rights of these citizens, there, in the courts are settled, aged or failing. And for our citizens, these are the backlogs of the rule. All that you have done is to destroy the constitutional order and the rule of law, to give a sense of emergency, to create a revolutionary state when all the resources are likely to be available to achieve these objectives. There is a disaster in view, since it is already as simple a matter as setting the date of the referendum invitation to tender, you need twice as long as it is legal. So you need a double dose. And how long do you then need for any more demanding material, such as legislation on income, VAT, student nutrition or anything else? I support the referendum because I know that people knew in the elections between the 11 Members in their constituency to choose the right one, and I also know that they will now be able to decide whether they will vote in favour or against. Because I'm sure people know this very well, that they understand this subject well, and they know what it is. In short, I'll support the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Comrade Companion is not in the hall. Comrade Kavčič - he is also not present. Sorry, I was looking over you. You have the floor, Comrade Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u88	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, two million of us are, to be honest, two million. And if someone looks at us from the outside, they probably can't wonder how much negative energy and hatred can be concentrated in this relatively small nation, this hatred and negative energy, thanks to the opposition, is enough, probably, a ten million-dollar nation. [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you for the voices of enthusiasm, I knew you'd find yourself properly addressed. But let's try to stay on this call; let's see, there's two million of us. Such a smallness has its advantages, has its weaknesses and instead of working in Slovenia to take advantage of the advantages that I have as a small, flexible nation, we face from the problem to the problem. Of course, it's not true that the disaster is coming, we need to look at our macroeconomic indicators, things are going positive. There are problems, there are serious problems, there are serious problems, such as in all European countries, but much has been done in this period. But there's a specific thing happening to us, and maybe this story is useful from one point of view. She made it very clear what we were able to do from the Institute of Referendum, from an institute that should be one of the purest, most indisputable instruments of democracy. In Slovenia, we abused him because of his shortcomings and because of the non-stateliness of those who have no concerns. As a rule, we are faced with the fact that in a very specific question, applicants reach a high degree of motivation in a narrow group, of course they can vote in a referendum virtually anything. Let's look at those referendums -- let's say the most famous. If we look at the size of this famous law on trade participation, how many votes were there for, how many electorate calves, for example, that good 12% of Slovenians closed down trade. There are several of these referendums and they can continue to be abused. I therefore call on those who have found in this form their promotion to consider for a moment, because of the fact that Slovenia's national interests are not well represented. This particular issue of deleted is, of course, an issue that we must resolve in the interest of the Slovenians, not in the interest of some of those speculators who are constantly drifting by day, in the interest of the Slovenians, we must resolve this issue in such a way that no authority will ever think that any group of citizens, without proper procedure, can move from one list to another. That's what this is about. Today, there are those who have a problem because the state has taken their permanent residence away from them with a move, I stress that this is not a question of citizenship at all, it is an issue of unfair, unconstitutional deprivation of permanent residence, and we must resolve this. If we don't solve this, it will be resolved by an international institution. That is why, personally, I will also be in the legalistic position today, I will not oppose the adoption of this decision, even though I think this path is bad, and I call on my fellow opposition colleagues to try to take a more state-of-the-art stance and not to think so much about the use of the referendum institute in the future, because we need it for more important decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u89	A colleague of Sok, a colleague of Jerovšek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! All these accusations at the expense of the opposition, if the opposition is guilty of being erased, I have heard that the opposition is concerned with respect for human rights and the Constitution only if it is of personal benefit. All this, of course, is just talking. So, you're moving away from the fact that there's even been an extraordinary session today. You don't discuss it. You're discussing everything you can. However, an extraordinary session took place today because on February 2nd you did not want to respect the Constitution and the law and to legislate what the law and the constitution imposed. You would rather have accused the President of Parliament if the opposition were to lead the meeting, but the President did not do anything else than lead the session as the Rules of Procedure dictated. So, you will find it difficult for the opposition, if you blame it - with this opposition so small - you will find it difficult to frame it at this time, that it is to blame for today's extraordinary session and also, of course, that this meeting costs something. You will also find it difficult to accuse her of all the costs incurred by this Parliament's decision as it is decided. Where's the original sin? On one occasion, the president, former Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšek, said that the coalition had one of the best coalition treaties signed by any coalition in Europe. That's what I heard on TV. I think then my colleague Janš told me that if it was so good, they should start exporting it as an export article. But this coalition treaty states, inter alia, that the ruling coalition will not comply with any proposal by the opposition, no amendment. So you have committed all coalition parties not to respect the opposition's proposals and, of course, you are also acting in accordance with this coalition treaty and you are acting in such a way and therefore stubbornly insisting on how this technical law is needed, how it cannot be resolved without this law. Previously, you were jumping in one direction, and now you're all streaming in the other direction, and you're all saying that this marriage is not necessary and that this is why the referendum will be pointless and similar. So if the Slovenes and the Slovenians believe that, it's hard to predict. I hope not, of course, because our citizens and citizens after all this talk, which is repeated indefinitely - and at least it looks like it will happen again, because you are not prepared for the only possible solution, this is a solution to the constitutional law. Our citizens understand that we are actually talking about something that is not a real topic, because they were never Slovenian citizens. It is quite clear that these were citizens of other republics, of all other republics, and that in the territory of Slovenia they carried out central Yugoslav - many of these - central Yugoslav authorities, first the federal and later Milosevic. Then it all came to pass that Yugoslavia has fallen apart and Slovenia has offered them a broad range of opportunities to declare themselves and become Slovenian citizens. Most of them did, and some did not believe that Slovenia would become a single country until February 25, 1992, and even less believed that we would ever become members of the European Union. But now that all this is a fact, it's been a bit of a rush. And since these are formerly first-class Yugoslavs, our Communist parties, Communist parties, would like to include this frame in their structure, especially now that you find that public research does not show you as well as it may look like it is. The point is that the balance sheet of these twelve years of LDS rule is devastating, I hope. So you will leave a debt of EUR 13 billion with your government, and that is something that will have to be repaid by many generations. And because the problems in this area are big because there are many jobs at risk because there are more and more affairs in the residential area, about SIB, I don't know, now the Orion affair is known again and so on, then you're better off blurring that fact and that we're all in this country talking about something that employs people who don't see what the real problems are in this country. So, the real problems are somewhere else. We should now actively discuss tax legislation, discuss how Slovenians will join the European Union, what we will do in those areas that are still missing, and so on. So these would be real themes, not what we are discussing for the third time in an extraordinary session. And I agree with all those who say we should end this subject. However, we can conclude - as we have done many times and the professional public has found - only one way; you do not want to do this and continue to repeat and renew the same story, while at the same time blaming the opposition for everything you have done wrong. I am very pleased that you have now experienced some kind of evolution in this Slovenian democratic deficit, that you have learned in a few days that you have made a mistake in deciding on the decision and that you are ready to correct this mistake today. However, I am very concerned by some debates in this direction that the possibility of a referendum should be abolished or reduced in some way, that it is necessary, I do not know, to change people rather than discuss how Parliament should change and how it should start to work so that all these referendums do not occur. For the last time, I voted in favour, but today, if it is not necessary, I will not vote, but I will allow the mistake you made to be corrected by yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u91	Before I give the floor to my colleague Jerovšek, let me just say this, because several debaters have pointed out the importance of other topics. It is expected that on Friday the College will set out a plan for the work of the National Assembly on European themes by 1 May, and this will be very much so that there will be plenty of opportunities to discuss these issues. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! It is almost unbelievable that at 2 million Slovenians are sitting in the government coalition - without the Slovenian People's Party, which I have to exempt in this matter - so many people who, on this subject, at the referendum, are so far moving, scheming and encountering political cynicism as we have met from these benches today. First of all, you're always talking about a pointless referendum, and even though recognized eminent lawyers have said that it's unacceptable to say that the referendum is pointless. In today's Evening, look at what Dr. Lutz at the University of Political Science Institute in Bern said, although he probably asked if he would speak negatively about the referendums, he said: "Not if you ask people if they are satisfied with direct democracy in Switzerland, they answer you firmly. You'll find it hard to find someone who would say that referendum dilemmas are too difficult." And then on the question, what about the Constitutional Court: "Well, what people decide is over the Constitutional Court. I know that in some countries the constitutionality of the referendum is decided by the Constitutional Court, but not by Switzerland, where there is a referendum on the Constitution." The Jesuits are slightly different in us, but in the country where there are the most referendums, they do not mock the referendum as we hear from your mouth. Look, and today it was said by your colleague: "...in spite of an offer to annul the marriage without a referendum, you did not accept this offer." Yeah, how could something like that happen? You had the opportunity and the offer of the state council when voting on the veto, and let us recall the humiliating, arrogant behaviour. At the time, you had this opportunity, we all had it together, and you mocked it arrogantly, and now you're throwing that obvious thing on our side, which is not true. Then a colleague of these types said that "we create a conflict between Slovenian citizens". Do we create discord? You have been referring for the third time to this topic by delaying the referendum decision on this subject for several months and trying to create a conflict between Slovenian citizens. See how we would create discord when we only understand over 90% of the Slovenians who stand firm here are in the same positions with us, that we need to protect some of the values arising from Slovenian independence. And you want to break apart the plebiscite unity of Slovenians who are plebiscitely united on this subject. You're the one who wants to tear this apart. And then an even more intolerable and more cynical thesis, you re-energize patriotic feelings. Is it possible to make even more fun? I don't know if it's allowed to have patriotic feelings in this country? Does 90% of Slovenian citizens have legitimate patriotic feelings? And to encourage patriotic feelings, I think this country is always justified and allowed. And see, in this violation of the constitution that you have allowed yourself in the previous sitting, and in violation of the laws, a man hesitates to ask or to exclaim with the vice-president of your party, who wrote last Wednesday: "Oy, Tone!".. He was referring to your party president, he was vice president of the party, and he was vice president years ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u93	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u94	And, of course, with this attitude towards the constitution, to the laws really shout "Oy, Tone to her, what's going on with your client, with your government!" [[...]] How is it possible that the client is so confused that after Mr Drnovska has left? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u95	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u96	This remains a party of extremists to suddenly turn into extremists, people who have acted relatively moderately - and at the previous session we know - a spell against the constitution. [[...]] In order for the gentlemen of these parties to speak at a press conference, it is necessary to really stop this story, if not by force, at all costs, because Slovenia must be protected from the most deserving independent. What was meant here, I asked Mr Rob in that question. I am sorry he did not respond like Mr Sponik, but it would be very necessary. Who are you going to arrest in this country with force? But are you going to suspend the constitution? We should get those answers as soon as possible. However, despite such violations of the Constitution and the legality of the previous meeting, it had some positive consequences - that people had seen. Many have watched this session, as we see from the reactions in the Echoes, and have seen how humiliatingly you spoke about the referendum, if the referendum did not oblige you not to be considered. They saw how this part of the coalition was getting into trouble, not citing extraordinary meetings about those who were torturing people, about thousands of unemployed people, about those who lost their jobs and didn't get any compensation. People saw last week how the party had practically turned against the president of the National Assembly; how they had humiliated him and tried to break him. In fact, Mr. President, you've been made politically deleted, you've been classified as a deleted category. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u97	Please, Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u98	Yeah, I have to find out that's true. Unfortunately, there was no dignity to the institutions of this country in the past, even to you, Mr President. And at this meeting, people were able to see how many light-years a party of Mr President, her base, away from democratic principles, and how dogmatic her daily practice is. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please calm them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u99	You have the floor, but there is a debate on the proposal for a decision, not everything else. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u100	Mr. Anderlich, I voted in favour. But I would like to stress, and I have the right to see how you have treated this decision, what was the relationship, why we have been sitting in this Chamber for the third time and discussing this issue. Like I said, today we have to accept this. Otherwise, delaying a referendum that has lasted for several months has caused tremendous damage to this country. Nevertheless, I hope that the experience gained with this may prevent some political will in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u101	Now they have the word, fellow mags. Kramberger first, then Comrade Kremjar. You're giving up, okay? Comrade Kremjar, then it's your turn. He's been followed by a colleague of Peterle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u102	Thank you very much, President. So if we were all a little ashamed together, today's meeting would take about 15 minutes at this point - or 20 minutes to tell the representatives of the parliamentary groups, which they have also done, why we didn't do it at the previous meeting, support April 4 as a date for the referendum and we should end, go and discuss item 2 of the agenda if we were a little ashamed, but we are not. For the past three hours, we've been sniffing at each other's table, accusing them, crying about who's guilty, stealing people's time, confusing them, not knowing what they're going to vote on, saying in advance that we're going to get something else through these answers, etc. - One and the other. And, my friend Rupar, who thinks of something to say, will say when he gets the word, I suppose, and I'm quiet all the time when other colleagues are talking, at least I'm trying to be quiet. However, there are some facts, given that we are all discussing them, I will also have to say. The question of referendum is very clear and this referendum question is: Are you in favour of implementing the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of 25.11.2003? This is a referendum question and people in this country will leave on April 4th, I suppose we will accept it, to the electorate and will answer that question and will say: yes or no - as it will be at the referendum. If they say yes, it means that they responded positively; if they say no, they also know what it means. And that won't mean anything else. For nothing we're talking about, for nothing you're talking about, for nothing we're all talking about, it'll only mean that, everything else is a political speculation of one side, the other side, the third party. And nothing else, and it can't be different. And that's why, of course, all we're doing here right now is simply "fight" the opposition and positions and deceiving people. And there's something else. It's a theater. The lights are on, the cameras are on, the people in the comfort of their homes are sitting and watching us, watching bad players because good players are in the theaters, but we are bad players who are playing bad games and who are not playing anything else, like taking people in the wrong direction, because they trust us because we are chosen to do something for their purpose and therefore they trust us and so we can be ashamed to take them somewhere else, all of us can be ashamed. We can also be ashamed of how we behave, how we behave in this temple of democracy. That we don't have so much morale, that we don't have so much, I'm going to say, some general sense of behavior. We behave worse than in the market or in the inn many times, not talking about how many untruths are said and how many inventions come through these microphones to the ears of people who listen to us. I'm sorry. I'm ashamed of all the things we do. I'm gonna back this thing today. I'm not gonna explain why we did this the last time. I think it was a mistake, and that I was wrong, that we wanted to be rational, we wanted -- it was an idea -- to be rational. Obviously it was - and it should not cloud our sense that we want to be rational, but we should do as the law stipulates. And I'm ashamed of doing that, too. Of course, the decree will be supported, the decree has to be supported or the date has to be supported, and I therefore think that, of course, we could end the story slowly and actually devote ourselves to many, many of the problems we have and will have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u103	The word is from a colleague of Peterle, who is not in the hall. Then I give my word to my colleague Pukšić, my colleague Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The meeting today reads as follows: "On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of paragraph 60. Articles." I think there's been a mistake. A mistake because, of course, Slovenian Constitution and Slovenian legislation have no longer been in force for some time. But the call for a meeting should read: "On the basis of Tonet Anderlich, Mirana Runcha and Ivan Kebrič, we are calling a meeting." So, this sowing is convened on the basis of those who have stepped over the thresholds that have stepped over the constitution. Since someone has spoken before me that it is actually all a game to come between Slovenian citizens and citizens when we receive votes and then something promises then it's just a game, I'm afraid it's a really planned game, which, of course, obscures everything else and all the problems we should be dealing with in this country. Who has the most responsibility for this? Clearly, the one who formed the government and has the greatest power means that it has the majority. Well, the one who has the majority has, as long as the constitution is in force, in accordance with the laws, the possibility of realizing this is also possible. Of course, there is a Slovenian nation, a Slovenian people who decide and in accordance with the Constitution, but in Article 3, this is an option. If someone who has been chosen from the nation takes this opportunity away from him, I am personally deeply convinced that this nation will, of course, give that opportunity to the one who once gave it to him, too. One of the previous debaters said - she asked if we were doing the right thing. I think so: we could answer this question - so, to this question whether we are doing the right thing, only Slovenians and Slovenians will answer it. It would be best to respond by calling for a referendum on 4 April, as in accordance with the Constitution, citizens can answer - that is to say, by elections. I am sure that most of the government coalition would want to change Slovenians and Slovenians, but Slovenians and Slovenians, I believe they will replace this government coalition. Well, let's see how some of these things are seen from a different perspective if you step outside our borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Recently or recently, one of the European countries in its time has actually expelled about 26,000 people from the country for reasons that they did not have certain documents and that is regulated, as it must be. Well, this country also appeared on Friday an article entitled 'European candidate Slovenia Kicks Foreigners'. But just a few of the points in this article: "Almost 18,000 Serbs and Bosnians, born and raised in the then Yugoslav Republic of Slovenia, have been erased from the computer record." Of course we know that's not true. After: "After the fall of Yugoslavia in 1992, when Slovenia became an independent state, these people, unfortunately, became foreigners in their country overnight." Well, of course, these data also point to knowledge of Slovenia, knowledge of Slovenian history, not only to knowledge of certain legislation or segments. Well, look what's actually pretty scary. Among other things, this article states: “Almost all those who have been erased have lost their jobs, some have even committed suicide among them.” Tell me if this really happened. But I do know personal cases that have committed suicide because of the SIB Bank. I know - because of the SIB Bank! "A lot of them died because they were denied emergency medical care." Tell me, who in this country died so they didn't get emergency medical attention? "In the maternity ward, these people could only see their newborn when they proved that they paid the cost of labor. Slovenian deleted thus became a lower class group." And, of course, it goes on to say, instead, "there is a referendum that has been launched by the ultranationalist opposition so far with great success." Colleagues and colleagues! You'll know who the socialist international sends letters to, who writes to them, and who pawns them with such lies. These are lies about the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that these lies will be published in a very read journal by a European country, of course also this country, which is our country, clearly and loudly. According to the letters, according to everything else we're getting, and even today, during this session we got some messages -- and I got them myself -- I'm only going to read you one that came in a few minutes ago. "You can't believe it! What about the others deleted: PCPs, freight forwarders, unemployed, deleted by the National Assembly with a few words written in the law. They took away our constitutional right, which is called the constitutional right to work. With this, thousands of people have fallen into despair. Why didn't they adopt a technical law for us?" These are the bigger problems, those are the more serious problems that we unfortunately do not solve in this country. And so we citizens of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians have actually said or ordered: say in this House at least that Slovenia belongs to Slovenians and Slovenians and also to those citizens who are of course loyal to this country who respect these laws. But those who gave up and went into the convoy should remain where they went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u105	I will give my word first to colleague Ana Maria Tisovic, who gives up the word, then has the word of colleague Dorian Marshic. Comrade Marshich, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u106	I'll be brief. A respected predecessor, all that you have just said and listed, is not only our newspapers, but also press agencies all over the world. Not because I would give them any information, but simply because they know something about democracy, about how the Constitution is respected, also about how the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected, and they also know why and why the referendum is respected, and especially why not when it comes to human rights. Surely no one gives them this information, but surely these views have been found both in the press agencies and in the newspapers mainly because they watch very closely what is happening in Slovenia. And they know exactly who the ultraleaf right-wing man is, and above all, they know very well what injustices have occurred in Slovenia in these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u107	First of all, colleague Maja Zupan, then, if I understand correctly, colleague Juban. First, my colleague Maja Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is quite clear that the National Assembly must fulfil its constitutional and legal obligations. There's no excuse, colleagues and colleagues, that you didn't do it a week ago, at a time when the deadline was set. This is a poor example for citizens and citizens, who are bound by laws to respect regulations, and you are acting like spoiled children who have already grown over their parents. The delay, although for objective reasons, may also mean a loss of rights for citizens and citizens; you, your respectable colleagues and colleagues in the ruling coalition, are not even embarrassed by your will, let alone to try to apologize to them. Such a violation is indicative of the state of the spirit in our Parliament, where, in great concern for human rights, you can afford so much self-poverty. For the second time, I will vote in favour of the ruling, with the hope that today we will adopt a date for the call for an ex-legislative referendum. This tells us our situation, because as legislators we are first called to respect the Constitution and the laws, everything else is irrelevant at this point. Will you be able to do so despite the hatred and negative energy you say you are experiencing. Whoever sows the wind, reaps the storm, a real old Slovenian proverb. But hatred doesn't come from us. [[...]] [[The feedback from the bench.]] We love our people, but the fact is that you're making us sit down again at an extraordinary meeting and that you're making us a deleted pop theme that doesn't look like it's over and that sheds light on the problems that still concern our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much, colleague. Now I give my word to my colleague Mamić, then to my colleague Janša, my colleague Širci and so on. Sooner than in an hour, we'll decide on the decision. Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome all present. I would like to take advantage of the remaining time with one comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u111	My friend Mamić, I'm sorry when I looked at who's next, I skipped my colleague Juban. I apologize to you and my colleague Juban even more. Please, Comrade Juban, I apologize. Then you don't have to interrupt me, you could have me, Comrade Juban, you have your word. [[...]] I made this mistake, then my friend Mamić has the floor. I'm sorry. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u112	New guy - what else can we say? Nothing. We've heard everything twice, and we don't get any new answers. The most memorable thing I remember was when a colleague of mine said, "We have to let people decide." Let him tell me what people will decide! It's not just you, Comrade Podobnik. It's countless of those who say that people will decide - no one can tell me what. Kremjar read on the Constitutional Court’s decision on point 8. The people have no idea what this is about. Pure "painting" because the situation in this house has crossed the limits of common sense and is already going a little crazy. And I don't have any conscience that I haven't made up my mind the last time, I haven't made up my mind, but I'm also apologizing for that because I can't explain to people what they're going to decide. Otherwise, I find this to be further convincing, telling without any benefit, and doing it is already completely stupid to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u113	My friend Mamić now has the floor. After him, Jash's colleague, Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u114	Thanks again. Although I've lost half a minute. I wanted to talk to you about wondering where those people have been for so long that they haven't settled their status as belonging to them, which they want -- they don't have to laugh at anything, that's the truth. My son was also erased. Just because he didn't have speculative intentions, he made sure he got his citizenship and got it as soon as possible. And he normally lives like everyone else. So if he got it, anyone else could get it if they had an interest. It was an outrage of the administration because it was not from this opposition that we were in the clear. Let us leave now whose government she was and what she was and so on. Now there's some tutoring, for those people to solve what happened ten years ago and so many years ago, with some paybacks, with some evidence, with some confirmations, and I don't know what else. This is simply unacceptable to me. I don't know, it seems to me that this is happening in no country, the rule of law can't be happening, and I don't know any case that anything like this has ever happened. Now, there's a lawyer named Krivic and a government coalition, and now they're trying to get these things back. I don't know who was erased, and why was it erased, or is anyone even erased in this case? So if they didn't want to regulate their status, they weren't even deleted for me anymore, I call them so-called deleted. And why we are wasting so much energy, because I agree when Mr Kremjar said we could solve this in 15 minutes. We could have saved a very elegant life six months ago. Just because of the government coalition and willfulness, ignorance and so on, the simple opposition is left with no choice but to propose a referendum for the nation to decide on matters that put pressure on all of us. You don't have to laugh because it's nothing funny! If we are talking about things that are constructive, which are quality - I don't know if the opposition has ever opposed. I can certainly say that never. And that is to say, if we have to now - because it has been obvious to us that we are to blame and I do not know what to vote as the government coalition proposes, this is to say that we would go back to some of the minds we had, but I think that too much time - 50 years in our history. And of course I'll support that. Thank God it's about time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My friend Janš has the floor, followed by a colleague of Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u116	Now a lot of my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about how it's written abroad about this problem. We now note that the negative marks that appear in foreign media are either composed of quotations from members of the society deleted, which also have their own website, which says that Slovenia has carried out genocide and that they have to be behind this Slovenian policy in The Hague, or such organisations as, say, the Helsinki Monitor that it sent to the world today - we have already heard it on the radio, where it says that Slovenia carried out an administrative genocide and erased 83,580 people. It'll be in a lot of foreign newspapers tomorrow. A few days ago, there was a controversy as to how a party of European Socialists in the European Parliament had requested that a paragraph on deleted items should also appear in the European Parliament's report in Slovenia. Then we heard excuses and various explanations, when we were asked, were answered by the United List - and we answered them. However, when we asked the European Parliament among the Members of this party how this had happened, they told us that they had received a letter from the members of the leadership of the United Nations and the Members of the United Nations who had called on this party to trigger this in the European Parliament. I can tell you the name, even though you can tell by the redhead that he recognized himself. Then we have here, for example, a very infamous article about Slovenia in one of the distinguished Czech newspapers. The title is "Xenophobia spreads in Slovenia" and writes, of course, about deletion, genocide and so on. A copy of this article was sent by the lady with a letter saying: "We were in the Czech Republic. We have seen this article, which speaks extremely negatively about Slovenia. First, I was disturbed by the author of this article. Although his name and surname are written in Czech spelling, I believe that this is our journalist Miho Lampret, a journalist of Slovenian national radio. "Michal Lamprecht is signed." So, who's spreading a negative picture about Slovenia? Then we listened here today to a number of expressions of support for the decisions of the Constitutional Court from people from whom we sometimes heard everything else. It was said that this is a sacred thing that is almost above the constitution. Mr Potrč asked the opposition, in the tone that we had practiced 20 years ago, what he thought about respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, when it was impossible to negotiate in this regard. I would not remind Mr Potrč of his statement at the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly on 18.6.1999, where he is almost on the whole side - and I will make this brief - of my position why he is not obliged to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. He says: "It is already provided in the Constitutional Court Act that non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision is an option. It is possible that such a request will then be reinstated into constitutional judgment. If such a decision was taken at the referendum, it is not necessary to take this into account; we can have a re-referendum on these matters. The only sanction, however, is political, say, political parties and individuals who do not respect it - decisions of the Constitutional Court - will eventually be penalised by voters. All other assessments of the fact that a Constitutional Court decision is mandatory, that it requires a hundred percent implementation and that if it does not, then the constitutional crisis, that the rule of law does not work, these are not different claims, this is, from the point of view of the Constitution and legislation, an incorrect display of a factual situation." So then, on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and as we have heard earlier today, I will not quote. Well, at the end of the day, Mr Potrč drew a line like this under his attitude towards the Constitutional Court decision. He said, "You're talking and you're banging on the chest that you're in compliance with the Constitutional Court ruling, you're saying we're the ones who respect the decision. Figgo, you respect her when she "feeds" and you're just like all of us when we apply the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as it suits." This is the position of Mr Potč, using the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the same way as they are in the case of whom. So don't ask us if we're up for a decision. We do not agree with the way you wanted to implement the Constitutional Court decision, so we have submitted a referendum request. This is our right under the Constitution. And the people who come to the referendum will tell them if they think it's okay, what you're suggesting or not. And we both have to respect that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u117	Replica, Comrade Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Janša, I fully agree with this statement today. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , you interpret it quite correctly, that it also applies to you to use when you "feed" and when you don't, you do it your way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u119	Time's up. Let's move on. My colleague, Shirca, has a word for her, her colleague, Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u120	Personally, I think that the Rules of Procedure are being used today when it is not discussed on April 4th as the date proposed for the date of the referendum, but given that my colleague Geza has asked a question that relates to April 4th, which is supposed to be confirmed that he does not know how to explain to people what they will decide on that day, let me add to this rhetorical question that we will or will decide on something that has already been decided. In particular, they will decide on something which, perhaps even by rejecting the law on the subsequent referendum, as the Constitutional Court has said, will not terminate the duty of the national assembly to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, they will decide that something that has been decided must be carried out and that, in doing so, - and meaningfully - it can challenge the most democratic tool the democratic state has in the referendum at a time when it can be used to achieve entirely other political, particularly political objectives. In this context, a lot of manipulative words have been spoken, not only from those who have questioned the self-sustainment process itself, but also from doubts as to whether the Slovenian carries with him any other that is not Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u121	Comrade Skull, behind you, Comrade Terchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u122	Thank you very much. So today it is necessary to repeat certain things that have already been said many times. I am opposed to this referendum, not because I would have anything against the referendum decision, but because I am reading the Constitutional Court's decision in a way that, in fact, the will expressed in the referendum will not affect what the Constitutional Court has imposed on the Ministry of the Interior to do in the case of complementary decisions for the people who have already obtained the decisions. That's why I'm going to say that it's problematic for the National Assembly to use this instrument in this behaviour, because it's using some right, without a sure possibility to influence decisions then, it's likely that this instrument is being played. Perhaps the answer is why someone needs this referendum, in what has been said at the outset, in the position of one of the parliamentary groups when the question of what this referendum will bring us, is that this referendum will tell us whether the authorities are doing right or wrong. It is said that this referendum is used for a few others - not to confirm the law, but to question the conduct of power. And that the situation will be even more paradoxical, in the event of the negative outcome of this referendum, it will prove that, in fact, the rejection of this law allows for the legal issue of decisions as stated by the Constitutional Court. I assume that the signatories to this argument also got caught in some trap they didn't want to go into. Because - there's something else? If the law cannot be the basis for a decision, then it can be a direct constitutional decision. And for an explanation to Mr Mamić, who I take for granted, and to those who accompany these controversyes. He wondered where those people were when it was necessary to settle their status, and he said my son was also erased, and he asked for citizenship, and he got citizenship. This is an excellent example to understand what we must do with this and the following law. Also, the vast majority of people who will receive supplementary decisions or decisions later will receive them for the time between the deletion and the time when they have settled their status. His son will also be able to obtain a decision if he meets the conditions set out in the following law, I apologize for jumping from the decree to the second law, and he will be able to obtain a decision on the time between the deletion and the moment he becomes a citizen. That's what this is about, Mr. Mamić. If he asks, he'll get it. If he doesn't ask, he won't get it. Someone needs, someone doesn't need, there are procedures for that. In the case that we are currently discussing, it is that people have already requested and obtained permanent residence status and are given an additional decision for this interim period. It is not for those who would do nothing in favour of arranging their status, but for that, for example, illegal stay in Slovenia to be done for legal purposes. And that, I'll say, is the duty of us who respect the rules to enable them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. Now it's time for three final panellists, then I'll order a 10-minute committee, and we'll move on to a decision. The last three panellists are colleagues Terchon, Vukko, Anderlich. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite some calls for us to come together and work together on this issue, which sounds good, I must say that I did not doubt it, and that I expected that in this country the Schengen and especially in Parliament, the Schengen, would be complicated and that we would politicise the issue and complicate it to the point of disability, especially because we are slowly tilting at the time of the elections. I must say that, in my opinion, the ruling coalition has also made some mistakes more than its substantive nature, particularly its tactical nature, and have been, after things have been complicated, primarily the expression of the desire to rationalise matters or some unrealistic expectation that some political compromise may be reached. I must say that in a large part of the public I believe there is no real evaluation present, a real picture of what is actually going on. There is still a lot of speculation about damages, citizenship, etc., although this is not the case at all. After all, the ruling coalition offered to comment the opposition on its solution, which would regulate or reduce compensation in cases. It's kind of in the air to see what the outcome of the referendum will be. As a politician, it would be good to look ahead. Then what? The fact is that we will have a referendum, we are aware of its outcome, the opposition and the February of the opposition, Mr Janša, and he has announced that personal responsibility will also be present when decisions are issued, those who will issue decisions. So we're going to have a situation, as I say, because we have a sense of what the referendum will be like. The Minister issues the decisions. On the one hand, we will have a referendum reply, on the other hand, I have a little speculation, I suppose what can happen, we will have decisions and, consequently, the rights of the people who will receive certain rights through these decisions. And, of course, what's next? Mr Janša has announced that it will require a review of the decisions, the personal responsibility of all those who have issued the decisions. I think it's kind of, I'd say, a scary scenario. I believe that the opposition does not take this seriously; it is mainly about raising cheap political points before the elections. Of course, I'm also kind of afraid of being serious. And I wonder where all this is taking us, whether we will have to deal with again in some future time with some re-deleted ones that we will have to solve again. Gentlemen of the opposition! I must tell you that, in my opinion, Demos had the possibility of this individual treatment if he met the legal requirements then, before he was deleted. Now this option is no longer available because we have the fact that the Constitutional Court has decided and has said that these decisions must be made. I certainly don't think you're serious about these predictions. Of course, time will tell. I think we probably know when this story is going to end. It's around the election. How it ends, I don't know if you even care because you care about these same elections and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u125	Replica colleague Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u126	So, respectable colleague! The decisions that your government is issuing at this time are illegal. They do not have a legal basis; they are also contrary to that Article of the Constitution, which states that retroactive acts are not allowed to be issued in return, except in limited cases, which can be determined only by law, but not by a Constitutional Court decision. After the referendum, if this law, which you have filed and which you say is irrelevant, rejected, these decisions will not only be illegal but will also be illegal. This action will also be rejected at the referendum. In this case, you will be expected to eliminate them or to revise them yourself. If you do not do so, we will call on the voters to no longer vote in the elections for you who issue illegal decisions, but for those who oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u127	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u128	And if the electorate so decides, we promise to continue to revise these decisions and we will bring a criminal complaint against the minister who is doing this now, or against those who have ordered him, in accordance with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u129	Comrade Wolf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u130	Thank you, President. Before I begin my performance, I would like to reply to my colleague Janša, because I think he is being misled and well knows what it says in the Constitutional Court's decision. The decisions now issued by the Ministry are legal and legitimate and legal. The legal basis for the issuing of these decisions is given by a decision of the Constitutional Court, where, pursuant to Article 40(2) of the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court has clearly ordered the performance of this task and has also indicated who must carry it out. So much for that. Today we are talking about a referendum that has an important place in modern democracy, because it is a kind of institute of direct democracy. In my opinion, the referendum only makes sense when we decide on some of the more important issues. And in this country we have had some important referendums, as well as plebiscite, and this is undoubtedly important questions for Slovenia as such, for its development, future and so on. In modern democracy, these referendums are also highly socialally linked, as they usually signify some consensus, political consensus on the transfer of a decision to the sovereign people. What about us? I have a feeling that this institute of referendum has been completely abused. It is pointed out that it is more of a subtle tacturing of the opposition, which has completely formed the referendum into a tool for inculcating certain decisions that have not been made through this national assembly. Today we are calling a referendum on the question, and here I agree with my colleague Juban, who says, "What will we decide about what people will decide?" People will decide on something that the Constitutional Court has already resolved and resolved when the Minister issues decisions concerning technical law. And there's something else I'd like to leave with my colleague Anderlich for a while. Today it was said, I think colleague Jerovšek said it was one of the gains of independence. I hope that it is not one of the values of the self-sustaining war that we will illegally and unconstitutionally wipe people out and thus interfere with their rights. I personally did not fight for it in this self-serving war. My assessment of self-reliance was not a revenge project, but a positive project, so that we could live in this Slovenia better, all those who lived at the time. And it is not surprising, therefore, that in Europe they have found the thread that they have responded to and not to be surprised at these articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u131	Comrade Anderlich, you're the last speaker, and then I'm going to order a replica, please? [[...]] I'm sorry, colleague Anderlich. My colleague Janša's replica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll take it into account with my colleague Anderlich. [[...]] My friend Janša's name is Replica. Please, I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u132	If the problem is time, we have six more minutes and all six more minutes to give Mr Anderlich, because at the last sessions he speaks very highly in favour of us, so that we give up all six minutes. As far as Mr Wolf's remarks are concerned, of course they do not. If that were true, then the government would not have proposed a so-called technical law. What you are saying is totally contrary to what the Constitution says, and also in total contravention of what Mr Bohinc wrote in his legal opinion 13 respected doctors of law in this country - that only on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court cannot be issued individual acts. So you do not dispute with me, but with the legal profession in Slovenia and also with the Constitution. And I really don't know how you explain your current position, given that you proposed this law to Steve, that you insisted on this law, that you voted twice, first in the process and then after the veto of the State Council. Until then, you've insisted on this marriage, you've bled for it, and now it's irrelevant when it's stuck, isn't it? With that logic, of course, we're not going anywhere. People will know what they are deciding, and they will decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u133	Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor, and I will take these seconds into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u134	Today's session is obviously about extreme logic. This is because of the request for a referendum, as a result of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, and which is an even greater cynicism, that the entries that were needed because Demos had committed a mistake to delete people, were carried out practically from 1999 onwards, during the time when the Minister of the Interior of the Liberal Democracy was Minister of the Bajuk Government, Mr Jambrek, and until 2002. In short, something you acknowledged, what you were doing, you later stopped with a referendum initiative. And if nothing else, today's meeting should be about Point 2 and it's all the other misdirection and non-recognition of its 1992 mistake. Since 1992, since 1994, 1998, 1999, 2000 and until the last decision of 2003 and the decision of the Constitutional Court in autumn, when it has said that the decision must be implemented directly, it is clear, of course, that the entries must be made and that the things that can be regulated by the so-called system law, which we have also adopted, must also be regulated. And because of these two demands - and both requests for a referendum you have made, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u135	Mr. Minister, you have no more than 30 seconds for your last word. In time, I warned you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on this debate, which touched on the question why the technical law and why the direct decision. The fact is that, as was said here, a group of legal experts recommended the law as a basis for the issue of decisions. That's indisputable. However, both the Constitutional Court and other legal experts, in particular Dr. Lovro Šturm, in his comment on constitutional law, state that a decision of the Constitutional Court can also be considered as a legal provision and that a decision of the Constitutional Court may be the correct legal basis for the issue of decisions. This means that the opinions of the legal profession are not uniform here. The right approach, I say, was to establish a legal basis through law. However, as this is constitutionally permissible and legally corrected, it is also constitutionally permissible and legally correct, both in its explicit reasoning and in its decision-making directly on the basis of the Constitutional Court. It shall draw up its legitimacy in the Constitutional Court as the highest sovereign of the judiciary and its legality in the decision of the Constitutional Court, which shall be the law on the basis of which these decisions are issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. That's my conclusion. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, you can't because you're not here, he didn't mention you to me to remember, no. [[...]] We should have called sooner. Please! I'm asking for peace. Was the deadline raised for a procedural proposal, or what? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Look, I suggest we close the debate now. [[...]] There will be explanations of vote, and I know that many of you will intervene. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please! [[...]] Peace in the hall, Comrade Jerovšek! I suggest we conclude here. I will not give the replica a chance. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yes, I know, but you must be, Comrade Jerovšek. [[...]] No, no, no. I've never given a second word for the replica, and I'm not giving it now. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I propose that we conclude the debate now. For 4 seconds, Comrade Bajuk has a chance, if anyone else applies for a word, then I have to open the debate further, and I believe that, Comrade Bajuk, I have not given you my word yet. [[...]] I suggest we close the debate. Please conclude the debate to set aside the necessary 10 minutes of recess to move to a vote, where there will be a sure explanation of vote, and then there will be another 6 hours of debate on the second item. I suggest we close the debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. At 18:00 and 35 minutes, we'll move on to a decision-making decision. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u138	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting. Please take your seats. I also ask you to check the functioning of your voting device so that there will be no complications during the decision-making process. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices? Colleagues and colleagues, could I have your attention, please? I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'll read the notice. Since it has not been possible to submit amendments to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on amendments to the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the ruling. 72 in attendance, 47 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 2. POSITION OF THE DAY'S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION CONCERNING THE REFERENCE TO THE STATE OF THE COURT OF DECISIONS, OR THE CONTENTS OF THE REFERENCE FOR THE PREVIOUS LEGAL REFERENCE ON THE STATUS OF THE STATUS OF NETHERLANDS WITH THE CITIZENS OF THE COUNTRIES OF OTHER COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE TRAINER, SOMETIMES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, WHICH HAVE BEEN IN THE NAME OF VOLIVK AND VOLIVICE BELIEVED BY THE PRESIDENT SDS JANEZ AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION, IN THE NAME OF VOLIVK AND VOLIVICE The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Committee on Internal Policy for consideration by the National Assembly. The Vice-President of the Committee, colleague Kangler, wishes to explain the proposal further and has five minutes to do so. Please, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Report on the proposal for a decision requesting the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 were registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, is based on an initiative submitted by the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party and President of the New Slovenia on behalf of the electorates and voters, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 46th urgent meeting, on 10.2.2004, the Slovenian National Assembly Committee on Internal Policy considered a proposal for a decision to require the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the invitation to a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor states of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence registered in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992, was based on an initiative tabled by the President of the SDSM and the President of NSI, contrary to the Constitution of Slovenia. As a result of the fact, on 2.2.2004 the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the President of the New Slovenia presented to the National Assembly the initiative of electorates and voters to collect signatures, requesting a call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal itself. In view of the above, and in response to the initiative put forward, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, which was also joined by the DeSUS Group, submitted a proposal for a decision to the Committee and proposed that the Committee accept it as its own. The Committee voted on the proposed proposal covered by the report and supported the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the government representative if he wishes. That's the word you're giving up. That is how we will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he has the floor of his colleague Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. He's going to be followed by Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly! Mr. Secretary! Dear Members and Members! Perhaps the content of the referendum questions that Mr Janš and Bajuk have submitted on the system law on deleted by their signatures will at last only help all non-believers to understand why in reality the games. It is the request of representatives of SDS and New Slovenia not to respect the human rights of deleted persons. The Constitutional Court found, first in 1999, and several times after 2003, that the removal from the residence record in 1992 was illegal, and that all those who had lived continuously and in fact since then in the Republic of Slovenia had to be re-registered with that date. Voters and voters who trust the Constitutional Court in the cases that have been deleted know first that the opposition does not want to respect its decisions. Voters and voters should know that especially two parties to the government coalition, the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats, who are responsible for the rule of law and want to enforce it even when this is not popular in the short term, have been trying for months to ensure respect for the human rights of this group of people, and this by public propaganda against and procedural fraud has prevented the opposition. Thus, both genders do not share the same responsibility for complications in the National Assembly as many would like to show. Voters and voters should know that this is not about two genders, which are procedurally competing, who will be more skilled. That is why every responsible politician and citizen of Slovenia must finally know and understand that this is not the case in this case and that it can therefore bend a little for each other and a little for each other so that they can fight and condemn, a little one and a little one. A solution is possible with any compromise, only if everyone was prepared to compromise. Finally, we need to understand from the policy and the public that the issue needs to be defined on a substantive basis. To respect the rule of law, we must respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and acknowledge that they have been wronged. However, for those who are not worthy of support for minority rights, it may be because they are a marginalised group because they are not of Slovenian origin because they have been organised late, but they are still working hard and therefore do not enjoy special sympathy, or because they do not carry political and pre-election points, they may remain carefree and unloved. But he must also accept the fact that he is willing to forget about human rights and the Constitution, whether in this case or perhaps another time. I do not challenge any of the opposition's right to vote against the Constitutional Court's decision. But comparing this situation with 1999 and electoral legislation is simply not true. This time it is about specific people and human rights violations to specific people. It's not a system or a system of choice, it's a violation of human rights. As the opposition knows that the decision of the National Assembly against the Constitutional Court decision is again subject to constitutional judgment, and this finding was quoted earlier by Mr Janša, it advocates not to adopt laws in the National Assembly, but to regulate it by constitutional law in order to violate constitutional law the rights to be deleted. And what's the difference? This is that in this case individual requirements and individual disputes may be possible, which in the case of electoral legislation was not available. It is therefore clear from the referendum questions tabled today that it is only possible to compromise with the opposition unless even a minimum right is granted to the deleted, even at the cost of violating human rights, which will later be enforced before the European Court of Human Rights, with much greater moral and material consequences for Slovenia. Any compromise under these conditions means that Slovenia is not a rule of law. These are essential questions. It should be pointed out that on the side of LDS, the United List and DeSUS, which want to resolve this issue in favour of Slovenia and its reputation in Europe, it is not only a constitutional court. On the part of the Constitutional Court, most of the commentators are from the media. There are over 600 of the most respected intellectuals on the side of the Constitutional Court and the rule of law who have given their names and surnames for this arrangement. The vast majority of civil society movements, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, the Ombudsman of the European Union. How to solve a case of deleted persons is of interest to many abroad. In the last few annual reports, the Ombudsman wrote about these problems. So those who do not believe in political parties have the opportunity to believe in others who have independently identified themselves to solve the problem. Therefore, the SDS and Nova Slovenija, in addition to the Slovenian National Party and some individuals who point out that they want to rehabilitate opponents of independence, do not have serious advocates of their positions. But there are unheard-of media campaigns. One or more press conferences are convened every day, and the repeated untruth for many is becoming the truth. Not only citizens and citizens, but also the media are becoming more nervous to talk about this subject. Therefore, the efforts of individuals and parties who would like to be "centred" for compromise and cooperation are only well-meaning until they take account of the real situation. The constant repetition of the idea of finding compromise and adopting constitutional law can be understood in very different ways. If it can be understood as a way of continuing to be abandoned by the coalition, then these individuals also agree to solutions that imply any neglect of human rights and the rule of law. And it's only because of the loving peace that abuse makes it impossible to achieve in the long run. However, if it can be understood by the fact that the text of the State Council with amendments adopted at the Council meeting has already passed a critical point yet acceptable and does not in any way further violate the content of the Constitutional Court decision, then this should also be said on the basis of initiatives taken to create a constitutional law. It is necessary to know that even constitutional form does not solve the problem of constitutional content. If it is clear that they accept the constitutional law only in order to circumvent the decisions of the Constitutional Court and in the constitutional law that the content which does not fit there should be seen by everyone today, unless consciously so wishes, the content of the Constitutional Court may be examined and judged by the Constitutional Court, even if this law has the title of the Constitutional Law. Moreover, every individual and every person affected, each of whom has been deleted, can turn to the constitutional court for the exercise of their rights without law. And if this right cannot already be recognised by him because he will be bound by the constitutional law, such an individual will be able to address the European Court of Human Rights, which will not be dealt with in terms of our constitutional law, but in terms of internationally established human rights. These are not my findings. These are the findings of the President of the Constitutional Court. That is why all the mixing with these questions, whether the strong opposition to the rule of law or the desire for the upcoming elections, is to postpone the problem for later. The first is contrary to human rights and the rule of law. The second is very shortsighted and irresponsible. Those who want to rule must also be willing to make unpopular decisions if they are necessary and for the long-term benefit of the country. The request to assess the constitutionality of the referendum issues, as adopted by the home labour force, sets out all the essential issues and the constitutional articles with which the referendum issues are at odds. We agree with the content of these views and propose that they also be adopted by the State Assembly. I expect that the content of these views will also be supported by parties who have a number of concerns about the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the rights deleted. This also allows the Constitutional Court to decide otherwise not to adopt our proposals and thus only causes the referendum to be signed and decided upon. And if in this case we decided on the content of the law as required by the referendum questions, there would be no longer any doubt about what we should do. And why does the United List of Social Democrats consider the referendum issues to be contrary to the Constitution? As they stem from the assumption and belief that the removal from the register of permanent residence without a legal basis and without decisions or notice to the affected was not illegal. Such a assumption is contrary to the rule of law and to the express decisions of the Constitutional Court. Since they stem from the assumption and belief that they should have been deleted by 26 February 1992 or, as soon as possible after that date, requested the administrative authorities to regulate their status. If they have not done so, they should therefore be themselves guilty of extermination and must now prove that they were unable to settle their status because of the misconduct of the administrative authorities. Thus, contrary to the rule of law and the promises made by the other peoples of the former SFRJ, given before the plebiscite, it is also a religious and immoral thing, and contrary to the explicit findings of the Constitutional Court, that the assumption that some could interpret even Article 13 of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia was deemed to be that, at the time of the adoption of the Act on Citizenship and Foreigners, those who renounced their rights and did not respond to the offer to accept Slovenian citizenship had decided to emigrate to the country of nationality. Therefore, the right to permanent residence in these cases was dealt with together with the right to citizenship. As early as 1999, the Constitutional Court had not yet given these arbitrary interpretations of the Constitutional Charter, it stated that its Article 13 had been interpreted in a completely different way. The explanation offered by the opposition today can therefore only bear the fruit of the actual wishes of the years of independence, which were not the contents of the law, since no one would have dared to defend them loudly during that period and would have been misunderstood and condemned in the international community, since it is assumed that the status without misbehavior can be sufficient reason enough to avoid a certain right. I am referring to the fact that membership already consists of JLA, military or civilian, and federal authorities, although it is common servants, such as customs, foreign exchange inspections, offices in federal bodies in Belgrade or similar, but not active action in armed conflicts against Slovenia, makes it possible to lose the right to permanent residence. The latter is, indeed, beyond all other acceptable limits of law, the basis of which is the sanctioning of a different political belief. Finally, but most unacceptable, I could even say horrifyingly, it is the basis for the law to prescribe criminal offences in return, to treat as a crime respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court and not to specify the actual circumstances or the penalty at stake. Even the lustration laws proposed by the same two parties in their time were a direct example of legal and civilisation in comparison with these proposals. No comment is required. This is the content of referendum questions. Remember what the representatives of the same parties said before we passed the technical and systemic law - to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, but they only want a separate determination before the decisions are issued. It is not just individual verification, but audits are the content of the system law, and this is no longer important. They said they were prepared to recognise the status rights, but that Slovenian taxpayers would not pay the imaginative obligations of speculators and opponents of Slovenia alone. Indemnities are now even more restrictive in the system law than those parties have proposed in their text of the constitutional law, and that is not enough now. They said that they should not enjoy the rights deleted, for which the permanent and continuous residence, which is now guaranteed, was no longer sufficient. And they said that people who actively participated in the aggression against Slovenia were not entitled to rights, which is also included in the system law, and now it means nothing. And what do I think this proves? It proves that it is not at all a matter of being deleted, and even less so that Slovenia and Slovenia should be protected from the claims for the correction of injustices. The issue deleted with minimal benevolence and in favour of the co-existence of Slovenia's home and reputation in the world without major material obligations could long ago be resolved and dedicated to more important tasks for our people before entering Europe. The opposition is one that does not show the minimum willingness to cooperate and seek compromises. Its starting points are non-European and non-democratic. It insists that the wrongs committed are not rectified and that the topics deleted with all possible inconsistencies about content and procedural tricks and abuses are carried out as long as possible in electoral time. Those who do not have a clear positive agenda, who do not have proposals to deal with many of the problems we face, must be satisfied with a lack of intolerance and conflict. It's sad, but it's real.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u142	Mr Kebrich has the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we have carefully examined the issues that citizens should examine at the referendum and mislead them and vote in one way or another. On the other hand, we were wondering if we could sign the proposal tabled by the LDS, the United List, and we joined. We went to look at the constitution that talks about the referendum, we looked at the law on referendum and human initiative, and we came to the following conclusions. First of all, the constitution only speaks of the referendum as a general one. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, however, specifies and knows a number of types of referendums. This time, we have a preliminary legislative referendum to deal with. Why did we sign this proposal we're talking about? In particular, because we want and want citizens to get such a clear question that it will be understandable to them and that, in their own minds, they will be able to make the right decision in their own head. See, the referendum question has seven indents and an average of four lines, since there are a total of 30 lines. How will people at the referendum think about it? Will they read everything there or, above all, will they understand everything there? If I quote Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, second and third indents that say: Should the proposed law settle a certain issue, as proposed? That's in this case. Second: Should the proposed law deal with a particular issue differently than proposed, and how should it be addressed? 20. Article 20 states: "The National Assembly may decide, at the time of the adoption of the law, to sign a subsequent referendum, a law which it has adopted." This brings us to the question of how many more referendums we will have on this one and the same subject deleted. How much is that gonna cost taxpayers? We therefore believe in the Group of Members that it is right to ask the Constitutional Court in advance whether these issues are such that they are not contrary to the Constitution, so that there will be no subsequent constitutional legislative referendum. On the other hand, allow me to quote article 23, which says, "The National Assembly is bound to the outcome of the referendum." The second paragraph says: "The National Assembly must take into account the decision taken at the previous referendum when adopting the law." The cases are perfectly clear and, therefore, we have attached ourselves to the proposal that the Constitutional Court, for the first time, as I said, determine whether these referendum issues are such that they will not be established in conflict with the constitutional ones and, on the other hand, we are asked a fundamental question which we believe will also be said by the Constitutional Court, whether these issues are fully clear that the citizens will understand them and will be able to make the right decision on a particular issue. What is important is what we have highlighted in the preceding paragraph. The referendum is the highest institute that gives citizens the opportunity to decide their fate in our country. Surely it is for our Group that the referendum decision is also on the decision of the Constitutional Court, since the Constitution states that the authority in our country is the people. That's what they say. No one else can make these decisions. There is, of course, a dilemma about what will happen to the previous law, but I will not lose words about it. We will find ourselves in a difficult situation, no matter how the referendum succeeds or fails or how the people decide. We believe in the parliamentary group that, unfortunately, this law on referendum and human initiative, according to our belief, is incomplete, because regardless of the fact that they have such a law in Switzerland and I have recently read what 550 referendums have had in the last period, Switzerland is something special. It does not matter how many people go to the referendum, while certain other countries have a minimum prescribed when the referendum is in force. This dilemma should be clearly defined or clarified when the referendum is also valid, how many, for the first time, people should go to a referendum so that, as in the last case, 12% of the people will not decide for all the remaining 88% of the citizens. And on the other hand, when we had a case for amending electoral legislation, when one of us argued that no referendum had been voted on because no referendum question had been given 50% and one vote, what the referendum or the law required. Others claimed or should take into account the result that the referendum received the most votes but far below 50%. This is another topic that is still awaiting us to clarify, that in the future referendum and the people's initiative will be carried out more rationally or even rationally, because until now certain matters are extremely irrational and taxpayers, citizens who have electoral rights and thus also referendum rights are of course looking at these issues differently. We in the National Assembly have complicated this matter and spent a lot of energy and time, but, to some extent, in the Group of Members, we feel that at least something in all of this has been good, that we have shown in our citizens that not all of our laws are so precise, not so clear, and, last but not so clear, they are not so good that they could not yet be fixed in the rest of the time that we have foreseen for this mandate, these various laws after a short or fast or some other normal procedure. Therefore, we believe that it is right for the Constitutional Court to decide first whether these questions are - I repeat - and I will end with this - whether they are, or not, contrary to constitutional provisions, and, secondly, whether these questions are - which is also most important to us - so clear that the citizens will not say that we have offered them something that is not yet fully clear to us, because the legal profession is precisely in this respect, if we look at the opinion of the labour force, that is the Committee on Internal Policy, which explains which indents the articles of which are not in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court will judge. On the other hand, I would just like to mention that the final Constitutional Court is not also over and is in breach of the Constitution, as it was breached when an initiative for the assessment of the pension-disability law, Article 150 and Article 151 was given. Article, and is retrograde, anti-constitutional, because the Constitution states that certain rights acquired and expected cannot be abolished or retrograde reduced. This is happening now, although the Constitution also knows a certain exception. But this exception to this area of pension legislation cannot be taken into account, nor can it be taken into account for certain other, such and different opinions when an initiative is given to the Constitutional Court to decide within the framework of constitutionality. I think that these matters should be taken into account by our dear Constitutional Judges and Judges in the future in a different way than they have so far. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u144	The text is received by Janez Podobnik for the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u145	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a point of the agenda which is in accordance with Article of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, that when the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, it is only possible for such a procedure to be carried out and that the content of the request is also referred to the Constitutional Court. In opening, I would like to say that we were surprised today when the mother's working body held this debate in a few minutes. The main dispute was who would be the rapporteur at the working body meeting. There was no content. In our view, there are quite a few substantive discussions that should take place there, not here. That's the first conclusion. The second point is related to the provision of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which also discusses the clarity of issues. Comrade Kebrich has repeatedly mentioned the issue of clarity. If it is a matter of clarity, then as a national assembly, let us turn to the drafters of the referendum initiative and not to the Constitutional Court. And if we carefully read the opinion of the legislative and legal service, as well as the conclusion of the working body, the decision is based on the position of the LDS, the UK and DeSUS fellow Members, we would see that a number of issues could be resolved only by making the proposals more clear. And there wouldn't be any dilemmas about any kind of anti-establishment. If, as an example, I mention the second indent where it is said that the time limit for applying for recognition of permanent residence status is six months ago. And in this debate it is later cited as an argument that it would be more correct for one year. You don't have to put that in a constitutional court. This can only be completed by the applicant and written as an example for one year. And this should be settled by the working body today, not that we're here to talk about it. I have to say another thing. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that there is now actually a very clear moment to say how we see the way out of the situation. From the beginning, we argued that the substantive law was not a solution and would not constitute a definitive solution. In our view, the solution is the following: after the referendum or referendums have been held, as the National Assembly will decide - we also hear that there is a low-level state council waiting to enter and he proposes referendum questions - so when the referendums are passed, and therefore we claim that they must be passed as soon as possible, then we will have to resolve the matter within the framework of the constitutional law. There will be no other way. On behalf of the parliamentary group in the forthcoming speech, Comrade Potrč gave a very incontrovertible appearance here and, in fact, rejected the possibility of constitutional law in some way, but argued it. Yesterday, and above all today, I have carefully read the proposal for a decision which is the basis for today's decision. This is a proposal for a decision for which the mother labour body estimates that there are 13 articles of the Constitution in the proposed seven indents of the referendum question, if I have seen correctly. When you go from line to line, my conclusion is as follows. In fact, this shows where the solution is: the solution is in constitutional law. And some solutions, some, not all of them, as voters and voters wrote in the initiative to write them together in closed doors with experts in the form of a constitutional law - this is the solution. From the first to the sixth indent, I'm not talking about the seventh. Personally, I do not support it, and we do not support colleagues in the parliamentary group that it would be anyhow, either as a referendum issue or that it is the content of any law to now mention a worse crime of any act by the administrative authority in issuing decisions to regulate the status back. In our view, this is the wrong way and we do not support it. However, all the other six indents are, in our view, possible and is a legitimate way to write them in the form of a constitutional law, all six but not in the form that they are written here. Some, however, are very good solutions. Finally, they also summarize solutions in some partial solutions in constitutional laws, and some also partially follow the content of the system law. Of course, here comes this sensitive issue, which is called making decisions back. This reliable issue complicates and complicates and reduces the possibility of agreement. The Slovenian People's Party reiterates its proposal to the Minister to stop its activity in this area from waiting for the referendum and then to find a solution together after the referendum in the form of a constitutional law. When we look at solutions, such as written and explained, our conclusion is as follows. That the legislative and legal service, if we have seen it correctly, has identified in three or four indents of this referendum question the possibility, as it stated, that it could lead to unconstitutional consequences or unconstitutional solutions. We also think that the argument is a good one. However, what has taken the form of a decision and is proposed by the Committee is, in our view, excessive. It contains a whole set of incomplete assessments, value assessments, and in particular this does not normally fall within the text adopted today by the National Assembly. It is said that solutions go beyond the content of the bill, it is said that if I read some more that it is a different bearer concept. This is a value assessment, this cannot be an objective assessment of the National Assembly. Then we are surprised that this text contains a formulation that is not the content of the referendum initiative law. In fact, if we had adopted such a solution today, we would have adopted the following: "The National Assembly also notes that the content of the referendum question is in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh indents, i.e. in all contravention of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court." Judgment of the Constitutional Court, this argument is not based on the law on referendum and human initiative." This is, I propose to withdraw alaneanly because it is contrary to the law in force. Perhaps because there was no substantive debate on the Committee today, this text has not been taken a substantive look at at it at all. Look. When we went to look closely at this text, there are, as it is said, some arguments that are different from what we, as a party, advocate in solving this issue. I'd touch at least some. I would mention the question, that is, whether six months to allow citizens of other republics, or one year. We could get out of here fast and say one year. But, fourth indent, here's an interesting formulation that's written down, and in our opinion, it's wrong. In fact, it speaks of the possibility that the renewal of the authorisation procedure may also require the association of veterans of the war on Slovenia and that, without constitutionally permissible reasons, individual civil society organisations may be privileged and granted exclusive rights. The following is a sentence, which, in our view, is wrong and does not mean that the National Assembly sends it to the Constitutional Court, namely, that the issue of the recognition of permanent residence through a self-serving war is linked in a constitutional way, thus giving rise to the impression that it is for those who have been erased against the rule of law, thereby promoting hatred and intolerance, which constitutes violations, as provided for in Article of the Constitution. Only if we look at today's government's response to my question, is this proof that such a dictatorship, of course, is untrue. In certain elements, colleagues and colleagues, of course, these issues still touch on issues of self-sustainment and today the government has also written to us on the question of parliament when it cited some of the cases, you have before you, not least about the exceptions that apply to SFRJ military and state employees, and this binds the right to the criterion of citizenship. So, the government's reply to my question today is, of course, an argument that the argument set out in the fourth indent is withdrawn because it is not true. She's not real. Now, I don't know if we can propose an amendment so that at least this part of the argument is dropped. Colleagues and colleagues, that I will not be a proposal, I would like to conclude with an invitation to all those who are active in Slovenian politics so that we do not defile the Republic of Slovenia abroad. The Republic of Slovenia does not deserve to take advantage of the complex political situation in Slovenia and simply speak ill of the country of the Republic of Slovenia in institutions in Europe. I have recently been to Brussels and have been asked in several places about this issue. I think that I have informed the eminent, influential representatives of European policy, including some of the Presidents of governments, in a very corrective way about this issue. And I'm sure it's the duty of all of us to do so. We cannot as politicians prevent civil society associations from doing this, this is their responsibility and opportunity. But for God's sake, we can't follow the politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u146	Now he gets the word Irma Pavlinič Krebs for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u147	Mr Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The topic of today's debate is, of course, what we did in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club a week ago, when we took the system law seriously and responsibly, we were afraid that it would happen, we were afraid another request for a referendum would be submitted. We did not know whether the requirement for a previous legislative referendum or a subsequent one would be a delay in determining the first referendum, all in the desire of a rational approach. So, if there's so much desire for referendums, let's at least try to rationally sign a referendum for one day. But it is clear from the referendum questions that Mr Janez Janša and Mr Andrej Bajuk and thousands of signatories oppose everything the Constitutional Court has decided. The Legal and Legislative Service reminds us that the issues are partly constitutionally controversial. I do not doubt the professional competence of the two leading representatives of the two major opposition parties. I am afraid that they are clearly aware of the constitutional contentions of these issues. Why? It is read and heard in the media that they are already preparing a new referendum initiative. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia said on the Internal Policy Committee this morning that they would not object to constitutional opinions. Just what, actually, I wonder. I'm sure they've considered the questions professionally. The questions are clear, the questions are that they want to be offered to the electorate and the electorate for the referendum, so that they decide as legislators and legislators. Thus, such constitutionally controversial issues, as we are now assessing, may be raised as a result of the delay in this procedure, so that the Government and the National Assembly are burdened indefinitely on this issue, and not in any way with the aim of solving it properly at any time by constitutional law. No, they say opposition MPs and MPs. Their desire to repair guilt is well-intentioned. Why can we, in fact, no longer believe this well - intentionedness? Exactly when we adopted the system law a week ago, both on the Internal Policy Committee and in this National Assembly, we made a deal with your amendments, unfortunately not with you, because you obstructed the meeting. But once again with these questions that you are now offering to the voters and voters, we can prove that your views are already, I think, completely changing for the twentieth time. At the time of the adoption of the system law, we have undeniably been able to prove that you offered to the system law two months ago one type of amendments, at a meeting of the national assembly of another type of amendments, and today we would ask the electorate and the electorate completely a third of what you have not offered to date. Therefore, unfortunately we can no longer trust you, and this time of reconciliation, Mr Podobnik, you very precisely and well know, is moving away. Not on our side, on the other hand. Just a few cases. The actual residence of these people needs to be verified in every particular detail. This has been recorded a hundred times in the system law. According to our proposals for amendments, and according to your proposals for amendments to this law. In the referendum question, you do not really care about life anymore, but you are only interested in the answer to the question whether the deleted by 25.2.1992 submitted a request. We've already discussed this with you, and I wouldn't repeat that I'm not stalling. Date of submission of the application for a permanent residence permit. The government has proposed five years in the basic law. Your amendment to the system law from two months ago reduced this deadline to one year. In our negotiations with you on the constitutional law, we have adopted this solution, and the system law contains a period of one year. You're asking today if you want to ask voters and voters if they're for a six-month term. It hasn't come out of your mouth for six months. Next question. The National Assembly, honourable Mr. Podobnik, has adopted a solution on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, I am talking about the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party that the proposal of the system law contains a solution to refuse to issue a permit, and I quote: "an individual who would like to obtain a permanent residence permit will not receive it," in the event that, as an active military or civilian person employed in the Yugoslav People's Army, he did not respond to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 27.6.1991 and directly participated in armed conflicts in JLA's aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, unless it proves that the Presidency's call did not respond because he would put himself and family members at risk." I do not intend to comment on the constitutional adequacy of this solution. I don't mean to argue. But don't say there's no solution to this system law. Because you've been in trouble with her all along, she's built into a system law. Now we're going to ask voters and voters something completely different. It has already been presented that I do not repeat myself. And a limitation on compensation. We have repeatedly said that the system law has also stated that intangible damage in money will not be paid off. Several times it has been said that after a careful proportionality test it is possible to limit compensation if the public and social benefits of the State of Slovenia are at risk and so on. The views on the adoption of the system law were considered and incorporated. Today you want to ask voters and voters something completely different. In the parliamentary group, of course, we want the constitutional admissibility of possible legal solutions, as proposed, to be assessed at this stage. On the one hand, of course, because of the fear that they are proposed on purpose because you are offering a new referendum initiative with a desire to stall. Why? In particular, if we went to a referendum without a constitutional judgment and adopted a law with such solutions as people would like at the referendum, for example, such a law would, of course, be re-examined by the Constitutional Court. And if the built-in solutions were to be counter-constitutional again, I think the second or third time such a law on the settlement of the deleted issue would be repealed and the state would be dealing with the problem once again. Therefore, of course, we support the constitutional assessment of referendum issues. Well, if you want, another re-offer by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. All in the desire for a constitutionally definitive solution to the problem of the deleted. We estimate we don't need a referendum. All the questions you want to address to citizens and citizens, to be decided by them and to be recognized by the Constitutional Court after this constitutional conformity assessment, can be incorporated into the system law, without a referendum, without any unnecessary costs. What we have put in place so far, we want to do again. All those questions that you are referring to citizens and citizens to resolve at the referendum will be passed by constitutional review, and we are prepared to incorporate them into the system law. We don't need a referendum. And there is something else that needs to be highlighted. Every law we adopt in this country must be in accordance with the Constitution, either adopted by the National Assembly as a legislator or by people, citizens and citizens when they decide on the law as a legislator in a referendum. It is therefore right that before people are ever asked to have the Constitutional Court decide on the compatibility of such issues with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u148	Thank you. The text shall be given to Saša Peče for the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u149	Your Honors are here! Another offer from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Another offer of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which will have the sole effect of stalling, blurring and that someone else in this country will know even fewer people what it is. The matter itself of appointed, deleted, of course, is the most crystalline and yet clear or clear, however you wish, was shown to the citizens at the end of last year. Since the Constitutional Court has received an initiative for this assessment every day, and for that assessment, to assess judgment and similar nonsense, it has, of course, been concerned with citizens and citizens, regardless of their value, it is no longer clear because it is also impossible to monitor the complications caused by the offers of liberal democracy through daily newspapers. I am extremely glad today to have heard the representative before me say that this is the last offer. Because if this is the last offer, it means that there will be no more others and that we will come close to the final solution. It's the only way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u150	There's no controversy with the previous debater. First, your Group's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u151	object to this national assembly being brought to a constitutional court. [[...]] With regard to the self-described deleted, this is already the 15th act that this National Assembly refers to or wishes to refer to the Constitutional Court, of course, under the pretext that the Constitutional Court, as a force of the wise authority, will determine what is right for our citizens and what is wrong, but, of course, is the tendency to actively involve the Constitutional Court, both by the President-in-Office of the State Assembly and by the ruling majority or, ultimately, by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia, solely in the pursuit of time. And let someone else say that just ruling parties don't want this topic for the election theme. Personally, I am sorry that we have not bridged or resolved matters in the past year, so that at least this year we can also meet with very important topics that you do not want to put on the table. So with the effects unfortunately negative, the influences of the European Union. But of course, decisions are in the hands of many more powerful ones, and the fact is that you are now more powerful in ruling parties. Finally, what indicated was the fact that, in the framework of the Internal Policy Committee, that the expert working body was supposed to have had a preliminary hearing in plenary session in order to have the debates here and the debates here as short as possible, thoroughly and qualitatively reviewed a certain act of law, at this point in time the law before us. However, of course, the Internal Policy Committee has links or links to the working body only on behalf. The fact is that leading or chairing a committee by Mr Lavrinc has only led to the fact that this is only an extension of a single mind of liberal democracy. And that today, or at the previous meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, it has enforced the demands of the United Letters and of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, as determined by their lawyers, namely those both the media and the minister, as well as the great crowd of peacekeepers who were all opposed to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, that in the referendum question there are 13 violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act. At the same time, this same working body did not gain so much wisdom that, like the usual procedure in other working bodies or even in plenary sessions, it would, of course, be asked by the proposer, to extend or clarify the issue, of course, the apparent problem which is intended solely and solely to confuse matters. Before me, one of the leaders of the parliamentary groups spoke about this. However, the fact is that all the views of the committee, both to the precise act before us today and to the related acts that we have encountered in the National Assembly on the issue of self-exposure many times, point solely to ignorance, ignorance towards people with different views or with different solutions to the matter. A few times before me, it was said how generous offers were made after compromises. But, you know, it's very strange compromises when you don't accept one out of a thousand and one amendments when you don't accept one out of a thousand and one ideas. You cannot then speak, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling parties, that you are ready for some negotiation. You know, negotiation means getting closer. But talking about getting closer and creating a marriage act that will satisfy everything while keeping a fig in your pocket is, of course, at the very least irresponsible. And that is why there are referendums in our country - because the government of the Republic of Slovenia on the one hand and on the other, the majority in the National Assembly, always following the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, does not take into account the opposition - I do not claim that the opposition is the smartest - but it does not take into account the social partners, it does not take into account the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, nothing. I believe, and I have said several times, the Liberal Democracy has been given a mandate to run our country, but it has not been given a mandate to destroy our country. And in any case, the purpose of the national assembly is to create laws that will reflect positively. And today's work, both on the committee and at the current meeting of the National Assembly, certainly does not indicate any solution that would be proud of citizens and citizens. It suggests even more, in the opposite direction, that unfortunately, the ruling policy has decided to reward both in financial or material form and in intangible form those who have not taken advantage of their potential for this or that reason were these three reasons. First of all, they were war aggressors. Others, they were speculators. And thirdly, there were some small people who did not even know during the period of independence that the Republic of Slovenia was on its own. And whether citizens and citizens of our country should bear financial consequences not only because of these three groups, but also because of the budgetary consequences that will take place in mania in other areas. And in the national party, we've always said no to this and to this day. We would also like the National Assembly to make excuses once and for all, at least in this mandate, and to show that it is proud of the Slovenian National Assembly. Not only would this be an exclusive and very beautiful journey for the functioning of Slovenian institutions within the institutions of the European Union. But most importantly at this point, it would be important to show citizens and citizens that our basic concern is for Slovenians and Slovenes. But, of course, government policy is planned differently. The original sin under point B, if marked under point A, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was not based on a period of independence, therefore on past values and was not based on either the consequences or assumptions of what such a decision would entail for citizens and citizens, is, of course, the original sin under point B of course, and the vision of the Minister as to how he would resolve or resolve, however you wish, the decision of the Constitutional Court. That he decided to go with two laws, systemically and technically. At the time, the big words of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were that they would be the legal basis for the decision-making of these two laws, so that they were absolutely necessary. Today we see that there are no laws, but that we have two negative consequences. The first to resolve the existing situation is a request for two referendums. And secondly, that the minister broke all the words given to this speaker, as well as before the public, and began to issue decisions that passed the law. Although you always forget this, government policy, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in this area is very clear. We would need a law to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that, of course, the referendum at this time is still, after our assessment, the only hope that we will maintain such values so far and that we, citizens and citizens, and Europe and everyone else in the world, will tell us that we are Slovenians. That's to get these two referendums out. In order for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to gain so much wisdom and so much credibility and so much credibility that it would say in advance that it would respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative and that it would say that the result would be both a referendum and a referendum binding on the government. That the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare such a law that will reflect the content and the meaning of the referendum decision. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared to do so. He's not even ready to do that. Even more, all these days since 1.1.2004, there are individual policies that, more than vehemently, follow each other in the government or in this national assembly, say, "for me, Slovenian legislation, which I myself have adopted or helped to ensure that it is adopted, does not apply." And this is a parallel sad story that some of you, including the Prime Minister, have put yourself on top of Slovenian legislation. We are also convinced in the national party that the referendums unfortunately also point to the opposition's powerlessness, suggesting that government representatives are prepared to trample every idea at all costs. Although this meeting and the last extraordinary meeting of the previous week have shown itself in these days, and it has indicated that a number of the solutions proposed by a number of opposition parties when considering the technical and systemic law have been rejected, today is acceptable to you. What I'm saying is that many of the ways that this National Assembly has taken are, of course, to ignore the other problems. Because you kicked or followed the idea of one individual, Mr. Bohintz. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we claim that there was no deletion. Everyone had the opportunity to settle a status that he didn't want, for whatever reason. I'm not gonna worry about why someone didn't want to settle their status. It's his right not to take care of him. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that in 1992 180,000 people settled the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. That between 1992 and 1995, approximately 30,000 people made arrangements for temporary residence. And a few thousand people have arranged for permanent residence status. So no one in this country can say that the odds were not today. If this option has taken advantage of 200 and a few thousand people, two hundred and several thousand people. There are some left that didn't work out for one reason or another, and I'm not going to let go anymore. It's their right not to have them handle it. But I believe they're sorry today that they're sorry that they didn't get their status. But I firmly believe that, therefore, we must not be financially burdened citizens of our country. Also a sad story in the whole matter and, of course, the emphasis and role of Slovenian media. It's really sad. If we just look at the journals and the weeks, we'll see where they're headed. To uplift individual stories, how poor they are, how shocking the stories of individual deleted ones are. If we look at the information or educational broadcasts of national television, we will see that these things are happening like running lanes. On the other hand, they see nothing, neither the media nor you government policy, about Tobacco, about Vidu Krška about the forecast of the new 300 unemployed, which will or will be caused by the Belgian takeover of the New Ljubljana Bank. No, no, no. You don't talk about it all of a sudden. And despite the behavior of each of you in the '90s that the right to work exists. The right to citizenship, that is, the story of the deleted, does not exist. And there is no right to citizenship. The conditions must be met. Therefore, in the national party, we cannot understand those speakers before us who said what we must do. Or I'll start a little different. If the United List of Social Democrats has allowed itself to say that we must understand the deleted, then I, on behalf of the national party, allow myself to say that you must understand the Slovenians and the Slovenes, to ensure that they hope to have a period of independence. But of course, the predators of transition you have done your part, hold with friends of capital and hold with those that allow you to circulate capital, but of course this is too little. And now we come to human rights, to those rights that you always stress today both as a government and as a ruling party, that human rights cannot be discussed at the referendum, although in the same sentence you point out that the referendum is the most democratic form of decision-making in our country. Yeah, well, then where do we talk about human rights? Should we copy them from another country's constitution? Or should we simply leave them to the Internal Policy Committee, so that they can be determined, even though we all know how things are going there. But whoever doesn't agree to the referendum doesn't trust our country. He also does not trust, nor does he trust that the imaginary internal political problems hang on the big bell of Europe and try to play under this game, like the United List, to create a problem and appeal to the naive Slovenian people, czech, and Europe sees us that way. No, we're not that naive of Slovenians and Slovenes either. I personally believe that the referendum will show its own. However, I would very much like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give at least this time an opportunity to direct and say that it will respect the referendum will. In the national party, we object to the report and to the desire of the Internal Policy Committee, which I have already said is not an internal policy committee, but merely an extension of the Liberal Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u152	Now she has the word of her colleague Maja Zupan. She will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by her colleague Janez Janša. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! Dear Mr. Secretary! The proposed initiative with almost 4000 signatures on behalf of voters and voters to collect signatures for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on a proposal for a system law aims to better address the status of foreigners with the citizenship of other countries of the former Yugoslavia in Slovenia, which had registered permanent residence on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. Solutions shall be made in order to enable each person in this situation to begin the procedure with an appropriate role in which the circumstances which prevented the timely regulation of the status in accordance with the basic instrument are specified; to set a deadline of 6 months for the filing of the application back after the law has been applied; to recognise the status only to persons who are found to have sought to regulate the status but failed to do so because of objective circumstances; to define the possibility of the renewal of the procedure, to exempt a person of the Yugoslav People's Army who did not respond to the call for a breach or acted against the values of independence and independence; to exclude retroactivity in relation to damages and, if you also wish, to adequately qualify for action in relation to the issuance of decisions without explicit grounds of law or legal provision, in accordance with the Constitution. The fact is that the so-called deleted were already misinterpreted at the start, as the solutions to the system law were flawed and flawed and, on the other hand, legal issues that some of them might have long-term adverse consequences for Slovenia, either in terms of financial nature or in terms of international relations, have opened up. Citizens and citizens have already expressed their views early enough through various polls, round tables, talks, letters and, last but not least, in our parliamentary offices and have encouraged us to strive for different solutions than the government has presented. In environments where we are fully aware of the dimensions of the problem, we would discuss this properly and try to regulate and develop democratic social bargaining with a rational consensus. But it wasn't possible with us. As soon as someone gave different solutions, he was an impatient alixenophobic. Politicians in power have come up with thesis, since we have the power to decide, if it does not suit anyone, to settle the matter in the next elections, our electoral success requires us to take responsibilities and decisions and so on. However, we all know that in the elections the electorate formally gives, in fact, and in substance, they do not give the opinion to their representatives to decide on anything. In fact, elected representatives are elected to transfer citizens' will to the level of regulation of common matters. It is a great concern, however, that this basic electoral mandate is understood by Members as a mandate to decide everything that most electorate and electorate think otherwise. It is a question of participation, in which cases and how Members should consult with voters, even if it is the decision of the Constitutional Court. The problem of voter participation is possible in a number of ways, and one of them is also a referendum. A good policy that wants real democracy in practice is to create an environment for a quality debate in which politics is only a good organiser and listener, and after the consolidation of national will, a good professional realiser of the objectives adopted by consensus. Although our ruling policy has allowed and allowed for debate, even in extraordinary sessions that have lingered and lingered far into the night, as if it were an emergency, it was not a good listener. Therefore, the position and opposition are still standing by and each one of them is working to resolve this issue, with the opposition working much more closely with the electorate, so we can understand the difference and the struggle between the position and the opposition as the operational inability of the ruling coalition and, on the other hand, the form of control and the possibility that the opposition has with the referendum. This should certainly be a reminder to the ruling coalition that the problem of democratic relations and fair co-decision in shaping the basis for each other's future Europe is a central, political and technical problem that it will have to solve differently than it has been used to. The initiative of voters and voters to call for a previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a system law - we also see the initiative in the light of the fact that citizens and citizens will be present at the referendum of the ruling Mr. Anderlič, may I speak? [[...]] Thank you very much. Please, you're disturbing me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u154	Please, buddy. Comrade Zupanova, you have the word, you have the only word, no one jumps into your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u155	We don't have a lot of women, so it's not nice to be disturbed. Thank you very much. So we also see the initiative to call for a previous legislative referendum in this light that citizens and citizens in the referendum who are ruling with their reply will be told that not only are so-called deleted in our society, but there are still a whole range of problems, 13 000 effectively deleted disabled people, deleted veterans of the war on Slovenia, if you want to have 100 000 rights deleted, even better silenced within voluntary health insurance, and all those who pay the premium would not need it. So it's more than 75 years old, people with disabilities, those who receive pensions below 45 thousand, 100,000 who are unemployed and cheated in one way or another, and a whole range of others for whom the current government has no hearing. Therefore, in our New Slovenia Group, we support the initiative to collect signatures in support of the call for a referendum and we oppose the decision by requiring the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the request for a previous legislative referendum is contrary to the Constitution, because we believe that this is just an interim manoeuvre that wastes time for a smart solution and raises a political fever without need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u156	Thank you very much. My colleague Janez Janša, a colleague of Levich, now has the floor, although I have a question written here. He's canceling the debate, okay. Then he is a colleague of Janez Janša, the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u157	Thanks again for saying that. We are discussing a proposal on which the result of the vote is already well known. Representatives of the ruling coalition have already announced this to us in advance. What we have proposed is said to be unconstitutional only after thirteen points. Indeed, the unknowable depth of the constitutional judgment of the rulings. I suggest that the next time you write down so many points, what if everything is unconstitutional, you simply write that the opposition is unconstitutional, it will be simpler all together. Even in some of the speeches we've heard in the last days of the performances, I think it was the lyrics you pulled out there in 1975, 1976, and you just replaced the word internal enemy with the word opposition. Otherwise, it was the same rumor of hatred. The opinion we have before us and which seeks to justify why our proposal for a referendum is unconstitutional is political Latvian. Those who wrote this come from some other times that we thought were long behind us. It is also another matter of dealing with this law that you have proposed, wasting time, that we have already said it several times in advance. These solutions to the problem that arose at the formal level at the level of the Constitutional Court decision which entered into the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument and to the national assemblies or legislators cannot be resolved by ordinary law. If that were possible, we'd probably do it again. You have almost a two-thirds majority, so far none of that. We have proposed solutions in the constitutional law, which we have withdrawn after you have begun to issue decisions because you have brought the matter in a completely unproductive direction. A week ago, we heard a lot about the motives for voting against the Constitution and why the decision to call the referendum is being undermined and this was based on the thesis that we would like to have two referendums on the same day. You have this opportunity today. There is only an instrument under the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and by the Constitution, with which it is possible to have two referendums on the same day on two laws, which have been introduced with a great time difference. This is by simply turning the referendum question ahead of you from an initiative to a request, and in this case you can also describe this referendum on 4 April. This is now in your hands, what you stood for a week ago, which is why you excused the vote in contravention of the law, you can now do. But, no, you are now sending these questions to the Constitutional Court, if what we are proposing is virtually unconstitutional, although not even all the parties to the government coalition, as we have previously heard here, agree on the performance of the President of the Slovenian People's Party. So you're not talking about co-existence. You're talking about something else. Many words were made in the reasoning of this proposal for these questions to go to the Constitutional Court, various statements, letters, signatures of many who say they sign support for this act were cited. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the resolution, as proposed by most of the government's coalition on the issue of deleted, was already at the outset, as already in April 2003, has been problematic by a whole species, hundreds of prominent signatories, and allow me to quote this briefly. The statement, which was published on 18 April 2003, states: "This is not only a politically extremely delicate but also a legally highly questionable intervention within the jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power and in this respect the entire legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This intervention can seriously undermine the principle of trust in the law on which the rule of law is based. In the latter extreme, however, it is particularly an attempt to re-evaluate the fundamental principles of our statehood, and the reference to the naked legal technique in our firm conviction cannot even be used as an excuse." The signatories Evgen Bavčar, Vinko Beznik, Polde Bibič, Viktor Blažič, Niko Grafenauer, Tone Hrovat, Doctor Matjaž Kmecl, Tone Kuntner, Srečko Lisjak, Rudi Spain, Dane Zajc, Boris Pahor, Tone Gogala, Sašo Ugan, Anton Nanut, Lojze Lebič, Pavle Sveta, Tone Pavček, Vlado Zabot and hundreds more. And this is a statement of 18 April 2003, half a year before the opposition even took a position on this issue, because we believed in some determination of the government coalition to try to find a solution to the constitutional nature of the problem that also arose at this level. When we tabled this initiative for the referendum, we even experienced the obvious fact that we want to destroy Slovenian independence, or what has been described as good intentions in the basic constitutional charter. In Slovenia's independence, Slovenia guaranteed all possible rights; it chose the most liberal approach among all countries that had gained independence, but guaranteed these rights to those who wanted them. However, it is impossible to grant a right to someone who does not want to or who is not willing to do anything to enforce it. While we welcome perhaps the first clear and public definition of Liberal Democracy in support of Slovenian independence, we fear that it has come 13 years too late. 13 years ago, this party voted against the law on defence, against the law on military matters, against the defence budget, against all concrete measures of Slovenian independence. Also what we experienced at the beginning of this session [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u158	Please. When the debate is over, you too will have the opportunity, Comrade Anderlich, to clarify your position. I understand everything, once again, please, Comrade Anderlich! You will all have the right to explain your position so that we do not fall into the word of a speaker. However, we are all obliged to hold the subject of discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u159	Also, what he tried to do at the beginning of the session was to make this national assembly bow to Ivan Starina, a man who was wounded in 1991 when he defended the radio and television transmitter on Kum and was virtually everything since then immobile, partly unconscious, he died for 13 years, a medallion with the highest national decoration, a sign of freedom, and it was somehow rejected, I think he talks a lot about the state of the spirit in this country. There was no official representative of the State at the funeral. The Ministry of Defense didn't even send a military service. Gentlemen, no official representative of either the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family, which is the mother of the Ministry of Veteran Affairs, or a representative of the President of the State, even though it was the funeral of the recipient with the highest national recognition. I mean, it was true, for those of us who were there, it was perfectly clear what this country's relationship to Slovenian independence is, and for another thing, we have an extraordinary meeting virtually every day. In the law that we want to give to the referendum and change it this way, you have an indent written in Article 5, which I hope came by mistake because it is a very severe cynicism. This indent says: "This status is not justified by someone who, as an active military or civilian person employed in JLA, did not respond to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 27.6.1991 and directly participated in armed conflicts in JLA's aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, etc. "I say, there are not enough criteria that are only verifiable because offenders are a formal category found in individual procedures. You would also narrow it down to virtually excluding only those who participated directly in armed conflicts. If any criteria are more unfair than what you're trying to enforce here, then I really don't know where we stand. It is said that someone who has decided to send soldiers into an armed conflict is not guilty, but he who was sent there had nothing to do with it, for example, and did not violate any convention there, and that will be subject to sanctions. This is the wrong world. My dears, this is the war forecast that Slovenia received in 1991. Commander General Mag is signed. Conrad Kolishek. He says: "I inform you that the task of the 5th Military Area to take over all border crossings is to secure the SFRJ, etc. We will carry out the task unconditionally, which means that we will also comply with the rules of military use of units. Every resistance will be broken, and the commanders and executioners will answer." The General, who sent troops to attack Slovenia, unlawfully received a Slovenian passport in the mid-1990s and in Žalec, where he now lives, was invited by the Mayor of Liberal Democracy, Mr Posedelj as an honorary guest to celebrate the day of Statehood. But here you would still sanction those who this general has sent into armed conflict. So, from this approach, this extremely cynical, unfair approach shows who you are actually dealing with. There have been a lot of debates about this, because the government coalition on this subject is far from being about voters, rather about voters losing, about the principles of respect for human rights and so on, and so on, and so on, we have heard a lot. I don't think he believed that. Because if this coalition were for these principles, it would have been in principle until now, but we have heard thousands of representatives of this government saying that they are working pragmatically, not in principle. I don't know why we'd be in charge of this. And there's a really big question why so much stubbornness at some point where even the constitution is being violated and where we actually get letters that say, so far we've elected a unified list or LDS, from now on, we're not going to get them anymore. Perhaps the answer is precisely in this Article 5 indent, which I have read, where you would sacrifice those who directly participated in armed conflicts, and those who chose to do so would be exempt. We have recently read an interview with the director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, whom you are now trying to replace, has already published a call saying literally: "The Slovenian Government, the Slovenian Foreign Ministry has prevented us from entering the Serbian archives or Yugoslav archives through the Embassy in Belgrade". You could have read this interview. This is about the man your government has appointed to this position, and he says that this same government has also prevented him from entering the former Yugoslav archive. So there must be something in these archives that this government is afraid of. And the generals of this rank, which I quoted earlier, and the colonels and those who are now getting their decisions back, probably have some of these archives. And there's a lot of fear about that, so it's insistence. I believe that Mrs Krebs is not afraid of this or Mr Pahor or anyone from this younger generation, but I think there are a lot of things there that some Mr. Ribič is afraid of, and Ptrc doesn't want anyone to come to the Slovenian archives at any time. Maybe this is where we're looking for motive. I think we'd be a lot closer than if we were looking for him in principle. And I would suggest that those of you who have nothing to do with it, ask yourself, for once, whether or not you're playing a game that protects someone you know you're protecting. We have also heard a lot about how virtually everyone who is not satisfied here and who belongs to the so-called category of deleted, so-called deleted, can achieve their rights in the European Court of Justice. Maybe, but I don't mind each of them going to the European Court on a case-by-case basis. Where this individual procedure, where everyone will have to prove their point, it is said, will have to do what we too stand for here to do. There will be no automatic decisions for back, as you now give them, there will be no retroactive solutions, but there will be a procedure that is the same for all. So we have no problems with the European Court of Justice. In addition, I must say that there are already thousands of cases of greater importance from Slovenia in this court, because they are not being resolved here by the authorities. Of course, sometimes it sounds strange, if someone abroad says, here is the Constitutional Court's decision to write this and that, and Parliament is now questioning how to settle matters. I agree, but it sounds even more strange when those abroad look at who's all in this constitutional court. I'd say how is it possible that in the Constitutional Court you have the ideologies of the former regime, the key people. How can you say that this is a neutral, non-political court? There is no problem in explaining the problems we have with the Constitutional Court when we present this composition. So we have not put forward this referendum initiative because we would think that anything can be resolved by this ordinary law. We have invested it in order to prevent any solution that goes to the detriment of this country and all taxpayers in this country. We still think it was the only way to make things elegant, constitutional law. This instrument is now significantly more difficult to use because you are issuing decisions that make the matter completely complicated. In this opinion, where you have condemned the opposition to violate the Constitution in 13 points, however, there is something we are grateful for. With this strong talk of how there will be no compensation, how this is all obsolete and so on, you have clearly written here on the other hand that the complete exclusion of compensation in relation to the matters to which it relates, according to our assessment - of course, according to your assessment - is not consistent with the Constitution and so on, so it is possible to limit the compensation, but it is not possible to exclude it. So don't say no compensation! Once they are not available, you write here that they cannot be excluded - in an opinion that you will now vote on. Well, it's perfectly clear. At a time when we were negotiating a clever solution, we were all at a crossroads where several different paths were available. In our view, there was only one right, this is the solution to this problem with constitutional law. Then, in the middle of the negotiations, without being informed, it turned, in our opinion, into a dead end. You proposed this law, which is now the subject of a referendum initiative, and then last week the decree was still undermined, which should not have been undermined and then, far from the worst, the government began to issue decisions without a legal basis. Three long steps have been taken into a dead end, and there, excuse me, most of the government coalition you are today. We stayed where you left us in the middle of the negotiations, at the intersection. We just can't get on the right path either, because we don't have enough votes, we don't have a majority, we're just waiting at the intersection to get you back. And one day you'll have to come back, because from every dead end, you have to go back to the intersection. You take a few steps into a dead end. It's a long way back. So I suggest you turn around as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u160	Thank you very much. With the performance by colleague Janez Janša, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups. We will now go to the debate of colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me remind you that this item of the agenda also has an agreement to vote 10 minutes after the last debater. Several colleagues and colleagues have already given up their discussions, so that the debate is supposed to be shorter, as shown by the timeline when it is due to end in four hours. First, my friend Aurelio Yuri. Excuse me? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u161	Mr President, I ask that when a speaker goes on behalf of or on behalf of a parliamentary group, he is lying, do not speak of an item on the agenda to remind him. The modest desire to talk about things that are on the agenda, but not that, you know, you were, after all, present, if you were forgiven so as not to be in the assembly at the time, of course, you could have believed that you did not understand the lies that Mr Janša here said on behalf of one of the parliamentary parties, and I ask you to be gentle about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u162	As with all the other shows, please, I'll give you my word just to explain. [[...]] As with all performances, it is the duty of colleagues to keep the subject under discussion. I have repeatedly, especially on this subject, pointed out that it is extremely difficult to control or draw boundaries where it is or not. And in this sense, of course, we are all responsible for sticking to it. I don't know what to say now, Comrade Janša, to what was said.He just asked me to say it again, and that's what I said. I also propose later that we continue the debate peacefully and focus on substantive issues. Comrade Yuri, you have the floor; the first one behind you is Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u163	Thank you, President. I will start with the last speaker, my colleague Janša, and I will comment on his statement that somehow in Europe they are surprised to have an ideologist of the former system in our constitutional court and so on. No one - I have not seen the document of the competent authority, the competent persons of the European Union or the Council of Europe - has questioned the composition of the Constitutional Court in our country. Secondly, we have the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who has formally identified himself to the issue of deleted persons and has also communicated his position to us, as well as the desire to move as soon as possible towards the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. There was a lot of talk about these international connections - colleague Podobnik earlier talked about talking to eminent politicians in Europe and also presented them with a problem. You are in the European Parliament - colleague Brejc and colleague Podobnik - we are in the Council of Europe, I was not alone in the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, so you have every opportunity to clarify matters. However, for the time being, even though you belong to the most powerful European party, you have failed to convince your colleagues and partners to intervene through Gil-Robles and change his decision and his assessment. He's still holding on to that for the time being. And if we follow his assessment, we are obliged as soon as possible, unfortunately we are already late, to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. So much for international connections and messages. On the proposal for a decision itself - I will support it - to require a constitutional assessment of the question or questions sent. On the referendum question that you have raised, without even following the assessments of our Internal Policy Committee, I myself have created a judgment, and I would pass it. The purpose pursued by the referendum proposed by the proposer at the expense of the system law follows the accuracy of the first referendum on technical law. Unlike the fact that the first serves only to break some unnecessary law, the Constitutional Court has told us about it, and to demolish the government, of course, you admit it yourself. The second referendum, however, benefits from redirecting the content or trying to divert the content of the system law away from the purpose for which this law was created, or from the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. And the reorientation proposed by the proposer and put into the hands of the electorate and the electorate is such that, in my opinion, the constitution can be placed in the paper container, so that we can be at least ecologically sensitive. The Constitutional Court also taught us, as I did - and admit it - that these so-called deleted persons were permanently residing in Slovenia when they became independent, and to whom no one should have been deprived of the right to permanent residence, in particular without training on legal protection, regardless of the status of the person they were in, and whether they had already arranged or tried to regulate it. The first indent of the referendum question makes sense when it forces a deleted person into a process of considerable difficulty in order to demonstrate the eligibility of the right already recognised by the Constitutional Court. But the flowers are my fourth and seventh indents. While the procedure is already so demanding and so unfair or in non-conformity with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, its renewal or revision could be required by the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia. What address? Because the opposite side of veterans, or independents, was to be wiped out. What about the other invaders, the United North and so forth? With all due respect to the veteran organization. And what makes the thesis that they should have been wiped out against independence because they did not want or could not arrange citizenship? Look, I'll tell you my case. My mother's been in Cyprus for 53 years. If it wasn't for me and my brother to arrange her status, I wouldn't be able to find myself on the delete list today. If we look at this logic of course to recognize the priority and status of an administrative process - will we write down somewhere that the request, what do I know, for the renewal of the procedure for declaring a natural park and for the protection of a fauna in it can be made by a hunting union? Should a professional fisherman's association decide on the maritime boundary? These joint associations, of course, have no role to play in the administrative procedure. However, the second flower was the last or seventh indent, whereby the administrative authority, by issuing the decision in return, as ordered and ordered by the Constitutional Court, would have blamed a worse crime. I am pleased, however, that colleagues from the People's Party also oppose this line. Let it be added that anyone who raises a strong question about the correctness of Demos ’ rule is worthy of persecution and expulsion, and the measure will be full. At the end of the colleague and colleagues, we continue to talk and to inform the public that the issue of decisions - according to your interpretation - should take place without the explicit basis of the law or the law. It is true that, in the case of technical law itself, I have taken possession of this problem, and the Constitutional Court has once again taught me that, without the legal basis, an deletion has been made, so such an deletion is illegal, not the removal of it. The removal of this erasure, in so far as it has been unlawfully deleted, is legal and based on the legislation in force at that time and the legislation in force today. If we question this, I regret that part of the professional public, of course, interprets the story differently, as well as to the public, who will be invited to the referendum, a little more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u164	There's a colleague of Janez Janša's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u165	So, when my colleague Yuri called, I think he's going to read us that famous letter he sent to Brussels, but we were cut short for it. Of course, this defence of the composition of the current Constitutional Court was completely over, because in no European country, in no constitutional court will you get a former president of a political party - he is not, nor is a democratic political party. However, we have in the Constitutional Court a party president who ruled without an election, and therefore it is very difficult to say that we have a non-political constitution of a constitutional court. Go to Brussels and explain this to those who understand what a European category is. I also understand this impatience of Mr Yuri to the veterans of the war on Slovenia, because during the war he drove food and water unit JLA, not territorial defence units and we know where his heart is. But what did his voters think of it, and he saw it the last time he performed on TV Koper's live contact show.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u166	Comrade Yuri only on the parts that you disagree with, then we will conclude this discussion, because now there is no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u167	No, no, no controversy, I'm just informing my colleague Janša that I was negotiating at the time and carrying bread in agreement with the territorial defence and administration of internal affairs and with the support of the vast majority of Korčank and Koprčany. Regarding my letter in Brussels - I do not know which famous letter you are talking about in Brussels. Some personal correspondence with someone is a different matter. I don't know what letter I'm supposed to send to Brussels, but I'd appreciate it if you introduced him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u168	Comrade Valentin Pohorec now has the floor for him, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The referendum issue that we have before us seems to me, for the first time, extremely extensive, complicated and strongly doubt that most voters will be able to make the right decision on the basis of the content of this. A lot of people won't even read it. I know, from experience, I too, how people act, would make decisions based on what TV screens see, hear, and believe. That's how I think it's hard to ask voters with such a question. It may also doubt whether all these issues are in conformity with the law, with the Constitution, and therefore I agree that the highest legal profession that we have in a country such as the Constitutional Court will give its opinion on this. From the questions raised, however, it is detectable - what has already been said - that new conditions are being put in place; from those who have so far been known and whose majority are already recorded in the system law. And because it's written there and because this adoption of such a law would be disturbing again, we'll just set new conditions and once they're accepted, new conditions - so I don't know when it's over. I therefore rightly doubt the sincerity of willingness to solve the problem, but rather not solve the problem and have an open question for electoral time. One, I think, was made a good offer, which I also support. What the Constitutional Court will assess is not contrary to the Constitution and other laws, to incorporate into the system law; or then to adopt it. I seriously doubt that they would be. Again, we would say what the Constitutional Court has ruled is not, so it does not apply because we do not believe in the Constitutional Court, and we would find a new excuse that we would not be prepared to adopt such an amended system law. Sometimes I feel like there's someone else here who wants to write another indent, what I hear is unfortunately from the media, from public polls, transport for all eraseds, give them bread and milk [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And back to the south. [[..]] Even if it were written down, it would probably confirm the already heated atmosphere - unfortunately, it already is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u170	My friend the Rockman, he's not in the hall. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u171	Thank you. Good evening. I must say that, since we have been discussing this issue in Parliament, I am asking and asking one question that I am also going to raise publicly today: How is it that the then Ministry of Defence of 1992 or has not previously accused any of those who are supposed to be guilty and who are supposed to cause so much damage that they do not deserve our citizenship and permanent residence? No one who deserves such a punishment as to lose their civil rights, one of the worst punishments ever known in law, is now almost without it. I wonder if it was difficult or not, at the time, our security and intelligence service acted well enough to prepare this evidence. I wonder, of course, why not the Attorney General himself file criminal charges. I am sure that it would not take 18,000 and I am sure that if it were against all those against whom this debate is brought this evening, all day and all, and we would be accused and given the appropriate penalties, there would be no reason to delete anyone in Slovenia at all. I'm pretty sure of that. How many of these are, I'm afraid, and maybe someone will even give me that answer today. However, at least I wanted to point out at the previous point that we are actually deceiving the Slovenian public as to what we are deciding in this House. We have also voted on a decision that even some Members do not know that the referendum will not be about citizenship but only about recognition of the status of permanent residence. Even this was discussed by some, even in cases of their own sons, how good they got because they took care of citizenship in time. I submit that the majority of those who signed this initiative, which they are supposed to decide today to go to the Constitutional Court, did not know what she was signing. To claim this because some acquaintances in Brežice reminded me that the signatures had already been collected on Saturday before the meeting of the National Assembly, when we discussed the known matter last Monday. I say because my acquaintances were asked if they wanted to sign, they wanted to see what to sign, and they just said, "Oh, that's against deleted." In this way these 4,000 signatures have been gathered and this way can be gathered in the future for each signature repetition as much as you want, if you can see, what the public's mood is, after a stereotype has been created in Slovenia, that we are talking about those who have acted against Slovenia's interests, and the stereotype that we are talking mainly about Slovenian citizens, of course, of non-Slovenian origin. Which is far from the truth! And we both know the case of a pure Slovenian - I already talked about him - who was erased because he was born as a Slovenian by accident in Zagreb, but he lived from his early youth in Brežica. But there are many cases like this. My neighbor married from Croatia to Slovenia at the age of 20, and my husband died and was left alone, and she had no idea she needed any papers. And we put it all in one basket. And if the Defence Ministry or the Attorney General in 1992 had charged all of this and if the Director of Security and Intelligence had provided all the information, there would not have been any injustice to many who had been unknowingly erased, but also those who were later even arrogant, because they had naively expected to be able to demand the recovery; but they had received even official letters that the official authorities were not resolving the claims, but they were pleased or not to comply with the requests correctly. I know a case like that, too. So it moves me, despite the fact that my parliamentary group will announce that we have to adopt this decision and this constitutional judgment, I am seriously moved not to do so and that this ostrich, which is written here, should go to the Constitutional Court. May voters decide at the referendum that those officials at the Ministry of the Interior who today issue decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, immediately after the referendum, pack the suitcases and go to the Age or to Koper, where the newer prisons are - that is to say here - because I hope that we will not take away their citizenship and delete them, even though the worst penalty is required. Let's think about this; let's maybe meet on the other side of that intersection that we were talking about, but know that you are not right - to many of our citizens, to many of our Slovenians, if you are so nervous about those who are not Slovenians, to the Slovenians, and to a large number, you are not doing the right thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u172	Now, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief, because I don't have any more time. Mosha Diane once said, "Dogs bark, caravan moves on." I understand that more and more. Do we even, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the political option, left or right, realize what we are doing? We are here arguing over laws that are not available and constitutional decisions are already being issued. They are betrayed by a minister who is not, a government that is not, without a legal basis! And that's what we're arguing about. Colleagues and colleagues, one law we voted on, the referendum was supposed to be in April. The second law we are talking about, the issue of chickens or eggs, this law should be dealt with last week in February following a regular procedure. We've been treating him on an extraordinary basis - why? Two options: because, I still claim, you authors of the extraordinary procedure included all elements, articles, three articles of the technical law in this law and wanted to be adopted immediately; or vice versa! You can say that the opposition is guilty because it gave a referendum on a marriage that was forced by extraordinary procedure. Let us all admit that this is true! Let's face it, it's true. It's not fair and it's not fair from all of us to people. Decisions shall be issued, no legal basis, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law shall be issued. We're talking, it's not, it's not! No constitutional category shall be enforced by the Constitution without legal basis. For one marriage, technically, we voted a referendum and it will only apply after people's decisions in April or May, and we are talking about each other at all. It is not fair from us to the people, that is all I want to say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. It's not fair. Don't be afraid of the referendums, let's go to the referendum, and we'll see what people say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u174	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zupanov's? [[He's quitting.]] My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! For a very long time, I was naively convinced that the Liberal Democracy and the United List played a double game to use in all of this process only because of one topic that you had already used before the election of the Bajuk government, that is a quiet, gentle step out of power. This has led me to a very simple fact that this government coalition is terribly, terribly afraid of the coming European Union, especially next year, which will be the most difficult. Why? Because you are already talking about 60,000 and 70,000 unemployed who are supposed to be, because you are talking about textile and shoe factories that you are going to close, you are talking about, or the fact that you have a completely broken pension system, the fact is that it is completely in disarray of the health system, that with terrible problems the Slovenian army is getting into, you don't know where with the college and so on and so on. So, the problems that you've got on your shoulders, you don't have many. It is completely illogical that after so many years of government, exactly your unions, Semolič's unions decide on some strikes to wave in front of TV cameras with some papers about your employees who are honorary and do not know how illegal they serve billions and so on. So, all of this shows whether it shows in my belief that you have so deeply wronged this country that you have no choice but to step down from power and leave, like those last half-years before the elections in another option of ruling this country and, of course, in the subordination of the media you have, in a fully calculated system in the courts where you have your people, the police where you have your people [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u176	Mr. Rupar [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u177	Turn this machine around. [[...]] Mr. President, this is an introduction. spin the apparatus and in a year, for two years you absorb nothing better than either it was not better under the Robbery, or it was not better under Drnovskog, or the LDS government was better. [[...]] And once again in the reformation, when a little bit of cash is filled up, hit it again like you did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u178	Rupar, let's go back. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u179	By Bayuk, back to the government. [[...]] I've been sure of that for a long time. Mr President, believe me, I have a context made and I would ask you not to disturb me, as the rest of you do, please. But when I saw what nervousness, what nervousness comes from this side, when someone is talking about the goatslarism of acts, when you speak a language that the culture of dialogue cannot bear, I can actually see, and I'm sure that you're horribly, terribly climbing in this system. Why?Because the deleted are not the cause of the unhappiness of countless Slovenians and Slovenes. They're not! They can only be a cause. The cause is much deeper and far from erased. You're out of credibility. You're out of it. Liberal democracy and the United List have run out of credibility in front of people, just as it was completely lacking in the Constitutional Court. So that I, like Auschwitz and many others, would not judge the Constitutional Court because it no longer applies. That's what you took from them. You, honourable Members and Members of the ruling coalition. And I'll tell you how -- at least I guess. The Constitutional Court ruled in the case of electoral systems in one year 2000, and you rushed to help by enacting constitutional laws to legitimize or legalise the case completely. That happened to you, and that was as much to forget. But recently, a week ago, you rejected the constitutional decision of the same court and did not vote as you were ordered by the Constitutional Court, and you took away its legitimacy. Not to mention the coup that the Constitutional Court - literally a coup, a constitutional coup - has recently made in this case, when it has given the full possibility that decisions to the so-called deleted are issued without a legal basis. Let's see who the Constitutional Judges are and to whom the Constitutional Judges should I judge this matter. These are Janez Čebulj, Zvonko Fischer, Lojze Janko, Marija Crisper Kramberger, Dragica Wedam Lukić, Milojka Modrijan, Cyril Ribičič, Miriam Skrt and Jože Tratnik. Who are these people? Mr Juri will know most about this, and Mr Potrč, you, because in the previous system, you were sitting at the same table of the same party in the former Yugoslavia. In fact, none of the above can say that he was not a member of your only saving party in that Yugoslav system. I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u180	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u181	And this credibility also falls very, very strongly. It is therefore perfectly logical that these are the people proposed by the President - former President Milan Kučan, and although he had more options, many opportunities, not just this person - for you to receive and you have confirmed them. So it's the extended hand you have in the Constitutional Court that serves you. Now, I will read to you what you, respected liberal Democrats have said, and this is 'because the most undemocratic systems are characterized by the fact that politics has peacefully acquired the right to achieve its objectives' and so on. You yourself say that the most undemocratic system is the one who has set himself up, the Constitutional Court, these are the words spoken by Mrs Pavlovich Krebs on your behalf. Well, even if I missed the name, everyone knows who it is. And you are still talking about any legitimacy of this country, the credibility of the government and the constitutional court! You're making fun of all of the world's Slovenia! Today is the third extraordinary session, the third extraordinary session convened by you, none of you, or anyone, even if it is asked how much it costs; but it also dictates your severe embarrassment and my error when I thought you were actually coming out of power. I'm going to read you one more thing, which, of course, you have also stated, and that is, "that the human rights and freedoms that we have to protect do not have a price." World text! They don't have a price! I will ask you the following questions, and I will ask you for a question or an answer. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] In this House, every normal person is entitled to take the tablets. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[... ...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Warn him to stop bothering me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u182	I must warn you that you are holding the debate, everyone else has no say, must not interfere with your performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But what a price for people who have lost their rights in this country and who have taken away everything that was life, justified, human rights completely, that is, dignity - what you took from them. Jože K. under Kruška, this is a place in Kamnik that no one would laugh at this place. An exemplary entrepreneur, a businessman, like many Slovenians, you took all of them with interest, with loans from various banks, with taking away material benefits - Mr Bohinc, Minister, personally took five TVs and some video records from him. Never and no one paid him, that's proveable, so I'm telling you. And there's no such thing as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u184	Let's get back to the subject of discussion, buddy. This is not the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u185	That you robbed her of her dignity and human rights. [[...]] Ivica Podlipnik, one of the many women in Kranj, who is in the textile factory, and others, has earned 70, 80 thousand a month, and 50 thousand has been rent for the apartment and the cost and could not pay and you gentlemen have thrown her on the road. How much did you take away her dignity and human rights, who's going to pay her back because she's simply a worker? How many unsolved decisions are outlaws, the Constitutional Court ordered and the laws say that they must be corrected for injustice, that I do not speak to residents in these cases already returned, and you do not know them and you do not want to solve them or listen to their problems! How many people are waiting for their right from the Golego Island, the Horn of Kočev? How many people are waiting for the verdicts of the defendants and the plaintiffs, 500 thousand people, such men, gentlemen, you have waiting for their constitutional human rights and I don't know what else! Tobacco factory - one of the first! You did Europe wrong, it's not Europe's fault, it's your fault, Europe didn't sell to a foreigner of this factory, you did it, gentlemen, and also a lot of others: Krško - Cellulose, etc. How many are there? And after all, who shall correct the iniquity of all those who are Croats, Serbs, Muslims who have been granted citizenship, they are hard to do. They also came to me with applications for permanent residences, after work visas, if I could help if I could embezzle. For nothing so much as a correction of guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, who will also correct the injustice to me, who for a year threw in the military a certain aggressor Yugoslav People's Army one year of my life? Would anyone pay me that and other Slovenian boys, including those who stayed there forever? Do I have the right to one year of life I've given up on someone else, some punks? Correct this injustice, and then I will believe you, and I will believe the Constitutional Court! Last but not least, gentlemen, the Constitutional Court, which is supposed to judge, is now to tell you in advance, as I told you last time, what will happen with this constitutional judgment - it is likely that it will receive a negative omen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u186	My friend Yuri has a replica. Just for clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u187	Yes, I will explain, of course, when my colleague Rupar appointed me to sit behind a number of eminent representatives of the Constitutional Court in the previous system. I sat as a "cimmer" with a fellow fisherman who was a member, and I would like to show my colleague Rupar the fact that there were two prominent members of his group, who were also members of the Communists' union in their own time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u188	I'll give you my word just to explain the wrong statement, that's a replica on the replica, because I'm just giving it an extraordinary one. Please, Comrade Rupar, then we are adjourning this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u189	Yeah, I don't doubt that, and I believe in fixing it. And I believe in turned people. And all honor to him who returns! And you know, very negative -- the one you're still insisting on the crimes of the previous system.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u190	She's a magician's colleague. Spending has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Before I speak about what is referred to as item 2 of today's agenda, however, I would like to remind those who undermine the reputation of the institution of the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Judges are elected by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority in secret vote. Otherwise, when I hear a debate in the National Assembly on the subject of deleted persons, allow me to help myself with the case. It is as if before me there is a snowball, which according to the laws of gravity is rolling from the top of the hill to the bottom and picks up everything in the way of happiness. That's how it is with this debate. At the end of the day, the snowball picks up when it comes from the south. And another example, the onion comes to mind when we talk about the rights of the erased and the willingness of some to admit that they have been wronged, and the willingness to correct these injustices - is like peeling onions. With each leaf of the onion, there is less of these rights, and in the end there is nothing left but tears from the peeling of the onion. It is clear that I will support the request to assess the constitutionality of the referendum initiative. The question raised is probably not one of the longest and least understandable ones that the initiator for the referendum has decided to put to the test. However, there is certainly a record, in my opinion, of how many such requirements there are that do not tolerate the judgment of constitutionality. In doing so, I must say that, in fact, I am most disturbed by the seventh indent of this request, which requires that the law expressly defines any act of an administrative authority in the issue of decisions relating to the regulation of the back-up status. It is interesting to read this, given that we have been very clear twice, if not twice, that the administrative authority should start issuing decisions. I cannot shake off the supplementary decision, of course This might remind one of the discussers of Article 153 of the Constitution and of another, but it will probably be without effect, as so far as there is no effect. However, this is probably the only thing that can no longer be abused by infectious delays. The decision-making process has begun and cannot be stopped. Anything else, I see as an attempt at stalling, because I do not underestimate the opposition so much as to attribute to it the inability to see that all six indents are such that they can be challenged. It is just that we need to buy some time and that we can contribute a few more money to the family budgets of the members of the electoral commissions, because this referendum will certainly not be signed at the same time as we first adopted the decision to call for a referendum on technical law. Many things are written in such a way that one wonders how it can be forgotten that the principle of innocence is written in our constitution until the individual is proved guilty. To require, in fact, things related to the personal definition of individual historical events. And as it was said earlier that a position could be changed, I do not know why those who did not apply at the time could not change their position, either to obtain permanent residence or citizenship. I think that what is stated in the call for a referendum is unacceptable, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will also reject this initiative as an unconstitutional one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u192	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna try and cut my act a little bit myself. However, I would focus on the decision itself and the proposal for a decision. I will not support the proposal for a decision proposed by the Internal Policy Committee. At the same time, I will not object to the proposal for a decision because I respect the legitimate right of all three groups of Members to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u194	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u195	To ask the Constitutional Court whether the initiative is in accordance with the Constitution. However, those who have been sitting in this hall for a long time have political experience. You know well what moves are made and what moves will be made on this initiative. I personally believe that the Constitutional Court has only the option of rejecting this initiative only in the last indent, since the law expressly defines it as a worse crime and so on. Everything else is not in dispute! And that's also the question of if it's controversial. And we are again at that responsibility, whether we are able to find a two-thirds compromise in this Chamber, that this would not take place from month to month, or by initiative, with extraordinary meetings at an extraordinary meeting more forward. Whoever reads all these paragraphs well will know exactly how to analyse this proposal for a previous legislative referendum. And today there are a lot of you who have spoken in this hall all along about all other things than this point - both one and the other. I need to focus and replicate some of them. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, my colleague Auschwitz, when he spoke about criminal charges and why they are not individual prisoners. Some of the statements are not true, it should be pointed out that everyone who has lived in the Republic of Slovenia since 1991 had a permanent residence has his right - over 180,000 who have also accepted Slovenian citizenship - acquired their right. We talked a lot about why these 18,000 were on the list of deleted; there are such reasons or other reasons. There are some who could be said to have been wrongly erased, but there are some who have not been wrongly erased. Comrade Auschwitz, you're talking about criminal charges, I know quite a few criminal charges that have been filed for some former Yugoslav People's Army officers. Also my friend, who was doing his job - and if you step into the lobby of the Ministry of the Interior, is a memorial board and a board and there is also one name written down, a reserve officer - Mr. Hvalec of Maribor - someone ordered you to shoot him in the back while he was doing his job. He who ordered the shooting of a Slovenian policeman in the back, who defended the civilian population against an aggressor who did not show the activity of fighting, is still walking on Slovenian soil today and the criminal procedure is not finished. It's not finished. And today I could only ask here which criminal proceedings concerning economic crime, the biggest economic crime, were completed in the Slovenian space to obtain a judicial epilogue. That one of the principal directors who was criminally charged also earned and served his sentence? It's not that simple. It's not all about mixing. On the other hand - let no one blame me - there are some priority lists in the individual courts, where, for example, there is no problem that a fellow Member of Parliament, Hvalica, a fellow Member of Destrnik, Pukšič, is sentenced overnight. It's not going in order! Others wait for justice for five or ten years and some for the night. My uncle looked at someone a little more ugly, said two insulting words to him, and on account of it all, he's already been punished for 300,000. And I could have mentioned it, but it doesn't matter. It is important, however, that we have double criteria in this national assembly - we do not know the compromises. If I made some criticisms on Krivica's account earlier, I will give him something right: he publicly warned about the composition of the Constitutional Court - publicly, the President of the State. I'll give him that. And there were double criteria. I respect the Constitutional Court, it has been legitimately elected, and I hope, but I am not sure whether in their decisions individual judges decide politically or professionally - I hope, but I am not sure. And, dear colleagues, there have been cases where some of the types of fellow Members wanted to become constitutional judges, but they were not appropriate. And here the former president had double standards. Sorry, he had double standards. And what Rupar said at Mr Ribič's expense, with all due respect to him, to Mr Ribič, he holds. He was the president of the party, he was in Parliament, he was in the previous system -- what he was. However, the national assembly or the majority in the national assembly here takes into account the double criteria. This is bad for the country, bad for the legal system and bad for the future of the country. That's where the criticism has to be. For this story to continue, we have already rejected twice the proposal of Drnovska, the new president of the country. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u196	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u197	I think that if she was allowed to talk about things that do not relate to this story, to my colleague Rupar and also to some of the LDS, I can also say that. I'm gonna finish what I thought. Because it seems that Drnovsk's proposal for President of State for Mr Cwickl did not receive majority support in the National Assembly, again it shows that we have double criteria in this National Assembly and that only candidates who are ultra left-handed to receive such support are counted. And believe me, for an institution like the Court of Auditors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u198	Comrade Kangler!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u199	If that's how you're going to insist, you're doing bad things to the state and bad to the legal system. Once again, I think that this knot that we have in the National Assembly on deleted - no doubt the referendum will be, we have already accepted it at point 1. After the referendum, there are also many questions whether or not we can reach out to this matter through constitutional law. We are dealing with constitutional law in this matter, whether we will have double criteria for those who have already received constitutional provisions and for those who are to receive other decisions under constitutional law. And we are where we are: we are in a strange situation and each of us must take the blame for being in such a situation. This should be an assessment of how much someone has contributed to the fact that we are where we are. My opinion is as follows. I think that so many of the wisdom and political virtues of individual "leaders" already have in this mandate to find a compromise and solve this problem. However, once again, I would like to point out not to solve the problems in such a way that individual "leaders" or individuals meet both behind closed doors and in secret locations; I think that when there is a discussion about broader support for the solution of the problem, all parliamentary parties, but not just some, should be invited to talk. Once we have achieved that all parliamentary parties will be involved in the problem, I think the result can be different from what we currently have. In such a way that some of you are locked up or hiding from the Slovenian public and also from some members of the coalition or opposition, it is not good and there will be no solution. At least two-thirds majority in the National Assembly for any other intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u200	Reploco has a colleague, Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much. My colleague Kangler responded to a question that was not intended for him in the first place, and I don't think he took it properly or understood it. I asked myself, or I also asked the thesis that if, at the right time in 1992, 1991 by the Ministry of Defense or by the General Public Prosecutor's Office, both the charges and the indictments were filed, there would probably be no reason to delete them at all. Well, that was my foundation. And unfortunately, it's too late for that, because we know only war crimes get old. However, if at that time it was based on the fact that the charges could be filed on the basis that someone did not respond to the Presidency's call, on the basis that someone did not think well about Slovenia, based on the fact that someone had been in the hostile JLA for too long, then they should have done so. As far as I could tell and talked, there were lists for it. Why this has not come true, and everyone else who is somehow or otherwise guilty in this same basket would not have had problems today and would not have had such an ugly conversation about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u202	A replica that's not a controversy, but just explained the wrong performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. It'll explain, yes. Laughing isn't a sin, it's a human river. And I believe that there is some secret attraction between Mr Kangler and me, given how often he mentions me in his performances and the frequency of debate in the national assembly about the deleted has only led me so far as I have tried with two, indeed very real cases, to explain what we are discussing. And I don't think I broke the rules of procedure. But I would be glad if everyone would stick to the darkness as closely as I try to hold on to it. And Mr. Kangler, the Styrians are known to us for loving real cases. I hope you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u204	Good. Please proceed with the debate. My friend Kavtičnik has the floor. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u205	President! So this contribution from my colleague, Potate, was just kind of needed for today's debate, because this debate is going this way today, that people watching us in front of the TV and they want to get some explanation of what we want to say and of course what we would like to resolve with this problem deleted, and they're not getting an agreement. They get more and more confused because I'm sure we're confused here, and we don't know what we're going to do, but we want to do it by pointing to the other as often as possible. People who listen to these ugly words, but also sharp words, I'll tell you, but it hurts them. And if then there is an apology, for with words it is about as with a nail, when you kill it, and even if you pluck it out, the scar remains. We should be aware of that. Two days after the cultural lawyer, Cankar wrote something like this: "This nation, which has suffered and oppressed three times for 500 years, our nation, who fought with its blood and its tears, this nation, despite slavery and poverty, has created its culture despite hunger and thirst." Not only did he create his own culture, he created his own country because he wanted it! For centuries, Slovenians and Slovenes fought to create their country, to create their constitution, and to respect it. Of course, respect for the Constitution is a matter of culture. I think it will take us a few more years to learn what it is to respect human rights and that human rights cannot be bought and compromised. Human rights are above material rights, and we must be aware of that, and we must not talk about the fact that it is at the same time, when we give someone a right, behind what it costs. And if he were here with us today, he would probably say that if they were not swords, axes, and shovels, envy would complete their work. So, what did we do with our babbling? We had envy, and it happened that way in Prevalje and in Mizica - although I am Korošec and I know Korošci and I know that they are honest, that they are working and that they did not attack each other, it happened to them. It happened after a visit. That's what happened! And let me ask you a question, please, what do you sow when you walk among people?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u206	There's no fellow seal. Comrade Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u207	Yes, I, too, wonder what is really behind this effort, behind this commitment to salvation. Whether it is the extreme need for righteousness or not, it is calculus. As with these people we are dealing with, a certain degree of calculus, which is nothing wrong, has gone completely into some calculus that has unfortunately leaked in the wrong direction. Now you want to solve their miscalculations with your calculus. That's all, actually. Look, our country has offered citizenship to all these people to decide. Unfortunately, some have not made up their minds. That was their choice. If you are not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, you are unfortunately a foreigner, so you are not in violation of human rights, but you do not have access to social rights, because these persons will be able to exercise their social rights from pension or other insurance where they are citizens. Or some things purely contractual, according to payment to this system. But what's this all about? What the government said about pensions, of course, is not true. The consequences will also be based on permanent residence, this is a law on success. And that's the backdrop of that, that's the financial consequence. So, the state offered citizenship, offered foreign status and did not prosecute anyone from this country, and it would be good to tell those in the European institutions that the country did the right thing, but not to slander the state of Slovenia, how it treats citizens or people who live here. Some people just don't want to. Look, I think your efforts are going this way, as you've done in some laws. Officers who have not crossed into the Slovenian army have at least 40% better pensions than those who have crossed into the Slovenian army. Yeah, that's right. Go take a look at the data. Because you prefer those who jump on or jump on the Slovenian state. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, they definitely are, the data shows, the data's like that. [[...]] I don't know, go look at the institution for pension and disability insurance, compare the category of those who have crossed, and those who haven't. Now I don't know if there's any other distribution, that those who had bad salaries have crossed over into the Slovenian army, and those who had good wages haven't crossed over. But that's not it. Go take a look! This is in the statistical review, which you can also get at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. I don't believe this is just a case. This needs to be stressed. Look, another case happened in Mladika. At that time, in these fateful hours of self - conquest, some doctors, group 15, 18 decided not to go into the peripety that occurred at that time and to carry out their duties in accordance with their professional mission. They were put under pressure by those who were against Slovenia. That was a lot of pressure. And these people said, "We're not staying in this fascist land for 24 hours." Most of these came back. Some six months later, and they also claimed the right to buy the apartment and all that stuff. You can still figure that out. These are the records, these are the records. But some came a long time later and missed those opportunities. That is, of course, the facts. And colleague Maja Zupan mentioned several other categories of deleted. Why is there no such obsession with others who have the status of our citizen? Among those over 75 years of age, pensions under 45, or 50,000, and persons with disabilities, why are they not granted exemption from voluntary insurance contributions? However, the Minister of Health announces how he will provide certain benefits to these categories. Let him do the law! The act has not yet been adopted - but that law has been passed by the Demos government; for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What I want to stress with this is the same vats for each other. I do not wish to exclude, but first we, as a country of Slovenia, must take care of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for their social and economic rights. However, it is certainly true that we must not violate human rights, and these I do not think have been violated by the State. However, if there were any errors in the erasure of this permanent residence, we offered the opposition a legal basis to find out. I don't know how many of these cases are going to happen, either there's going to be 500, or there's going to be 15,000, I don't know. Because when we put this act down, it's hard to tell how much the real situation can be proved in this way. That's what people worry about, that's what citizens care about when we talk. And the consequences will be on pensions, not to talk about it, even late payments, but some knew well the consequences of all this. But they made a different choice. The Constitutional Court intervened in this matter, and it is not possible to get rid of the impression, however it took place, that it is in some political connection, absolutely. Of course, it has fatal consequences, if they talk about the fateful, I don't know, similarities to a fellow Member, I could talk about the fateful consequences. They have thus resorted to the basic postulates of independence of the Republic of Slovenia. And there's something else that needs to be highlighted. You may claim, you may not think it clear that the elements of statehood were after 1974 by the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - Slovenian. Some elements, some basics. You know why. It was also during the period when the Constitution, including the Yugoslav Constitution, allowed for some kind of sovereignty of individual republics as well as the possibility of self-resuscitation. This dimension, of course, must also be drawn in some sense in the context of permanent residence and citizenship. In such a way that the Constitutional Court assumed the role of an active legislator, it did not have to do so, it could have ordered the National Assembly to regulate this matter, since it had been found from individual cases that there had been errors. It would be a warning that the legislator should adequately resolve and, within his sovereignty, not by suspending the National Assembly. It's just done. The consequences have arisen. And the consequences of this, I say, a key act was there, the origin of this act is there, including all the complications. But of course also the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, which offered solutions such as these. These are the reasons for the complications. And the members of the opposition have proposed a constructive solution, and last but not least this referendum is an act of art.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much. My friend Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I will vote against the proposal for a decision on the requirement that the Constitutional Court decide whether the content of the request for a previous legislative referendum in a system law on the subject of so-called deleted is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I will oppose the proposal for such a decision because I am convinced that this is another act, another procedure in your uncompromising arrogant model of solving the problem of the so-called deleted. The Constitutional Court ruling of April last year, in which the Constitutional Court in some strange, incomprehensible way assumed the role of legislator, does not offer much compromise. You have also shown uncompromisingness and impossibility by rejecting our amendment to the technical law, and not least, after we tabled it, you yourself signed under the request for a subsequent legislative referendum for the technical law, when you immediately after submitting this request, knowing that the technical law would fall, you copied the essential contents of the technical law into the so-called substantive law. Well, in the meantime, when you found that a procedure for the implementation of the previous legislative referendum had started, without any legal basis, decisions had also been issued to the so-called deleted. All of this shows that you have decided in every way to resolve the problem of the so-called deleted as you have presented it, I am sure, or you have convinced me that you are doing so for the exercise of human rights in our country. This is an undeniable fact and the exercise of human rights under the cover of which you are pursuing the realization or resolution of the problem of so-called deleted, nor has it convinced the majority of the public, has not convinced our voters. I am sure that in the background of the so-called deleted many, many more; something we have already heard from the implementation of our party's president today, but everything else can only be imagined and thought. It's impossible to understand all the efforts and all the procedures you've forced. It is impossible to understand that the subject of so-called deleted persons can be discussed at the third extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, with many problems to be resolved in our country at extraordinary meetings. It's impossible to understand that there's no background. I'm only afraid of the moment, the day we find out what's behind it and the price we'll pay. Mr. Anderlich, I don't know the background, but I know the way you think. The fourth year is already running, which I am sitting in this House, and it is not logical for me to make as unreasonable a move without a reasonable cause as the irrational moves of the coalition seem to appear to LDS and the United List in solving the issue of the so-called deleted. This will soon come to light, and sooner or later you will have to explain. The arrogance and uncompromising implementation of your model of rescue of deleted persons goes so far as not to allow or allow voters to decide on the subject under any circumstances. Moreover, you make public on all the mouths that any decision on the technical law is irrelevant. I believe that it is still a matter of some sort and that the expected plebiscite decision against the technical law will put things in place. Now another thing that directly touches me as a signatory to the request for a subsequent legislative referendum. That is, I thought deeply about when I read a statement by a key man from Liberal Democracy, who was summarized in a 24-hour broadcast on POP TV, where it was literally said that "this story must be truly stopped, if not otherwise, by force, and so on, at all costs." I'd like to know what it means to "shall" or "at all costs." Look, in addition to stepping up to the Constitution when you didn't vote on the referendum, then there are these threats. I understand this as a direct threat to our signatories and also to all the public who do not think as you think the actors of this written-off story. And now I ask, given that no one has denied the threats made, how can I expect this force to manifest itself and what will be the cost of stopping this story. Will the cost of stopping this story be the political deletion of all the signatories, or will the cost of stopping this story be the political deletion of all those who represent a solution to the so-called deleted ones differently than you imagine in the United Nations Charter and Liberal Democracy? To me, quite frankly, it is a bit of a fear, because in this state, unfortunately, everything is possible, and I would like to ask again who I should be careful of. Is this any special police unit that controls Mr. Bohinc, who issues the decisions, or is it a unit of Owe, security intelligence, or who? The fact is, once again, I stress that the key person of the Liberal Democracy at the public press conference, at a public presentation of views on the subject, has threatened the implementation of force at all costs. Yeah, look, this is a document nobody denied. At least what would have happened if this gentleman had been convicted would have been expected and it would have been hygienic for someone in this group to deny these allegations. I am concerned, Mr Member, who said this, did not make a statement at the private press conference, but said this at the press conference of the parliamentary group. Dear President, don't make this an emergency call. However, I think that in such a statement you should also react and protect the security, integrity of the signatories to the referendum requirement. None of this happened. But my expectations are probably too wide for that, too, and I probably won't be able to see it. See, the background we don't know, the background, which is still very crucial and which will be the end when it comes out, also illustrates why you are conducting such positive discrimination when adopting legislation on the subject deleted. This positive discrimination is nicely said to be strange and how you will have to try to make this positive discrimination clear before the law to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u210	My colleague Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If this call were to be made by my colleague, I would probably be adjourned in two hours today if, of course, the president of anyone who has strayed from the darkness had warned of this and perhaps even taken his word. Today, in this debate, and even in the past, we have heard many debates that somehow have an unwitting effect on us that we have not even read this law. We repeatedly repeat "nationality" and probably intentionally instead of talking about permanent residence. In addition, we are talking about non-selectivity, despite the fact that we have taken a selective approach to the law, and we are talking about military persons, on the other hand, at the time of independence, despite the fact that it is stated in the law that these rights do not lie with those military and civilian persons who have not responded to the call of the then Presidency to cross over to our side. So far, all the solutions outlined and possible have proved insurmountable in order to reach an agreement in this Chamber supported by a large majority of Members and Members. I didn't expect the truth to happen. It's no different this time. Regrettably, political parties whose first result is electoral success are too much in the game to stop making electoral moves; but that is only on short lines. An already vague view of the text of these referendum questions, their explanation of course says that the signatories want to preserve the existing situation and, if possible, they would also legalise it.The easiest thing to do would, of course, be by constitutional law, in which they would record that the injustices did not occur at that time. To request someone who has been found by the Constitutional Court to have been violated by his right to re-examine his role as independent of him is, of course, to require these people without status to acknowledge that they are themselves guilty of the situation in which they are. No exceptions. At the same time, the same text states that only persons who have tried to regulate this status have the right to recognise their status back. If nothing else, the first and third indents shall be excluded. In our discussions so far, we have heard that opponents of the application of the Constitutional Court decision also acknowledge that, according to their estimates, there have been individual injustices that need to be rectified and, at the same time, in the sixth indent, record that any possibility of asserting rights relating to the status of permanent residence is excluded - understand who is more. In their work, however, they achieve more when they demand that the law explicitly defines any act of an administrative authority which, if I shorten, respects and directly implements the Constitutional Court’s decision in practice. Also, the findings of the law that was dealt with in the second reading last week, which made it necessary to collect signatures for the previous referendum, and this obvious lack of selectivity, are mildly inaccurate. The law contains restrictions, perhaps even unconstitutional ones, but they are written down. This is also why I am once again in the dilemma of how to decide. The law that is passed is thought to be constitutionally controversial. The initiative to electives and voters to collect signatures, whose final outcome is to be a referendum, would have previously passed a potentially constitutionally contentious law with some constitutionally more controversial decisions. Perhaps even the best thing to do is to adopt a law, leave constitutional judgment, and so on and so forth. Mindful of my responsibilities, I will support the Constitutional Review initiative, even though I know that there will be at least another round in this case. And when we heard a lot of comments today about the former system, about the communists sitting on this side of Parliament, even if they were exes, let me say my modest assessment. If all the former Communists in this room were to sit on this side, it would be the strongest parliamentary group. And perhaps, I am almost sure, I can also say that the Slovenian Democrats would also contribute to their members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u212	My friend Brenčič is not in the hall. Please, this is not the subject of this conversation. Peace in the hall. We continue the debate. Comrade Gračner, would you like a word? They have one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. So, we have already voted today that there will be an ex-post legislative referendum on the technical law on 4 April. So, this is the referendum that you've requested from 30 signatories and that will be because no one has withdrawn this request, including the one made, we can't really change anything. Now, in item 2 of the agenda, we are essentially deciding on a second referendum, a so-called system law, a law in which, together with the amendments, the opposition's comments on how the issue of compensation, subsequent or back-up status checks and so on has been resolved. But what surprises me is why the same 30 signatories did not sign the request for a referendum on the system law, because it would be so much faster together. Of course, the reason lies in prolonging this debate as much as possible, so that we can speak as much as possible to cover up the problems that are true in the country. Here's a question I've been reading myself for about three minutes. So, a very complicated, long question to decide at this referendum. Again! See, point 7 is explicit and, in my opinion, unconstitutional content, because it goes against what the Constitutional Court ruling says. Once again, the decision of the Constitutional Court in our legal system - unfortunately, only the Constitutional Court has such status that there is no appeal against its decision. We didn't make up those deleted problems. The Constitutional Court simply ruled that in 1992 there was an injustice, that a certain number of people without the basis of law had been deleted from the Register of Permanent residence. And in the year we enter the European Union, we should go to this Union without the burden of the past, not that we are now going to engage in integration into the European Union by solving the 1992 problem. Instead of solving this problem, on the other hand, we are calling for referendums, and we are supposed to collect as many as 45,000 signatures, only to extend the problem as far as possible, so as to sow as much intolerance among people as possible, because in this House, which is more than obvious, we are sitting on two shores and we cannot possibly come together. This has proved to be in all these hours of debate that we have here. So, I don't know, I'm sure that's an unconstitutional question. However, I am also convinced that it is perfectly unconstitutional, because this procedure would take longer, perhaps even to come to two referendums. We will spend 1.2 billion for two referendums, but we will decide nothing, because no referendum can change the Constitutional Court's decision. And it's like there's some kind of blind battle between Parliament and the Constitutional Court. Now it's even obvious that the Constitutional Judges are politically colored and I don't know what else. The fact is just the way it is, and in the coalition we are probably more responsible than in the opposition - to resolve this issue and to enter the European Community, which is supposed to focus on respect for human rights and freedoms, without burden. That's why, once again, I'm going to support this constitutional judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u214	My colleague Lavrich is not here. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Well, everything shows that the debate is getting a little more calm, which I like very much; in such an atmosphere it is possible to discuss more objectively. Probably, though, the fact that we are already a little tired of all this is encouraging. Well, first of all, I would like to mention the option that is still being offered that both referendums would be on the same day. Gentlemen, you have already been told to summarize the text, file it as a request from 30 Members and the matter will be resolved. And we can schedule an additional referendum tomorrow on the same day. I think if it was a sincere wish, we would. You say there are so many unconstitutional views in the text that it is impossible to do so. I don't think so. The first, third, fifth, sixth and seventh indents are cited as the most controversial. See, in the first indent - the referendum issue to be decided by the electorate states that those who have suffered any harm, injustice, should submit an appropriate role to remedy this injustice, a role in which they should state the circumstances in which they were unable to settle their status in a timely manner. I think that's a perfectly normal request. Nothing unconstitutional at all. If a Slovenian citizen is faced with a state, state administration or any injustice, he reads the possibility of a complaint and has to file an application to remedy the injustice, he proves that he is justified, and all the burden of proof is on his shoulders. And if Slovenian citizens are subject to this procedure and this burden, why not be foreigners? I think it's clear, and any normal person will say who has suffered the injustice, put in a role, and prove that it has happened to him. It's not hard to prove it in all these cases. Certainly, though, it is not according to the Constitution, which also speaks of righteousness before the law, of righteousness, which applies to all the inhabitants of this land. Also for Slovenian citizens and foreigners. The third indent, which you say is very unconstitutional, says that only persons who are found to have tried to settle their status at the time should be recognised for their objective circumstances and thus given it. Again, this urgent selectivity, which stems from righteousness, is the foundation of our constitution. So, only those who at the time could not settle their status because of objective circumstances or because of the wrong attitude of the administrative authorities towards all of this, surely only those. Again, not at all, as has now been the case with these flat-rate decisions being made without an application, without proof of justification and so on. And then the fifth indent, which you also say is unconstitutional. In the fifth indent, the constitutional or referendum question is that the excusers under this law are not persons who have not responded to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to cross from the JLA and so on. You know, if it has already been said that you have accepted this request, but you have accepted it by pardoning or not being entitled to resolve this issue, to remedy the injustices only those who have not responded to the demands of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia have remained in JLA and have participated in active fighting, in active hostile activities against Slovenia. And it was said that it was not those soldiers who were sent so much to the front, but all those who did not actively cooperate in a political way, with an order and so forth - it was for those! And for all those who were actually behind this rude act against Slovenia. This is certainly the correct question, and if that dictatorship of yours has held up or you think it will hold up the constitutional judgement, then it will also hold. I'm sure it'll hold. And then the 6th point, which you also reject as unconstitutional, says that retroactively it is only possible to pay compensation on the basis of the law which provides for it. This is, of course, in accordance with the Constitution, there is no retroactivity in itself - just on the basis of the law. And at the 7th point, where some of you even say that it's so very unconstitutional that you can see from the plane, you might see anything from the falcon that flies high above the clouds, but you can see from the pillatus that it's not unconstitutional. Thus, the seventh indent states that the law expressly defines as a worse offence any act of an administrative authority which issues these decisions without the explicit basis of the law or the law. I don't know what would be so unconstitutional. The Constitution clearly states in Article 153: "The individual acts and actions of the public authorities must be based on the law." It says in the constitution, I don't know why such a provision would be unconstitutional. I don't know why! You, of course, base this on the fact that this is against the decision of the Constitutional Court. Let's leave it at that. Let's ask ourselves first if it's against the constitution. No, it's not. It's not. This requirement of ours is entirely in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution, which literally quotes it. Then we are here to ask whether the Constitutional Court can demand something unconstitutional. If this Constitutional Court were correct, it would say or verify the current state of decision-making and conclude that the current issue of decisions, which began without a legal basis, is unconstitutional. That is how the Constitutional Court should decide if it follows a stop. And we think that we should follow the constitution, because the constitutional court is not the founder, it is not. The Constitutional Court has to follow the Constitution, and it has to bow to it, since the Constitutional Court actually assesses everything else on the basis of a comparison with the Constitution. If the Constitution for the Constitutional Court is not a sacred matter, then we no longer need a constitutional court, then the Constitutional Court no longer has an argument with which the legislative branches of power could, to us, smoldering a constitutional court, if you have done something unconstitutional. For a constitutional court, there must be a sacred constitution. And, right here is this conflict, and right here is what some say is losing the credibility of the constitutional court. But let's leave it, let's leave it! All we are saying now is whether these demands are unconstitutional or not. We don't think so. And of course, that's why we don't support this requirement, because we don't think it makes sense. Of course, you, like any referendum initiative, will send three times to the Constitutional Court and literally blackmail a certain position or a certain negative position of the Constitutional Court. Look! The thing is, it's in the background, but it's the fact that these people have really been wronged, right now, to everyone. I believe that this has already been said, but it has not been said that, in fact, a really new country was created here, that these people no longer had a permanent residence here, because at the time it was a permanent residence in the SFRJ, and that when they became foreigners - foreigners became the moment when they did not want to accept Slovenian citizenship, they also had a period of time to reflect for months and months, but if they did not accept citizenship they became foreigners, certainly there is no place for them. There's no local status! And as any foreigner must respect the legal order of the country in which he is a guest, these foreigners also had to respect this legal order and then the law on foreigners, the lady adopted in June 1991, was in force. This law states in Article 1: "During residence or detention in the Republic of Slovenia, foreigners must comply with the provisions of this law and with the regulations and decisions of the state authorities." And of course, in Article 57, the same law states: "A foreigner must report his permanent or temporary residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to the competent authority." Here we are! They were invited, only in Ljubljana, out of 7,000 calls sent to these foreigners, 5,000 did not come back, others were invited, it was in the media, and if they did not arrange it, something happened; but not by the fault of this country, but not by the fault of this country! For this reason, we believe that, of course, the excuse that these referendum issues are unconstitutional is again your excuse and I would ask only this: of course you have the right to vote this and send it to the Constitutional Court, this is your legitimate right, just not to say how much you wanted this story to conclude that you would have both referenda on one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u216	My friend Run. There's no controversy in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u217	Thank you very much. It's very embarrassing that I don't know how many times, but many times, you keep talking about the same questions over and over again that you don't have any imagination, gentlemen, but really no imagination. You repeat the things you said three times, five times on the same subject. Look, you're still talking about the problem of dealing with issues of citizenship. You say we gave citizenship to everyone who wanted it, and then you tell them, but we couldn't guarantee rights to those who didn't want it. Shut up and lie that the rights have been revoked: the status of permanent residence has been revoked without a decision, without any personal notice and without public notice. I believe that this will slowly take place, only that you do not find it uncomfortable to repeat this lie from the session to the session when you know each time that they are not real. That's not true, it found a constitutional court, not the one with Dr. Cyril Ribičič, but the one where Dr. Cyril Ribičič was not. The Constitutional Court of 4 February 1999, signed as President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Franc Testen. At that time, it was found to be illegal and unconstitutional. Well, I'm not saying anything will help, but I think it's time to say again that you're telling the purely untruth at this point. You're telling us why we didn't collect 30 Members' signatures to prevent them from collecting signatures. Yeah, isn't this the wrong world? Why didn't you pick them up, gentlemen? You have gone to collect signatures of citizens and citizens, as you may go, just not to tell us that you could provide me with an immediate invitation to a referendum and a simultaneous referendum on the same day if you have not deliberately done so, and tell us that you will re-apply with methods that will ensure that the referendum will be held as soon as possible and that these things will continue indefinitely. Isn't that at least, I'd say, incorrect, but just a little too much? You say the coalition was not prepared to accept any serious proposals. There are even hundreds of proposals that have not been adopted, and similarly what we all know is not true, and I would not repeat what has been substantively accepted because I said so in the introductory statement. You're just still saying: we're in favour of compromise. I'd like you to let me know what kind of compromise you're for. Each of you is saying something different. One says that you are prepared to respect the Constitutional Court's decision; the other says that you can't do anything because people didn't want to have the rights you wanted to give them; the third says that you would have arranged everything, but only on condition that the administrative authorities treated it illegally; a quarter of the 15th explanation. Tell me where your compromise is! Tell me! I would really like to hear that you can talk about this compromise because you have not told it so far. If you go into a compromise that will allow people, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, to be granted the right to permanent residence, which has been unlawfully taken away from them, it adds with an individual decision, by determining whether they have actually lived here or not, taking into account many criteria that speculators - as you say - should come. We accept all of this. Just tell me where the compromise is. Your starting point, however, is that no one who has exercised these rights before 25 February can obtain these rights unless they are willing to prove that someone has acted unlawfully to him. Of course he acted unlawfully" By deleting him from the permanent residence records without informing him! When he arrived six months later, or a year later, to restore the document to the state authority, his document was destroyed. [[or identity card or passport or driving licence]] . You know all this, but you just move around and say: we're for compromise. Really, I'm asking you nicely, if you're willing to compromise, come on, tell me where, on what grounds, we can sit together and talk about it, otherwise it's really pure demagogy. We are discussing the different application of constitutionality and legality. I will try to tell you on a few things with my modest knowledge of the Constitution, even though I was a member of the Constitutional Commission when we adopted it, how it is read in this National Assembly of the Constitution. She was read today, and on purpose, I'm not going to quote anyone who spoke like that, because then there's going to be a replica. It was read: "In Slovenia there is power of the people." The same paragraph goes on to say, however, it has not been read: "Citizens and citizens exercise it directly and through elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial authority." This means that power has a people, but it is exercised through a system of dividing the power of the three branches, which is independent of each other, which is supervised by each other, and you cannot decide on the decisions of the judicial branch of power at the referendum. You can't! And it was said, "Well, we can decide on the decisions of the Constitutional Court at the referendum." That's, I'd say, a willful explanation of the constitution. Sorry, that's not how it works! It was said, "It is not possible to enforce a decision, it is not possible to exercise human rights without direct law." Article 15 states: "Human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution." It is too long a article to read it further, but I say so; of course, also on the basis of the law, when it is necessary to ensure that these rights are realized. If there is no law, no one can say until there is law, we will not exercise human rights. No, on the contrary, these rights must be exercised. You referred to the 90th articles in connection with the referendum. Yes, it is, but this 90th article may be in conflict with the exercise of human rights. It may also conflict with Article 14 that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights, but it says, no matter what conditions all. It may also be contrary to Article 82, which states that Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions. Moreover, by not being criminally responsible for the opinion or vote expressed by the Member of the National Assembly or its working bodies. It can be decided by its political responsibility. And when it comes to conflicts of various interests, it can be decided by its conscience, with full responsibility, but not criminally and not in such a way that we can show each other how we decide. I don't read anyone's actions against the constitution. But I tell him when he gets fat. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what you do. Once again, please tell us what you are willing to compromise on. This is also true, gentlemen, for you from the People's Party, who, after we expected that one evening we had already agreed that, for all of us, a prepared proposal from the State Council could be prepared, the next day you came and said, forget, we demand that no one be given the right, unless that is specifically required and provided that immediately after 25th or before that, namely February 1992, he began to exercise his rights. Tell me where and where you're ready to make a deal so we can talk about it. Otherwise, it was all just an attempt to keep things going and to blame the coalition that wanted things to be realized in accordance with constitutional decisions, but I admit, it was naive to be able to get the mood in this national assembly and the public so far as to make the exercise of rights difficult or impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u218	Comrade Barovich, did you want procedural? [[Back-up advertising.]] It's your turn. I give my word to my colleague Jashi the Evil One. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no. Yasha Zląbet has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u219	Thank you very much. A few weeks ago, Janez Janša in Magu had an interview in which he said very loudly and unequivocally that when he won the elections, he would sweep away all government officials from the office if they served the decisions to the deleted. A few seconds later, for no reason at all, he bent that liberal Democrats were genocide to the Slovenians. These are, of course, so thick that it doesn't even make sense to discuss them. And that's not even a lie anymore. These are fat fictions. For a while, however, I myself would focus on the referendum issue, which could be even fatter than it was Janševa's. In fact, if we look at him. It is recognized the status, this concern that a poor man would not be tricked into a Slovenian state through a hole. In order to recognise the status back only to persons who are found to have attempted to regulate their status throughout the period from 25.2.1992 to more than 12 years. And if these people in their 12 years were unable to settle for objective circumstances or other things, it is in fact impossible to understand that these people who are in the lower order could be material in order to continue searching after 12 years because they have apparently always faced the wall. And even if they wanted to solve the problem, they probably couldn't solve it. But the worst thing is that the law that the right hand wants to bring through is that the war veterans' union for Slovenia is also an article in how to get rid of foreigners, or whatever, or even more so. The most obese of all, however, is that the law expressly defines any act of an administrative authority in the issue of decisions relating to the provision of retroactive status, which is manifestly contrary to the Constitution, including the possibility of issuing decisions on the recognition of the status of permanent residence back, without express grounds or legal provision, as provided for in Article 153(3). Worse crime - how many years in prison. How many years will the prison be given an administrative authority that won't do that? Will the administrative authority go to jail or will the administrative authority be expelled from the country? In short, here we see one fear of fellow citizens, the fear of people who have not, the vast majority of them have done nothing wrong to anyone, only that they are in such bad skin that everyone can come to terms with him and his complexes and minor problems. That's what this law of yours is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u220	Comrade Janez Janša's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u221	So, what Comrade Zląbec used to say, he made it up, he made it up. I never mentioned in Mago that we would throw anyone out of work, nor did I say anywhere that the LDS was genocide. That's what my buddy Zląbec made up, and he was lying to himself. I didn't say! In addition, I propose to my colleague the Evil One that, in addition to advocating for the human rights of so-called deleted persons, he also advocates the human rights of his gardener, who was harassed by him when he was an ambassador to Brussels, and what we read in Slovenian newspapers for weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u222	We're moving on. Dr. Bernick's friend isn't in the hall. Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Shortly after Monday, a full-day meeting of the National Assembly, I spoke to the distinguished lady of the Slovenian family, an emigrant who soon moved to North America after World War II. He has been on vacation in Slovenia for some time, so we got involved in an interesting and informative conversation. Of course, the word also referred to the problem of deleted persons, and the lady strongly protested how it was possible for the Republic of Slovenia to now grant Slovenian citizenship to thousands of foreigners on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and the laws to be adopted in the National Assembly. Of course, it was obvious that it confused the facts and when I presented it to her that we would not grant any citizenship and that it was a matter of regulating or granting permanent residence status. This is an essential difference, the lady has found, and has explicitly said that the injustices committed must be corrected. Of course, from the experience of many of our other people around the world who have ever been in very similar circumstances to be without rights and permission to reside abroad, she immediately understood what it meant and what happened at that time. In fact, it is a group of people of Slovenia who were registered as citizens of other former republics in the mother books of the former SFRJ and who, after the independence of Slovenia, did not take over Slovenian citizenship within the time limit set by the Republic of Slovenia, but decided to remain in Slovenia. Thus, these people were transferred from the register of permanent residents of the Republic of Slovenia to the records of foreigners without the necessary administrative procedure and informed that they had been deleted. However, this lady is not the only one who did not know and knows the problem. I repeat that this is not about the granting of Slovenian citizenship, but about the regulation of the illegal removal from the register of permanent residence. It is exclusively a recognition of permanent residence. I understand her as an evict, of course, but it is sad that many of our people at home in Slovenia are also misled, so that we will always grant citizenship to thousands of people so that we can grant citizenship and all possible and impossible benefits. Where did that misinformation come from, I wondered. If you keep repeating and repeating a fact, even if it is false, what can soon become the truth. I looked at the transcripts of the meetings of the National Assembly and found that the granting of citizenship to deleted persons was mainly talked about by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party. Allow me a few quotes. Colleague Ivan Mamić from New Slovenia [[.... ……]] : "It is said that somewhere it was his duty to find out what right he has, how that right is obtained, or in this sense citizenship." Or a colleague of Franz Pukšič [[.... ……]] : "And there is no reason for the Republic of Slovenia to give them decisions on Slovenian citizenship." But a colleague of Sasha's. [[.... ……]] : "It must be further stressed that the Citizenship Act of that period stipulated that Slovenian citizenship could be obtained by anyone, only to be applied for." Or a colleague of Cuckoo. [[.... ……]] "But it bothers me if this country gives all things back without question the status that is precious, which is the basis for citizenship." And so on and so forth. Or, for example, a colleague of Dr. Brace's. [[.... ……]] "Talk about human rights. Show me in today's constitution what human rights you have in mind which human rights are involved. Is the right to citizenship a human right? Please, of course not! The State gives nationality or does not give it, and the State does not need to explain why. It's the same with permanent residence." [[End of quote.]] With these questions, you want to make an impression or reluctantly make an impression as if it were deleted as a matter of granting citizenship. Why stress it like it's about giving up citizenship, but if we all know it's not about that? I could discuss the facts and half-truths in this assembly for a long time, but I will not. You have created confusion and manipulated public opinion by such deception, with respect for the right hand side of the Slovenian political stage, and you are also doing this persistently today, and you will obviously continue this during the pre-referendum and pre-election period and campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u224	Comrade Kramberger - cancels the debate. Comrade Sok, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. Throughout this debate, members of the opposition can listen to these endless accusations, predicting what else we will do, calling or predicting that this meeting could end today in two hours - so I understand the fellow Member Kontić - but unfortunately I must find out that it is his fellow Member Potrce who has initially started with a series of charges at the expense of the opposition. So he started this debate and then followed all this debate, that all of his fabricated accusations would in some way be refused to tell the Slovenian public that they were not so. And when this debate has been going on for a few hours, then Comrade Potrce will re-apply to the word and the opposition will ask what we are proposing and what our proposals are. Dear colleagues, we've written all this! There's nothing new to add to this. This has been debated all the time, and these are our proposals, which you do not want to accept. You have passed a technical law, despite the fact that the Council of State has warned you with a veto that this solution is not good, then it has always been said that technical law is needed, today or after some time you have turned this board and say that it can only be issued on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Back then, we talked about arranging this matter in one marriage, and because there was no listening in that direction, the situation had come so far. And there is no excuse for what some of our colleagues say. For example, colleague Kacin said last time, "I didn't say anything 'kiksal'," I didn't do anything, so she suggested the profession, and I'm just listening to what the experts say." This was said today by fellow Member Kebric. No, we're responsible! We have been elected citizens and citizens, and we are also paid to make these decisions. And we can't make excuses in this matter and bear our responsibility to someone else. However, I agree with you, colleague Potrč, that the Slovenian state is not only about what you would like to settle with regard to the deleted, but also in many other matters it is not the rule of law that many Slovenians and Slovenes feel this legal deficit. Just one thing, if I remember you. More than one year ago, citizens and citizens at the referendum - and this is very important for our rural area - decided to return to the investments they once invested in the development of telephony. To this day, the ruling coalition has done nothing in this area. Now, as the elections are approaching, of course, an invitation has been made to investors to submit their applications and to report their contributions, even though there are all official records and those responsible could obtain them under official responsibility. As far as human rights are concerned - I agree with all that human rights are a fundamental value and must be respected. However, respectable colleagues, we must then do the same in many areas, not only do we speak when it is 'fit', but we do not remember these values of human rights, of course, when it is not 'fit' for us. Personally, I would like to see this dilemma brought to an end by this debate in order to settle matters as they are right, but in the fact that you do not want to hear the opposition's proposals that you do not want to do things in such a way that it would be good for this country, of course we have no choice but to insist that people decide. And if they are also going to be about this referendum, about these seven issues that you say are complicated and that people will not understand them - but I think they will understand them, and they will understand them well; if they decide that this is part of the law, then you will have to adopt the system law as well as the will of the people at the referendum. Of course, the fact is, and that's definitely the case, you're just leaning on a constitutional court. The Constitutional Court is drawn up as it is, the decisions of the Constitutional Court - we all repeat that respect must be respected. In fact, this Constitutional Court, I do not know if it is because of its unbalanced composition that it decides as it would be appropriate for a democratic society. Personally, with my decisions, I must say they haven't convinced me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u227	Thank you very much. To ask people at the referendum is in other countries, here I have already mentioned the case of Switzerland, something most normal. And what the people decide is the final law. According to the LDS, the United List and DeSUS, this is different. Practically, what is proposed to people in referendum decision-making is unconstitutional - in their view. It's practically everything. And why is that? Why are they so determined, arrogant, ignorant of everyone else, to people, he made clear his colleague Potrč when he said in his debate that "it is important to point out that on the side of LDS, the United List and DeSUS not only a constitutional court, but most commentators from the media of public information." Think how transparent, how clearly he said it! Everything is in the hands of the Constitutional Court, which has been so carefully staffed and has been pushed under Mr Ribičič's tactics, and, of course, must provide services now, is subject to political pressure. And most commentators. This is achieved through pressure, through capital owners and, of course, through Mr Kocjančič on RTV. And in such a way, of course, you can want and enjoy a lot. In this country, it is unconstitutional to be one of the 200,000 who have been granted citizenship and asked for citizenship. This, in your opinion, is certainly unconstitutional. Being a Slovenian is probably unconstitutional in this country in your opinion. Because everything here is unconstitutional. At the same time, Mr Potrč says that SDS and New Slovenia and other opposition parties do not have serious advocates of their positions. Look, you point out that you have all the commentators in your hands. What is the picture of these media in this country? 90% of people don't have any commentators. That's true. That's what you've accomplished. And you're also saying that we don't have serious advocates of our own, but in all the polls, 90% of the people choose for our benefit. And that's what you're so afraid of. Here you are convinced that there are no serious advocates of these views.The last time the President of the National Assembly was a little more honest, and in a fair relationship to the Constitution, he was liquidated. You practically killed him. Listen, this request for a referendum is a smoke screen for which you will hide many lumparia in this country. And this is your game, always the same. I would ask you to trust the people in this country for once. Do not say that there are no serious advocates among the people, and that the people know nothing about anything, that it is foolish, foolish, and insulting people. Don't do this! People will make the right decision, and why wouldn't it be like in Switzerland when I quote here that what people decide is the highest law in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u228	Thank you. There's no buddy Trofenic. My friend Cremary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u229	Thank you very much, President. And yet we are born under a happy star today. And there are two stars: one is that one is running out of time, and the other is what a colleague Tsukati has found and I deeply agree with him that we are a little tired, so we are getting a little more patient and realistic. However, we have been discussing everything for a few hours, except what we should be discussing. Again with point one, nothing new, nothing different. We have a very simple proposal for a decision on the requirement that the Constitutional Court decide whether these issues are constitutionally disputed or not is very simple. And it is very legitimate that those who think so have written these questions and that they want people to answer them with their vote "yes" or "against". And it's very legitimate -- let's say, I think some of these issues need a constitutional court's judgement. It's both legitimate. And in 10 minutes, if we wanted to, we could also agree on a constitutional court ruling on that and say what the constitutional court thinks about that. And that's the meaning of the democratic system, and some of you will unfortunately have to go back to a small school of democracy. It could be a very small school of democracy. In a little school-democracy or at least [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll wait, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u230	Peace. Only a fellow Kremjar has a word. Peace. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u231	We have plenty of time, so I can wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u232	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u233	either in a small school of democracy or in one quick reading of the constitution. [[...]] He had previously read Potrz’s colleague, and the articles should be read in full, and of course some would never be shaped because they were not given, obviously. And apparently, one of them will never read. I would recommend that one or the other be done. Why am I talking about a small school of democracy? For a simple reason, because this country is based on patterns of democratic countries where the division of power is clear. Whether we are satisfied with the Constitutional Court, my personal problem and my problem as a Member is when I vote on these members of the Constitutional Court or constitutional judges. Whether we are satisfied with the President of the country proposing to the Constitutional Judges is again ours, and the personal problem and problem of a Member who can or cannot be satisfied with this. But this is an institution that we must respect in this society, which must do its work in the way Parliament must do, and which, of course, knows what it is doing and what it must do. And I'm only talking about this for one reason, because everything that's written here, and even more so, what's present in the debates all this time about the deleted, in my judgment, has one other wish. And that desire is, what if we have a constitutional court, but we're not satisfied with it, but we're going to the referendum and people are going to say what they think. That's not the point of democracy on this one case alone. It's not the point of democracy, but it's the sense of democracy that everyone does their own thing in elections, that people choose what they think is right to choose, that institutions work; that the police act as police, not me as police; that the courts act as courts and not me as a court and that the constitutional court acts as a constitutional court and not me as a constitutional court. The National Assembly to act as a National Assembly [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - So, I'm very grateful, Comrade Bayuk, for this sublime question, because I might be missing it. Make it work and it's right, I don't think in many cases it works like this. I am also a little sad when we take every opportunity, even now, to item 2 of the agenda, to list all possible concerns that we have legitimately and legitimately to the government, to Parliament, to LDS, to whom I do not know, but that is not it, it does not belong here. This is part of another debate, once when we talk about other things, and this is what, ladies and gentlemen, is meant to be a pre-election campaign, where we will talk through each other; I hope that it is better than now that a fellow who is just adverting. This is part of a pre-election campaign, so it also belongs to a pre-election campaign. I'll try to shorten it. I would not like to repeat this, but the questions I hope the Constitutional Court will find that they are not on trial in the referendum are written against the end of these questions in my judgment. And I hope, of course, that the Constitutional Court will say that this is not the case, because there are a lot of things that are hidden here: from lustrations to the fact that this State Assembly is already to determine in essence, people should determine what is the worst crime and so on. Let's think a little bit about the meaning of democracy, let's think a little bit about who's doing what. Is the referendum going to make laws or are there going to be people at the rallies? Is that what we want at the rally to determine who's to blame? Are we going to lead this to the lynch? These are rhetorical questions, of course. So my wish is simply to define ourselves - and I will be very simple and very easy to define myself - so that these issues are referred to the Constitutional Court and, as the Constitutional Court will decide, I think it is right to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u234	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we're done with point one, I've got four seconds left, and I'm going to use it in part now. Otherwise, I will return a little, and I am grateful that Mr. Minister has returned to this hall. He explained to us how certain experts in the field of constitutional law have changed their views or that they have different views. Of course, the question arises in itself, how many views does Mr Minister have on this same issue? With regard to the need for a basis in the law on the issue of decisions, the Minister in this Chamber assured this State Assembly and the Slovenian public that he could not do otherwise than on the basis of law, but with the same conviction and professional approach he is doing the opposite today. So that's also an interesting conversion. However, this is essentially your problem as to how you will explain this: to yourself, to this national assembly and also to the Slovenian public. Of course, the question is still well founded because it is finally linked to the core of all that we are dealing with today. We have proposed and co-signed this proposal for a referendum because we are convinced that this law, as it is, is not the right solution, and that there is no other solution than that there will be a long way to go - otherwise it is impossible in a democratic way without the lynchings' rallies, as my colleague Kremjar fears, that there will be a constitutional law because there will be no other solution than in this area. Why? It's a very complicated matter. I am not a lawyer myself, but you know very well that it is not enough just to talk about - the corner was warned by Mr Potsch that we must read in full Article 3. Of course, we must read it, but we must also understand that in our country it is the constitutional principle of the division of power and that the most delicate question is how this intertwines and when the judiciary can actually take over the role of the legislator. This is a professional question and it is a very serious question. And that's exactly why we have so many different opinions. However, in addition to all opinions, we have one duty in this National Assembly as elected Members. We have a legislator's duty. And respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court does not in any way require or presupposes that I must respect exactly the part where the Constitutional Court exceeds the limits of its powers and steps towards an area that is only from the legislator. The constitutional assessment provided for in our Constitution in Article 176 does not give the Constitutional Court the right to tell the executive or the legislator how a matter must be resolved. This is always our responsibility, it will remain our responsibility, the responsibility of this national assembly. There will be no other solution than to finally come to a decision at the referendum. And that such a law, as is now proposed, will in fact be stopped from creating the possibility of constitutional law, to some clever solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u236	Thank you. The minister wanted to replicate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u237	If you'll excuse me, because Mr. Bajuk has asked me to explain what this stunt is about and why it came to this. It's very simple. In its December decision, the Constitutional Court expressly stated that even if the law we proposed so-called technical law was not enforced and the Ministry of the Interior was not obliged to issue decisions directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. I have said this many times in this Chamber, but since they do not stop the question in this regard, I think I should say it again. The Constitutional Court is one whose position the Minister must respect and I respect and respect. In doing so, it is of the least importance what my personal legal position is on this issue. Nor was it significantly less important what was the position of the Group of Legal Experts, which was not adopted by the Constitutional Court after explaining the December decision of the Constitutional Court, in which it expressly ordered the issue of decisions. This is a legal situation which is easy to explain in public and anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u238	We're moving on. Comrade Evil has a word if he wants to. My friend Mamić, isn't it? No, no. My colleague quit, too, didn't she? Comrade Tisovic, have you given up? He's not a friend of Lavrinc's. Comrade Petan, no. No, it's crossed. Okay. Then my friend Mamić. You're giving up? Then, comrade Marshich, he's gone. My friend Janš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u239	I was very happy after Mr Kremjar's first performance when he said he regretted the act last Monday. Unfortunately, after this second performance, when he mixed up the rally and the referendum, my joy is less. I would like to answer the question raised earlier by Mr Potrč, what the opposition is offering as a compromise. We have made a compromise in the form of a constitutional law. These compromises became irrelevant when you began to issue decisions. Now we expect you to take some step that will bring things back from a dead end. Of course, unlike what you did last Monday and what you are doing today, we do not see any contradiction or illegality. You have the right under the law to demand constitutional review, you can undisputedly vote it, we have different views. You have multiple votes, and you'll probably vote for it. Just don't say we didn't stop the referendum on the same day. If you want the referendum to be on the same day, then you know what option you have: win the initiative and file it, otherwise the referendum will not be on the same day and not accuse us of stalling.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u240	Comrade Kremjar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u241	I am very glad that I made the day a little better for my colleague Janša with my first performance, and I am sad that I am not with the other; but it explained that this was supposed to be a replica. I don't mix the referendum and the rally, I know very well what's one thing and what's another. I am mixing, of course, or I am not mixing, but I am opposed to the logic that I can talk about the way - we are solving things just because this is the way we are going to agree, because we are going to cancel the Constitutional Court decision with a referendum, which, of course, is not acceptable in this case. I'm talking about the idea, the logic, not what anyone's saying. Against this I say, and I say that it is not possible that every branch of power must do its job to know when and why the referendum is and to what questions it answers. That's what I was going to say with this parable, not anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u242	Comrade Wolf. There aren't enough debaters left, that'll be the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today it was quite a few times in the debate to feel the question that was hanging in the air, who was guilty of being erased, and several different interpretations of this guilt were made. Of course, I don't think it's the LDS' fault, it's not the Constitutional Court's fault, and then Mr Krivic, Mr Ribičič, was mentioned, not to mention, Minister Bohinc. No, it's probably not this opposition either, but it's my fault that the government has caused an unconstitutional and illegal extermination. And that was the then Demos government. And I don't feel guilty about it, but I feel responsible, and believe me, I'm not doing this with pleasure, and we have to eliminate some of the unconstitutionality that they caused in 1992, but the Constitutional Court has just ruled on it. Of course, we must remove this unconstitutionality if we have written ourselves a democratic rule of law somewhere else. On the 1st item of the agenda, we were very instructed by the opposition about what respect for the Constitution means. It has been said that the great government coalition today has the opportunity to perform a correctional exam. This great coalition has passed the correctional exam. Here's the verdict, the date's set, the referendum's signed. And now I think it's your turn, fellow opposition colleagues, to take some kind of correctional exam that I hope you'll fall on. Why? On your initiative, at least to the extent that I understand the law, I would not go to every question separately, because today, from the various debaters on my right, it has been very well argued that the individual elements of these issues raise, at least in my opinion, doubts that they are constitutionally compatible. I'm sorry, Comrade Janš, but we never talk about a conviction, because that was a bit of a hard word. This is the opinion contained in the explanation of the decision and the final judgment will be given by the person responsible for it in this country. And from the content of these referendum issues, it can be felt that in every way it wants to bypass the Constitutional Court's decision; that the unconstitutional situation established by the Constitutional Court is in some way also to continue. In this way, in my opinion, the decision of the Constitutional Court, the decision of the Constitutional Court, is not respected. Only a failure to respect the Constitutional Court’s decision, on the other hand, constitutes a serious breach of the rule of law enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution, as well as of the principles of the division of power already mentioned today. The Constitution, as well as the Constitutional Court's decision, bind not only the National Assembly but also the nationals of that State when the authorities exercise direct power by deciding at the referendums. I would not explain here now in any cases because the decision of the Constitutional Court in this part is very clear. That is why I believe that this decision must be supported, and I will personally support it, so that the full referendum initiative can be taken to the Constitutional Court in order to be judged and rendered final judgment on it. How constitutional order affects everyday life depends most on how the Constitution defines fundamental human rights and what the protection of these rights is in one country. In this regard, I think it is also a very important principle of the division of power, which obviously some do not like. Why am I saying this? Today, many harsh words were made at the expense of the Constitutional Court. Not only to individuals who make up a constitutional court - and here today it has also been said how they are elected, but to the institution. And this principle of power-sharing is given to the courts - it is said, in this case, to the Constitutional Court - which can put this role in conflict with the public-elected Parliament, with the executive power and not least the position of any political party, either in opposition or position. Again, I have a feeling that some people don't like it. Because we have witnessed today the serious discredits of this Constitutional Court. I say, thank God that we have the principle of the division of power exercised. Thank God. For the judgment, or all constitutional judgment, is the most powerful and, in my opinion, the only weapon available to us at this moment in the protection of democracy from its populist form in the manner demonstrated today by the representatives of the opposition. It's nothing but populism. And constitutional forms are a means of overcoming differences between the language of desire and the language of rights. If, of course, you want to do otherwise, you will, of course, have to go a little further and start thinking about how we will define the constitution differently if you want to change something concrete about it. And I am counting and I hope, in fact, that the Constitutional Court, in the event that these individual referendum issues are examined, will put a stop to the constitution that will be placed on the brink of the populist instincts that we are witnessing to them. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Populism, Mr. Jože Jerovšek. [[...]] Because trust in the law cannot be created overnight, it is much easier to lose it than to gain it. And there is nothing I can do to avoid one part of the implementation of my colleague Tsukjati, but I also think that colleague Janš touched on the sixth indent of Article 5 if I recall well or the fifth indent of this initiative. When we speak, I call it the so-called officer amendment. An amendment was tabled on the Internal Policy Committee on a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party. There was an extensive discussion and a weighting of how to write this down. I'm sorry, no opposition - you just decided to go out. I'm sorry, but look, today was -- at least that's how I understood -- the problem is that we're protecting someone. Look, I think that colleague Janš, you know what direct participation in an armed conflict means. That those who issue orders at different levels, according to my assessment and following our understanding of this article, this person undoubtedly participates in an armed conflict. At the final stage before the Hague court, not people who are small soldiers, pawns, but generals who gave orders. Therefore, that comparison with [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If I exclude an invitation for which I do not know what it is, but anyone who has given orders has also directly participated in an armed conflict, which means that according to this logic should not belong to him, this right may not be granted under the system law - permanent residence permit. [[...]] That's what the law stipulates. But there is something, of course your proposal on the referendum question goes far beyond what was adopted on the committee. You remove one basic condition, and this is direct participation in armed conflicts, which means that someone would suffer - it would not be available to him because after the status is such that at a given time he was employed somewhere, you also extend to members of other federal authorities: customs officers employed in other federal inspection services, which were quite something at the time of independence. Of course, you may already know the reasons and what you want to achieve by doing so. But I think it's going too far. Then, talking was also about compromise, and I don't think there's much point in talking about it. Of course, I would say something else that is more than obvious that the opposition has decided to run a marathon course on this issue, because it is the answer, because it is in some way beneficial to it. Of course, I hope, and I want those marathoners on my left to run the final lap this time, not the honorable ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u244	She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The topic, which is becoming increasingly convertible, is hampered by a number of problems. Today we've heard that human rights are bullshit. Today, you have constantly encouraged your interlocutors to raise doubts about the constitutionality, the state regime of RS and our institutions. But what is crucial, I think that a key obstacle is happening there when it comes to a census that concerns Slovenians in their completely "Blütenboden" ideology we do not want to have anything to do with Southerners or with Yugoslavs, as has already been said today. Which is true, 12 years ago. In fact, they had nothing to do with their rights. And the discussions on this subject are certainly exhausting, but the more they are encouraged and encouraged by precisely certain political calculus, the more forgotten is the original sin of the whole problem. This goes further and, in fact, the plan for all these discussions goes in this direction to also go down. The fact is, and it must inevitably be reiterated that in the rule of law, the rights to permanent residence of people from the former Yugoslavia were denied, and Slovenia did so by its own free will 12 years ago. She did so without a decision, without a clear legal basis and without a possibility of appeal. With this she denied that in Slovenia we were all the same before the law. The referendum issues also deny this equality. Moreover, the motions for a referendum even consider that we should punish those officials who would issue decisions to the deleted, so that such implementation would make the crimes worse. In short, the reverse logic of the whole discussion is precisely that those persons who implement or implement a Constitutional Court decision should be punished. This is the most absurd way to promote the division of the Slovenian authorities into executive, legislative and judicial powers. I repeat that, but I repeat another thing at the same time. In the entire discussion, there was a rolling ground, not only trust, as I say to this division of power, but also absolute trust in the constitution of the Constitutional Court. And let me repeat: if today the lustration has begun with the Constitutional Court, let me repeat that the Constitutional Court Judge may be released prematurely in a manner prescribed by law and only if he so requests, if he is punished for a crime by a penalty of deprivation of liberty or if he permanently loses his working ability or ability to perform his duties. The National Assembly, which gave this Constitutional Court the legitimacy by voting, cannot, as discussed today, take it away. I agree with Majda when she says that this snowball rolling down the hill is always bigger or we get dimensions that can be broken, but I agree not only with the fact that it can be dug up and left behind. I think that this experience of such discussions, which undoubtedly have its purpose and its benefit, will certainly leave behind more than just melted water. For I think that the whole issue is built on the destruction of dignity, the only dignity that man overcomes. These are his rights, which should never and never have been nonsense, as we have heard today from our colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u246	My colleague Anderlič will have his last word in the debate today, and then I will order a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u247	Today we have started with the basic presentation of some parliamentary groups that we are dealing with the initiative of voters and voters for the previous legislative referendum. It has been so cleverly disguised that it is actually an initiative - or in the final stage, even if you wish, it could have turned into a request for a referendum of two political parties, which is a fact; they are collecting signatures, they were collected before the National Assembly had an extraordinary meeting on the so-called system law, markets and everywhere, because it would not have been possible otherwise that on Monday evening Mr. - I do not know the point of how to write, and Mr Grims was also present during the session when you were incapacitated, with a letter and a letter that they had signed for an inspection in the main office. There were 4,000 of them at the time; and as a result of the adopted law in the second reading! We haven't even accepted it yet! We rejected an amendment then, yours, to Article 1, quite interesting. So you've done this before. And of course it is also possible to explain that that argument when you say: you wanted to have two referendums for one day, it will not be because you do not want it. No! No! Because you have taken this initiative to the electorate and to the electorate and with questions that go far below the civilisation standards, which go far beyond what voters and voters on the plebiscite have decided, and what Slovenia then guaranteed to all the inhabitants of Slovenia, that they will have under the same conditions, under the same conditions as the State, all the rights that go to them: or from the status of citizenship, if they find themselves there, or from the status of permanent residence, or from the title of the work and any other who have been [[...]] [[The feedback from the bench.]] The country is in many areas. And you, you weren't here at the time, you don't even know what was going on. I believe you don't know, Mr. Bayuk, but you've gotten so used to it there in that world, but you've probably gotten so used to letting someone else talk. I knew it would be late for the president to remind you, but it's no big deal, I'm not going to get fired, so don't worry about it. You didn't know what was going on here at the time, that's what I believe, I'm sure. There's not much to wise up here. But of course you want those standards, those civilisational points for which the present inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia decided in large numbers to referendum. And we all have this summed up, we have promised, in all the demands that later took place both during the self-conquering war and after the peace was concluded and in Briona and beyond, these were sacred promises. I believe, Mr Bajuk, not for you, because you had no obligation to this country, we had it. At that time, a similar talk was made about these speakers: the swan sings to journalists and journalists who will honk into one horn unless otherwise. Today, it is said that those who do something will be punished worse. Indeed, some issues have not been clarified, some issues are obviously not clear - at least for some -: that we have more than 10 years of democracy, that we have created a legal order, that we have won the standards that compare us with European countries, that we have come so far with all the acts that in May we can be equal members of the European Union. Some things we haven't cleared up what these values are. Is it really necessary to keep on living and working in a way that requires that you have an enemy to fight and must be destroyed? I am very interested in which and from which individuals, those who were then erased, threaten the country of Slovenia with any danger - material, armed or anything else. Is it just because some standards apply both to us and to other countries that some people cannot enjoy these rights now? Is that what we promised? Is this what we're going to Europe for? I'm sure you don't. However, it would be very good to clear up some of the questions that I have read in some newspapers this week. My neighbor Rudy tells me every day some story about the millions of dollars he's been missing and the stamps in the suitcases and elsewhere. I read, I read every day - not every day, because it's getting on my nerves. Gentlemen, tell me how you worked! Let's get all the questions straight, let's get this straight. Look at the double morals! The 1999 decision - earlier, at point 1, I spoke about it. The decision ordered the registration of deleted persons in the register of the permanent population. This ministry and the government under Minister Suklet began, and the government under Bajuk did so, and now what happened at the time - I am very interested in what you have to do with it - and now all of a sudden, when the two decisions, because it was obviously too slow, were mismanaged by that 1999 decision; and suddenly you don't like what you did yourself. No, gentlemen, this double morality is kind of too brutal, kind of resisting. You are going so far on these issues of yours, and that is why it is certainly necessary to ask this question to the Constitutional Court, because in any way you want to open up the debate on these issues. You also require a revision of those decisions which have been adopted in accordance with all the legislation in the fourth indent. And you entrust this to one group in this country, not by official duty, not by the prosecutor, not by the lawyer, but by one group that will choose between us, those who have received the decisions, and they will need to be revised. In the same sentence, however, it does not seem appropriate for you to execute a decision that you had partially implemented in 2000. That's not what you think. The revision is to put those who have gone through all the procedures into trial and fear that you will expel them tomorrow, as you wrote in the last indent, that you will write in the law additional penalties. It's all there. You are referring to the referendums as democratic in other countries. Switzerland granted women electoral rights in 1976, not such a democratic country in these respects. Slovenia and Yugoslavia had this long-standingly different arrangement. Tell me, when did Germany have its last referendum and another country? It is not so common to refer to how democratic this is. But it's about taking responsibility for the electorate. You're talking about a intersection where we're supposed to meet, where you're supposed to have a marriage where we're supposed to have a marriage. Where, of course, third and fourths are expected to appear with different variants. Where it sounds like there's only gonna be a real law that's gonna be radical enough to ban enough stuff back. Is this a compromise if you say: we do not recognise the decision of the Constitutional Court, no mistakes and no entries that would go after automation, just what should be done according to the decision. Is it a compromise to play the Constitutional Court in this way? I believe that if this does not suit you, which was decided in 1999, then adopted in 2000 and the National Assembly in 2001 and in 2003 a new assessment and so on. In short, if all of this doesn't suit you, you're simply discrediting the Constitutional Court, listing who's been where. It was, I think, already said that the first constitutional court in 1999 was not so composed. If you are talking about the compromise and the intersection, then it is certainly necessary to conclude that the decision of the Constitutional Court was issued, that the other, when we tried to regulate the law, otherwise ordered that - also that was wrong, and that the decision of the Constitutional Court was then, in autumn or winter, reaffirmed that something was wrong. Is it really possible to talk about the background, the arrogance, I don't know what? We're talking about these questions of yours, I've tried two indents or three to analyze them, and I deeply believe that you wrote them to prevent "explanation" at two referendums at the same time. For now it will be judged, because it must go, because it is far from under the madness that I have spoken of before, and of course it can linger on. In the best faith, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy and Members of the Committee on Internal Policy adopted the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, including some other amendments. And I am sure that if that second-reading law ever comes to third and is also adopted, it will also have to be attacked at some points, not on our part, because we will accept it, but on the part of the affected and others, and there are many questions if it does not have any cancellation in any part. So there is no choice but to support this proposal for a decision, and in my best faith, I am waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide something soon and that we can still catch 4.4. as a possible deadline for both referenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u248	I'd like to close the debate now. Comrade Companion, please? You're asking us to discuss it again. Then, of course, I'll give everyone the opportunity within the time allowed just a moment to see how long there is left. An hour and seven minutes. We'll go this way once Please, then we'll ask everyone who wants a word. [[...]] And in an hour, we'll try Colleague Squirrel. [[...]] Order! Next, please, colleague Mamič, colleague Sok, then colleague Janša, then colleague Vučko, colleague Butolen, Gračner, Kavčič, Majnik, Kremjar, Potrč, Barovic, Yuri, Grošelj. Good. Yeah, now we've got 17. I suggest we limit it to, say, three minutes. That's a fair deal, I think. We'll start with a colleague of ours. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u249	President! I hope that those who have not been reported to this debate are not to be counted. That's the deal. But no matter what, I'm only gonna talk for three minutes. The President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u250	Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u251	I have an explicit debate only on the content of the decision. [[...]] The first question is whether it is possible to amend the reasoning of the decision. I've already asked this question in my first performance. There are some arguments in this very explanation that they do not. No, I've made them public here, and I've suggested that those you've proposed withdraw them. Then I have a question, President, that it is written in the last part of the decision "the individual elements of the above explanation are also elaborated in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is an integral part of this explanation." I have to tell you, this is the first time it's happened, I think it's the first time that's happened to my colleagues. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u252	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u253	You could listen to me. [[...]] I'm talking about the content of the decision. Like I said in my first part of the show. For the first time, we went essentially through the opinion of the legislative and legal service. Until now, when the National Assembly has taken such a decision in accordance with Article 16, I think that Article 16 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative has taken the view of the Legislative and Legal Service. This found a potential non-compliance with the constitution in four indents but you struck at all seven indents [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] And some of the arguments are not true. [[...]] Then there's this strange practice that we're going to put a quote from a newspaper on the Constitutional Court. We haven't done that yet. The text that was the basis of the business body was a political text, but it was not written in the manner of going to the Constitutional Court. I don't think that content should go to a constitutional court. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, look, the newspaper quotes are in there. [[...]] The working body should prepare this. And some solutions should be withdrawn from the explanation. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, I didn't say I'd vote against it. [[...]] I think, however, the President that we should find that today the National Assembly should follow the framework set out in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but not to extend this position with some arguments, I am entitled to warn in the debate that they do not hold, but you did not give an answer that they do not. I think the working body has prepared very bad material. Everyone was just waiting for the debate to go public, but the content itself is bad. And that, colleague Anderlič, about the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group regarding officers. And you said honestly that you're assessing that the content of the system law is likely to fall in constitutional court. This is a classic argument that such content is resolved by constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u254	Time's up, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u255	That's why constitutional law is needed. The Constitutional Law will go through a decision of the Constitutional Court in certain contexts. We all know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u256	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u257	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u258	As far as your comment is concerned. There was an opportunity to discuss this on the Committee, and an amendment could be tabled by the end of the debate. If it's an integral part of this, I think it is. I'll take it from here. My friend Mamić. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I must conclude that colleague Anderlich has very intelligently found that the opposition has begun to collect signatures before a second consideration of the system law was carried out in Parliament. We know from practice that the opposition, with its arguments in any way, cannot convince you in any way that what you have set out to accept and that it will be bad for you to accept. The only thing I don't know is if you can trust the National Assembly with who brought you this classified information to collect the signed markets.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u260	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u261	They're bothering me. I can't finish. So, who brought you this classified information, or does your colleague Rudy bring you this information that tells you about these millions of dollars that are going to disappear somewhere? Because until tonight, I was sure that where these millions of LDS are going, you know the best, because your people are sitting on all the boards and they know the most about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u262	My friend Janš. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u263	First of all, I'd like to correct some incorrect allegations. Let's just say, from Mr Anderlich, that we don't exactly need to follow Switzerland and that it's not the most democratic country, because it gave women electoral rights only in 1975. Mr Anderlič, women did not get electoral rights in Slovenia until 1990, as did men. Since there were no free elections before, could there have been free elections before 1990, or could you have voted for several parties? [[...]] You couldn't. Other such indication [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u264	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u265	Switzerland is a pretty good example of democracy, at least for us. As far as the opposition is concerned, it is taking advantage of this topic and is sitting you down for an election campaign. You're the one who called three extraordinary sessions on this subject. This day is totally unnecessary, because of the opposition it would not be. The first point should be resolved already last week, and a constitutional judgment is totally unnecessary in this case. If there are 13 non-constitutions in these initiatives, then you must be sure, especially because 90% of the commentators support you, as Mr Potrč said earlier, that you will convince this people that this is unconstitutional. But it's about the voters who elected you. Everyone was smart back then. How, then, is there suddenly no more confidence in these same people? In short, you could calmly, instead of putting this on the Constitutional Court, go into serious convincing the electoral body. You have on your side, as you say, all the media, all the intellectuals, 90% of the commentators, most of the elective body that voted for you. You will convince people not to vote in favour of the issues which are unconstitutional in 13 points! But you obviously don't rely so much on strong arguments, but you rely more on your political allies in the Constitutional Court. It's probably a good calculation, just don't say that you want it to be decided on the same day at two referendums, because then it's not possible. And you yourself know that you cannot stop the referendum on the system law by doing so. An initiative will be launched soon, which will not be rejected. And there will be a referendum. And you're the one who's stalling. And not to report to the opposition that he's trying to bring it closer to the elections. You're approaching the second referendum by election.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u266	Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u267	Very briefly. Thank you for your word. My colleague Sok just confirmed the claim I have already made today that the referendum is, of course, being misused to achieve what cannot be achieved through the parliamentary procedure. Yes, you can laugh, but, you know, I'm afraid, I'm really afraid in the future of the country, my colleague Janš, of this country, which in such a valuable, manipulative, speculative way collects political points and so vehemently speaks, go, go. If a political option wins in this country that violates the rights of one at the expense of the other, then it is sad that we are going to Europe at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u268	My friend Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u269	Thank you very much. On the left hand side, it was said that those who had not previously reported should not be debated, so I will give up this debate. However, nothing new was said in the ten-hour debate, so that these three minutes would not have contributed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u270	My friend Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u271	Thank you. With each of the discussers, there is an increase in this strife or difference. Finally, the result of all this will be that we will in various ways impede the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I have already repeated twice, and I will do so for the third time that, in our legal system, the decision of the Constitutional Court is the highest possible decision to which no appeal is possible. The biggest banal thing, which is possible, is to write two referendums, that Slovenian citizens will have to vote twice, and in the end they will not decide anything, because the decision will be implemented in one way or another. But not because of us, not because of me, but because of those who were in power in 1992 and because of those 18,000 people who did not apply for citizenship at the time, they deleted from the residence register. This was found by the Constitutional Court and required that the status should be regulated for that period from the deletion until some have settled their status. Just about that. We haven't talked about it, it wasn't in our political agenda, it wasn't in any other program. And when you say that the Constitutional Judges are ours, they certainly can't be ours, because otherwise they wouldn't have cooked for us this year, but they could have agreed that we would have handled these things immediately after the elections. So it's completely pointless to say that these are our people. And what will happen at the final stage? In the final stage, it will be done that we will be involved here with some 12-year-old problems, hindering the enforcement of this decision, but these people will be, because we will become part of a democratic community called Europe, in which fundamental human rights and freedoms are the highest value, and also the differences are the highest value, they will complain there, and we will end up with what has happened in Italy, when the country has to pay for every day that it has not implemented a Constitutional Court decision, EUR 300,000. So, in the end, we will decide, and we will do moral damage to the country and, of course, worse, a great deal of material damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u272	My friend Kavečič. Comrade Majnikov, colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u273	Look, I'd really like to object to Mr. Squirrel or explain it to him. When he speaks of a constitutional law in a way that he says, "rightly because that part of the law that speaks of a population can be constitutionally disputed, it is necessary to adopt a constitutional law so that it cannot be repealed." This seems completely unacceptable to me and I prefer not to think about where it is going, because tomorrow they will say, 'You, because you already have gray hair, we accept the constitutional law that you have to color yourself,' so that I will not say anything else, which could also apply. As far as women's electoral rights are concerned, during the war they won it with us during World War II. I believe we have a completely different starting point here and a different attitude towards that time. So I believe you can't be proud, you'd rather go to a partial referendum on Swiss cantons, although, as I know, you haven't really done it for the whole country. Even if one of these cases were constitutionally disputed at the discretion of the majority, the Constitutional Court should be judged. There may not be thirteen of those points that are on the verge of constitutionality or in our view are unconstitutional, but even if there were one, and certainly the two that I spoke of before, they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u274	Comrade Kremjar, you're giving up. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u275	Over many of my fellow students with academic titles, I am disappointed about this problem because they said completely different things at different times. However, I cannot accept as a starting point the discussion that we will adopt constitutional law just to change the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The only way to adopt constitutional law is to settle matters that belong to constitutional matter. And Mr Janez Podobnik, who is to blame for this – not in my eyes, but by the opposition – knows that we have amended Article 80 of the Constitution four years ago in relation to the elections, that we have accepted the content of the Constitution. What we are now talking about is not the content of the Constitution, but the content of the constitution is that we do not respect human rights. And if the only starting point, Mr Janša, is the constitutional law that you have offered, which does not recognise the decision of the Constitutional Court, then this is a bad starting point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u276	Comrade Parallel Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u277	I'd like to correct the statement of my colleague Potts, who was not correct. The constitutional law in this case would touch on the fundamental constitutional charter. So it is entirely from a constitutional point of view. And in one of his statements, and also his colleague Anderlich, I would like to correct it because their interpretation was not correct. I am convinced that the constitutional law is necessary for us to apply it, as stated, to the Constitutional Court. I didn't speak in any way or how much. Otherwise, constitutional law is unnecessary. And that's what happened in 2000, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that the legislator can intervene in the Constitutional Court's decision by constitutional law if he has a political majority to do so. The President of the Constitutional Court also said that we could do this in a different way than they did in their decision. She said, however, that they reserve the right to evaluate such an intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u278	I'm a colleague of Mrzelov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u279	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, dear people. I, as you know, talk a little, I'm very quiet, and I listen a lot. I listen and wonder at this unbearable ease of thought, speech and judgment on such important things as the fate of an individual, even of a nation and also of humanity, for human rights are at stake. We probably learn so little from history, because as many as 60, 70 years, it has not been 100 years since the entire Slovenian nation was meant to be wiped out. Anybody remember anything? Then we can keep talking. Here's a book, maybe someone borrowed it, I took it here in our library, it's a book deleted. At least we could look at this to be more sensitive to some things we're playing and probably don't even realize how people are looking at us. If anyone has listened to the radio and television broadcasts now, you may have heard the reactions that they said that this Parliament should step down. They did not say that he should resign and that, in Parliament, this party and this party should resign, they said that Parliament should resign. Because this putting problems on people with a referendum, it's not right and it's unbearable. We were chosen to do so, so people trusted us to talk to experts, to think things through and make precise decisions. We're going to Europe. We have made great progress in recent years, in recent decades, and we are now aware of how weak we are, how few of us are. Now reported from Moscow on these serious events, they say Moscow, the 12 millionth city, we are not yet a 2 million nation, and we are actually talking about people who have been living with us with such ease, and now we are doing injustices to them. I don't know if we're aware of what we're doing. But with a referendum, it's just like you know. The same people I listen to talk about things [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Is it over now? [[...]] You can still do that. Well, I've said a lot, because the curtain has fallen, thank you very much. [[...]] Thank you very much. Keep telling me if you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u280	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u282	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u283	It's like we've been making fun of people and people for 10 hours. Why? Because the so-called alleged non-constitutionality was already known in 1994. Did it really take six, seven, eight, nine, ten years for us to argue about it now? Or someone in the Constitutional Court then locked this alleged unconstitutionality in a drawer and saved it until today. Above all, it is ugly that so much time, today ten hours and three sessions, we devote to the content of the 10 years old and to the content that really doesn't matter anymore, because everything that we're fighting half to each other is already happening. What's the point of all of us thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u284	A colleague of Grošelj and a colleague of Montenegro? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We'll decide exactly at midnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-10-SDZ3-Izredna-40.ana.u285	Colleagues and colleagues, please check the functioning of your voting devices; each must have a light on fire, which means that the voting device is fine. Please do this so that there will be no complications during the vote. It is midnight and we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I'm asking for peace in the hall. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor states of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 [[EPA 1016 / III]] , contained in an initiative to electorate and electorate signatures in support of this request, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular its Articles 2, 14, 23, 26, 27, 28 and 29, second paragraphs 32, 63, second paragraphs 120, 153, 155 and 161 of the Constitution, which requires the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on it." This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. 73 present, 46 for and 20 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. With this we have exhausted the agenda of the 40th extraordinary session. All I care about is a pleasant start to a new day! Thank you very much.
