ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Good day to those who are or will still be invited to attend the meeting under points 46 of the Extraordinary Meeting of the State Assembly. I'm starting this session now. I have invoked it on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. First of all, I will inform you that a number of colleagues, due to other obligations, cannot attend today's meeting. These are colleagues of Battelli, Christmas, Onion, Kebrich, Mag. Kramberger, Levič, Malovr, Mamić, Peterle, colleague of Possončeva, Pukšič, colleague of Tisovic and colleague of Villa Trophynik. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Good-bye to all of you once again. First, we will move on to the establishment of the agenda of the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS, NSI and SNS groups propose to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a decision on the basis of Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative concerning the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor countries of the former SFRY in the Republic of Slovenia, which had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12. 1990 and 25.2. 1992. On behalf of the voter group of 21 May, the Magi introduced this initiative. Branko Grimes. They want a word of explanation. Three minutes, please, colleague Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u2	So, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative clearly states that it is not possible to continue the legislative procedure, nor should we have these items on the agenda today. In the event that the eight-day period for the appeal of those who have submitted the previous referendum initiative does not expire, but in the event of a complaint by the initiator, not until the final or final decision of the Constitutional Court. We have been informed that the initiator of the first referendum initiative has today filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court, which means that these deadlines have not yet expired, and this point cannot be addressed by the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u3	The representatives of the other parliamentary groups would like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! With the possible consideration of this item on the agenda, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of government, will violate Slovenian legislation, notably the law on referendum and human initiative. The additional argument why we should not address these points today is, of course, the activity before the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, I estimate that it has been sufficiently done and sufficiently illustrated the referendum outcome on the question of how to resolve the issue of self-exposure. On the other hand, all Members and Members should, of course, have in mind the decision of the Constitutional Court of February of this year, which points out in advance that, insofar as the system law is adopted and in connection with the system law, of course, the referenda lodged or the permission to collect signatures, there will be an unconstitutional situation in our country and, of course, none of us should aspire to the emergence of such a situation. I, today and still, on behalf of the National Party Group, call on all those political parties and parliamentary groups that advocate the payment of damages in favour of the award of Slovenian citizenship and, thirdly, who are willing to play Slovenian independence in order to define themselves in advance negative to the system law and thus create the possibility of a definitive solution to this issue, this is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, based on the referendum outcome, which in 95% of those who have come to the referendum, has determined that such a solution, as the government now proposes, is not appropriate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should accede to a new system law based on the response given by citizens and citizens at the referendum 4.4.2004. In the National Party, we will oppose this kind of confusion and the creation of a chaotic situation, so we will oppose the item being placed on the agenda or supporting the withdrawal from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Would any of the other MPs want it? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have now received a report from the working body on this item on the agenda. On page 6, it says that the National Assembly specifically assessed this initiative, an initiative that was discussed at the previous extraordinary meeting and, as such, rejected it, the sentence reads: "The representative of the initiators has publicly stated that she will not appeal against the decision of the State Assembly within the legal time limit." I do not know how this statement has been made, it has been signed, because in view of the reasons given by the Constitutional Court, that the initiators in such a case are provided with judicial protection and that if it is lodged within the legal time limit, we assess that today there are simply no formal conditions for the State assembly to deal with this point if it is still time to bring legal proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u7	Anyone else in this group wants a word, or are we going to decide on a motion to withdraw? He doesn't want to. Please check your voting devices. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Mr President, you cannot put to the vote. You need to briefly determine that the conditions are not met. I think even if we accept that most people accept that this is a decision, we should not act unlawfully, unlawfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u9	I will suspend the session in two minutes and ask the Head of Legal and Legislative Services to come forward and make a statement. I believe that there are no procedural reservations for us to decide, but it is also right to hear the opinion of the legislative and legal service. Two minutes' rest. And the Head of Legal Services, please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u11	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. This issue has already been raised on the Committee and with regard to the proposal to withdraw the agenda item, I should like to clarify in particular that in this case it is not a matter of continuing the legislative procedure, as a proposal for a decision on the initiative is being considered; the law itself is not being considered. As you know, the National Assembly, if I am right in memory, has adopted a special decision to wait until the law has been examined until the proceedings before the Constitutional Court are carried out. However, as regards the procedure with the initiative, this procedure shall be conducted in the context of Article 13 before the President, who shall take appropriate action when issues relating to the initiative of such a nature are to be dealt with before the national assembly. From this point of view, in its opinion on the new initiative, the legislative and legal service assessed that this is a new initiative, because new issues are being addressed in the work and, as such, in fact, it means its own matter and not any complete coverage or overlap with an earlier initiative, which would make it really difficult to discuss the new initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u12	The National Assembly will therefore decide on the proposal of three parliamentary groups to withdraw the item from the agenda. We're voting. You say with your finger that the device doesn't work, and I'll take that into account. Zupanov's colleague raised her hand. Can you do it again? [[...]] Comrade Marshich, please take another look. Before the vote, I asked you to check the devices. Otherwise, I wouldn't have taken your comment into account because it was recognized. But since my colleague Zupanov did it in time, we will now repeat the vote. I repeat the vote. We're voting. [[If the hand's up in time, then I'll take it into account, otherwise I won't.]] 61 in attendance, 17 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for withdrawal has not been adopted. We do not have other proposals for withdrawal, nor do we have proposals for enlargement. I now propose to the National Assembly to set the agenda as proposed by reference. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 44 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY [[This point will be 15 minutes less than three hours long]] The draft decision was submitted to the Internal Policy Committee for consideration at agenda item 1. Would you like the chairman of the committee, Comrade Lavrinc, a word? Please. Mr Lavrinc will complement the explanation of the proposal for a decision, for which he has a maximum of 5 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered this point at its extraordinary meeting on Friday. It is clear from the report that, just as today, they are first-time initiators, and for them, Mr Grims, they have thought that it is not possible to discuss the content of this initiative crediblely, since the previous one has not been decided. However, as today, we followed the opinion of the legislative and legal service presented and, of course, we held a debate on the decision submitted and also on the reasons. At first, as always, we listened to the introductory presentation of the initiators given by the mag. Branko Grims, and the report shows that she was accurate, determined, that is, quite long, and I think it would be wrong to use those few minutes as much as I can to repeat it. Then you also have in the report how the debate was going on, as expected, of course. The opposition's types were again asking exactly the same questions as they were at the time of the previous initiative. And also from opposition types, similarly, only this time can I find that MPs and MPs of government kind have somehow blocked themselves from a substantive discussion, because they felt that we were not listening to each other. The procedure was also accompanied by an initiative or a proposal for a different decision, as set up by the three groups of Members. This is the Liberal Democracy Group, the United List and DeSUS. You have this on page 5 and such a proposal for a decision based on Articles 15 and 18 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative has also been adopted, including the explanation proposed. That's it. On our part, of course, the Committee proposes that the proposed decision be voted on and adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the SLS Group and its representative, Comrade Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly state the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which, in the case of the proposed decision, as proposed by the working body, is the same as it was at our previous meeting. We will not support the proposal that the National Assembly rejects the proposal to call for a preliminary legislative referendum because we assess that this means an unjustified and deliberate delay in the adoption of the bill because it is a matter of repeating some of the content and arguments that have already been tabled and reasoned in the context of previous referendum initiatives. What we said at the previous meeting would have slipped into the following arguments. The procedure served today by the National Assembly is second in line and means that we have become arbitrators in the National Assembly and decide whether or not to call for a referendum. The legal basis for such a decision shall not be in the current Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, we have entered the premises of the predecessor and have predetermined the procedure and we are arbitrarily deciding whether or not to call a referendum. The National Assembly will always decide only politically. It's always political. It also raises a question for us because we know that, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, the initiators have, in the event that the national assembly rejects the referendum call for protection, that is to say, a request for a test of the decision of the national assembly not to invite a referendum to the Constitutional Court is admissible. And what does that mean? It means an unusual paradox that the burden of proving constitutionality will fall entirely on the initiators, the request for a referendum and this debate moves from the House of State to the Constitutional Court and the direct relationship between the initiators for the referendum and the Constitutional Court. Even for such practice and the purpose of this procedure, there is no basis for this nor in the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and, of course, even less in the current constitution. So, the National Assembly uses this to wash its hands, formally to determine politically, to find against the constitutional or some other bad intentions, to refuse and to say to the proponents, "You find your right in the Constitutional Court." Such a course is unacceptable for us and we will therefore not support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Celigoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have supported the adoption of a law, which, together with the proposal for a law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision, has covered the issue of regulating the status of citizens of other countries of the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, following a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which found that the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other States of the successors of SFRJ with the Constitution was not compatible. The considerable disagreement on the content of the law under consideration led from extensive coordination within the institutions to a public presentation of opinions and multiple decisions on referendum initiatives before the Constitutional Court. Regardless of the extensive debates that have been held, we have not yet reached a final decision on the bill. In the DeSUS Group, we have always held the position that the issue of so-called deleted, which has been pestering all of us for several years, must be resolved satisfactorily and effectively. Some issues have also been considered by many to be complementary to the law, such as the exclusion of the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits for persons employed in the JLA who have not responded to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and have participated directly in armed conflicts in the JLA aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law only sets out in sufficient detail the status of such persons and the possibility of obtaining citizenship, as it explicitly requires such persons to refuse to issue a permit unless such person proves that the call of the Presidency did not respond because it would put themselves or family members at risk. Furthermore, the law itself excludes the authorisation of persons who have acted against the values protected by the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia, even in the event of anti-State action. In our view, the issue of compensation is also satisfactorily resolved. Thus, the issue of so-called deleted is still very different. From the fact that the State must, in accordance with the constitutional decision and respect for human rights, correct the wrongs that have occurred because of the disappearance from the register of the population, to the contrary that the citizens of the former republics owe the former SFRJ that they are themselves guilty of irregular status and the resulting consequences if they have not taken care of entering at a time when they should have done so. Today, we know that the living situations of so-called deleted are very different. And we can't throw them in the same basket. We well know that there are many of them who, due to administrative procedures, were unable to access their permanent residence in a timely manner. Some have not applied for it because of the loss of rights in another country, there has been a war in neighbouring Croatia and Bosnia. Some of them were different in mind, but is it not also acceptable in a democratic country? Some have taken a really pragmatic advantage of the situation. However, because of these we cannot compare the problem of all those affected. It is interesting that in Bosnia and Croatia the problem of obtaining permanent residence or citizenship has been solved in a more democratic way. All citizens of a given country had to apply for citizenship, not just one group of people. Many rights are attached to the formally recognised right of permanent residence. However, by her failure to recognize them, man’s dignity is the only one who suffers. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that there is no room in a democratic country for discrimination against people and for the responses that take place there and are based on intolerance. Just because you close your eyes to the problem doesn't mean you don't have a problem. It is the responsibility of the State to deal fairly with the issue raised by the Constitutional Court’s decision, that is to say, to verify the actual situation which has been present all these years. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law deals satisfactorily with open issues and that there is no need for the Constitutional Court to rule once again on the issue which it has already decided. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support the Committee's proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Dear Mr. President! Thank you very much. Fellow Members, fellow Members! Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are fully responsible for our efforts to comply with the Constitution and the laws in force in this country. Above all, we want the legislative function entrusted to us by the electorate and the electorate to be held accountable. Even when someone doesn't like it. And, of course, we also want to defend the National Assembly as an institution and at some point in time, and we have recently found that it is impossible for the National Assembly to adopt legislation. Approved a system-wide law on deleted persons. On formal issues, we are confused about the content. But once again, it is worth stressing that this is a law that we are adopting with the aim of eliminating the anti-constitutional situation that prevails in our country in this area. That this law is not a product of the so-called arrogance of government parties, but its content is a compromise. We forget that the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party were included in the second reading and that this law actually answers all the questions that the same voters and voters believe we do not want to solve properly, or even solve them to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Just looking at five solutions shows that this is not the case. This law, which we cannot adopt, sets out the selectivity and individual treatment of individual cases. It provides that a foreigner may be granted a permanent residence permit if he asks and proves that he is actually living in Slovenia from 90 on and, I emphasise, and if there are no grounds for refusing the residence permit provided for in Article 5. And this article provides among the grounds for refusal that this authorisation cannot be obtained by the convicted offenders of criminal offences and by individuals who, as an active military or civil person employed in the Yugoslav People's Army, have not responded to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 27.6.1991 and who have participated directly in armed conflicts in the JLA aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, unless it proves that the call of the Presidency did not respond because it would put himself or family members at risk. The law also provides for the annulment or termination of a permanent residence permit if it is found to have been issued on the basis of false data. Last but not least, the issue of compensation is linked to the actions and conduct of individuals, as stipulated by the law, and to the fact that non-profit damage in money is not recognised. These are compromise solutions that we have incorporated into the law for which you want the referendums not to be accepted. What makes it impossible for us to perform a legislative function? So by putting the same candidates, political parties, especially the Slovenian Democratic Party and, in two cases, New Slovenia, you are always putting forward new and new initiatives to call for a preliminary legislative referendum. There's a fourth in front of us today. Of course, we treat it completely independently and therefore the procedural complication at the beginning was totally unnecessary. On 2 February, the initiators Janez Janša and Andrej Bajuk gave an initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum. We decide, we discuss for a few hours, we send a request to the Constitutional Court for review. The Constitutional Court finds that most issues are contrary to the Constitution. On 3 March of the same year, the same motioner, the referendum issue, as well as the previous legislative referendum, should again be asked by the Constitutional Court to judge him, but it is again found that the referendum issue is contrary to the Constitution. On 17 May, a member of the Junior Slovenian Democratic Party re- tabled a referendum initiative, which the National Assembly considered and decided not to sign the referendum in this case, because the issue is vague, misleading and the Institute of the Referendum has been abused by the same motioners. This is how we assessed because we feel disabled in our legislative function. And also for the benefit of people who are going to the referendum, we are obliged to examine and consider any referendum issue as to whether the question is clear whether it is justified or not in breach of the Constitution. And in this particular case, which is now emerging to us, whether we are not in our legislative function because the same proponents are making the same initiatives, we are not. This is our duty, this is not our whim that we make up. And today the initiative of Branko Grims, a member of the Executive Committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has been tabled on 21 May. So the political party whose solutions we have incorporated into the law. You abuse the right to a referendum to tell people that the law does not apply. It's a substitute, a respected and respected, a wrong world. The solutions in the marriage are compromises; this is how I viewed them when we incorporated them into individual articles on the working body. So this is the wrong world. Therefore, the initiative or referendum issue that we are discussing today also has the following characteristics, which are identified not only by the legislative and legal services, including the President of the National Assembly and most of the members and members of the Internal Policy Committee. For the first time, the referendum issue is unclear and misleads voters and voters. Applicants are real skills, so they know that they are not designed in accordance with Article 18 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. They are proposing one question that reveals several different issues in the content. Such a question cannot be raised in the referendum, as the Slovenian electorate and the electorate also have the right to have his vote in favour or against the referendum question clearly reflected his free will. Because you know exactly that, we have assessed that it is pointless to ask you to correct the confusion, because it is not possible to remedy it differently than to put in a new initiative again. And again, and hopefully for the last time, we find that the initiators abuse the right to a referendum. Otherwise, you are based on the legal right to make referendum initiatives, but by the way you do it in order to invest them, namely the substantively different referendum initiatives, which are created in a vague, illegal manner, some also contrary to the Constitution, and that is to say that all active representatives of the same political parties are prejudiced to the right and at the same time the duty of the national assembly to adopt as soon as possible the necessary legal solutions to remedy the anti-constitutional situation. This is the duty of both opposition and government parties in this National Assembly. And to do so, with respect, in order to prevent the work of the National Assembly, or to procedurally suspend the adoption of the bill and not to pursue the objective or right that voters and voters may decide in a manner consistent with the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. So it's a clear and non-deceptive way. And so it would not be contrary to the Constitution, and people at the referendum could decide on matters governed by law. Therefore, in the House of Representatives, we support the proposal for a decision of the home labour body, and indeed those who know the contents of the system law, we also ask the opposition parties, because their solutions, including their solutions, are embedded in it, that we adopt this law and act as a legal state.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u20	Thank you very much, colleague Krebs. Now he has the word of his colleague, Sasha Peca. It will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u21	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, unlike the Liberal Democracy, we are not prepared to accept compromises on the basis of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, nor are compromises on the basis of our country's independence. Indeed, there was one of the few truths in the speech before me that found it to be a fourth referendum initiative or a request for signatures. And it is true that this National Assembly has been an arbitrator four times and has said no to citizens and citizens, and you must not collect signatures for the referendum. Four times this national assembly has said no to the wishes of the ruling majority, the referendum is no longer the most democratic form of decision-making since you found that, of course, the referendum will is different from the political will of the Liberal Democracy or the United List of Social Democrats. To talk about the exploitation of Slovenian legislation or the play of Slovenian legislation because citizens and citizens adhere to the letters of law is unwise, is irrelevant and harmful to the further development of our country. In this case, as in all previous four cases, citizens and citizens, whether they come from this or that political option, whether or not the officials of an individual party have kept the letters of the law. But because you are afraid of the outcome of the referendum, of course you do not recognize and allow the referendum to be carried out. If a national convention is to be held today, or if a national assembly today is to adhere to the law, there should normally be no problem. The application has been submitted. Qualified signatories are clear. The referendum issue is clear. The National Assembly is all it should be, or the President of the National Assembly, the deadline for collecting signatures. Just as the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative imposes, and without over-the-counter agenda items at extraordinary meetings and without undue complications within the competent home work bodies. In the National Party, we strongly oppose the desire of the Liberal Democracy and the United List to place itself on the role of laws in our society, to assert the right when it takes up the role of an arbitrator and with its power, power within the number of Members, to decide what is democratic and what is not democratic in our country. It decides when citizens can decide at the referendum and when citizens should not decide at the referendum. You have all been very pleased to support the referendum on EU and NATO integration. There was never a speech at the time that our citizens were unable to decide on such an important matter as integration into Euro-Atlantic links. But today, when content or question is different, of course our citizens are no longer able, according to your opinion, to decide on this matter. In the National Party, we estimate that the referendum of 4.4. this year is sufficiently clear and sufficiently visual or should show everyone, including those in the ruling party and those in the government, that citizens and citizens do not want the way you offer them to solve the problem of self-exposure. The outcome tells us clearly or should I tell you, you who do not accept that the Slovenian State opposes the payment of damages. That the Slovenian state opposes the award of Slovenian citizenship. But of course because it is not in favor and according to your program, with your aspirations and your desire to hunt for new voters, you will oppose it in any way. This is, on the other hand, a financial damage to the Republic of Slovenia in the following year or a budget that will burden the next period or, of course, the damage to the status of Slovenian citizens. The story of self-exposure is, of course, artificially created by the Slovenian National Party. As a rule, it's timed from your side during this period. Properly drawn on your part to be able to drag on for some time or indefinitely. But the fact is, whoever wanted to did it, he chose or regulated the status of whatever he wanted during that period of independence in our country. The conditions weren't difficult. This has even been brought to our attention by the EU's legal committee. We were even reminded of this by the United Nations organization when they said that Slovenia's own legislation was in line with the standards of both international organisations or integrations. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that Slovenia was more than generous during that period, both by granting citizenship and by granting the status of temporary or permanent residence. But of course, all these arguments, all these assessments coming from both domestic legal circles and international legal circles in this case, because they are contrary to your political beliefs, contrary to or equal to the wishes of citizens and citizens, you are not subject to them. In last year, so in 2003, a public story began around the Constitutional Court ruling that raised the story of self-exposure in the media orbit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia later, according to my assessment on the basis of the contested decision of the Constitutional Court, found a solution, of course in quotations, for self-exposure under two laws: systemic and technical. Despite the fact that the entire legal profession in the Republic of Slovenia has warned that the intangible material of self-existence is to be saved in two laws. However, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not respect the legal profession. The result of non-compliance with the legal profession in this area is seen today when we have a systemic and technical law. When we need to meet twice for the same matter just because the legal and formal criteria are met twice with a referendum on the same issue on which citizens and citizens have already decided with a large majority, within 95% of those who attended the referendum. In spite of the legal opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia objected to the synergies or inclusion of matter from the framework of the Constitutional Court decision in the same law. And with this purpose, according to our assessment, it has caused what we have witnessed throughout last year, which we are witnessing today in 2004, and we will be most likely to witness in 2005. Regrettably, the government, as usual, did not take the profession into account; it followed exclusively policy and the pursuit of its governmental political objectives. In February 2004, i.e. in the second month of this year, a new decision was issued by the Constitutional Court, many of which were in between, largely, on every issue where it was acceptable, addressed the Constitutional Court, either in the form of an initiative or at least in the form of an application. But this decision of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, all ruling parties today, the Liberal Democracy, the United List, DeSUS, overlooked, clearly indicated this, or it clearly tells us that the system law, which at this time in or which could at this time be under consideration, is contrary to individual elements with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This made it clear that if this law was adopted, only this would be subject to an application or an assessment of constitutionality. So what's it gonna be? Nothing but a continuation of your plan. So again, for a few months, you will forgive the Slovenian citizen or citizen of Slovenia the expression, the harassment or the abuse of this violent story of self-exposure. Unfortunately, this is also due to the inviolability of the actions of the Liberal Democracy, DeSUS and the United Kingdom. If, according to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Group's assessment at certain times, some wisdom would prevail in the context of the thinking of these parties, then we would leave open the possibility that other matters could be changed in the third reading. Unfortunately, your ignorance has made it unacceptable or impossible for you to do so under the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. So, in fact, they can no longer correct at this point those mistakes that you deliberately missed in previous treatment. And from this title, the system law, if adopted and adopted, will, of course, be unconstitutional. And from this title, we will return to the beginning with a story erased under the system law. If that amount of wisdom was needed in this national council, or within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, this story could be completed by now. Of course, Slovenia would deserve that. Just as Slovenia deserved to be single, and as Slovenia today deserves to be independent. Despite the wishes and desire of the ruling parties. According to our assessment, it is, of course, necessary to tell this story and not ignore the actual referendum held in our country. 4.4.2004 So this year we had a referendum where we asked citizens and citizens whether you agree with the way in which the story of self-exposured people is resolved, as offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. 95% of those who came to the referendum clearly said that they did not agree to the referendum in this way, or in other words, they surrounded the word "against" in this way. And, of course, it would be logical to add one and two, i.e. the first decision of the Constitutional Court of February this year, which speaks in advance of, if there was a request or judgement to the Constitutional Court, on the compliance of the system law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this will happen, we told you earlier this week at an extraordinary meeting, and that if we were to add up two referendum issues and a referendum outcome, it would be most reasonable, but it would also require some wisdom if the National Assembly said that the System Law would not accept that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be obliged to prepare a new system law that would be in accordance with the referendum will, which would be in accordance with the wish of the Republic of Slovenia - but, of course, you would not be willing to do so. If we were willing to do so and to take citizens and citizens into account in their will, as a rule, at least within the framework of the National Party, it is so that we still believe that we have worked for people and not quite the other way around, I would advise you, of course. Unfortunately, it would take quite a bit of courage to do so, because, of course, we would admit your last year's error, or deliberately or unintentionally, so I do not believe in this wisdom, the wisdom of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, and that is why today we have only one last thing left to do, is to allow citizens and citizens, those who by qualified majority have submitted a letter or I think that they have even brought it into the National Assembly to continue with their work under the title of the Law of Referendum and of the People's Initiative. Indeed, this procedure will take some time, indeed, this process will cost this country something, but it will stand because you do not want to overlook it and do not want to take note of the referendum outcome of the bad two months ago - because it is not so far back that you do not remember what citizens and say citizens are. But no, your plan is to drag the story of self-exposure to the end of 2004 and probably even in 2005. You do not want to guarantee pride on the one hand to our country, and on the other hand you do not want to preserve the existing history unless you have already broken it in your past performances, aspirations and "compromise" in connection with self-exposure. In the National Party, of course, we note that it is you who are causing procedural complications, whether directly within the framework of Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List, the DeSUS or your services within the so-called various institutions coming inside the house, such as the legal and legislative service, or coming outside this house. The translation or conversion of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which changes its position within a few days, is very interesting. Last week they said it was the same initiative and therefore the opinion that was in force before is now in force. A little earlier in Mrs Bitenchev's speech, we have heard that this is a purely different initiative. Yeah, it would make sense if you're already hurting the country, at least do it in such a way that you can't see it immediately, roughly like you're doing in the area of corruption, affair, money laundering, customerism. But of course, that's another story we're going to talk about today. At the National Party today, we objected that this topic, i.e. the refusal of permission to collect signatures today, is contrary to Slovenian legislation, this is contrary to the referendum outcome and this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This was pointed out, for the first time, by citizens and citizens at the referendum, secondly, the Constitutional Court of February, the legal profession already in 2003 and most of all others who were more or less interested in this story. The National Party's parliamentary group estimates that all together within this House, the National Assembly, the legislative branches of power should find as much wisdom and end this story as quickly as possible. Not only do you throw a bad light within the country, that politicians themselves are unfaithful to their own history, that is, especially to that history that stems from the period of independence, but also from the outside. According to some information, the story of self-exposure has already reached some of Europe's borders, at my discretion, the United List of Social Democrats, who, in modern terms, have internationalised the problem, so that we can get from abroad a warning from a pension institution that is about as valuable as we are with us, and how we are beating the rights of similar or different people in Slovenia. But of course, me and the National Party would be much more pleased to get some warning about the unemployed in our country, but, as an interesting warning from nowhere. However, when you want to talk about this matter, the National Party or any opposition Member within that institution that you never use, i.e. under the first item of the agenda - initiatives and questions, and when you ask for an extended debate, at least on our country's debt of unemployment in our country, the next day, so, according to the rules of procedure, it is then a vote to march. This is our country's problem. Everyone would seem to want to be so damn friendly to other people, but not to the same ones, and let's beat them up, and let's take the job, let's put them through the door - is this the government policy of the Republic of Slovenia, or is that the policy of the ruling parties? Sorry, that's right. I am ashamed when I read in the paper, but the National Assembly has taken the matter so and so on, in other words, this and this nonsense, because the guilt falls collectively on all of us, but all of these decisions are solely a consequence of your policy. At the National Party, I said that we will never be prepared to vote against Slovenia's independence and against playing all the values that will still be important today in the framework of European integration, that is to be Slovenian and to be aware of that; I am sorry for all the others you think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I first protest that today, after the rulings of the government coalition, the National Assembly clearly violates the right to legal protection enjoyed by citizens and citizens in that country. There has not yet been an expiry of the referendum procedure concerning which a complaint has been lodged with the Constitutional Court, and the proceedings continue here. I think that this is just another mistake in a chain similar to that of government coalitions, the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS's National Assembly today for the fourth time, the subject of deleted or so-called deleted, self-exposed, while many of the more important things are practically ignored. Despite the fact that at least those who think about these things in the government coalition are absolutely clear that such an unfair law will not be forced through the procedure and through the decision of Slovenian citizens and citizens, regardless of this attempt, are constantly repeated, many times in a way that is not in accordance with the law or the rules of procedure, nor with the constitution and many times in a material way, they argue their reasons for rejecting certain solutions, which has happened all day long or since this meeting. I have a feeling that the representatives of government parties do not even know what is the subject of the referendum initiative, because what we have heard so far goes completely beyond that. In view of the fact that the agenda item has the title, given that you are proposing to reject an initiative that is completely concrete, I will read to you what it is. More than a thousand citizens and citizens have taken the initiative to ask voters and voters, then, of course, if 40,000 signatures are to be collected, whether the issue of the review of decisions and the procedure for the enforcement of damages, including the size of these damages, should be regulated as proposed in the law. The initiative concerns only the question of the revision of the decisions issued and the question of the limitation of compensations - only two specific questions - none of what we have previously heard from representatives of government parties who have not even read the initiatives, but who have already rejected it in advance. At the hearing of this item on the agenda at the meeting of the parent working body, the initiators received the floor and explained this initiative. The next day, practically Slovenian public could not hear or read anywhere, censorship was perfect. Therefore, allow me to make some of these arguments, as outlined by the initiators, to be presented in this context today, although the time spent by the Group of Members is very low. The instigators first pointed out that the initiative was signed by many Slovenian citizens and citizens, much more than is necessary for this legal minimum, and that, as they said, the names signed cannot be taken in any way than an initiative signed by only members of one nationality. The names Lukić, Čehić, Šabić, Lančarjevic, Žepić, Blažević, Sokolov, Stanko, Tanevski, etc. are also signatories and initiators. In short, it is an initiative of Slovenian citizens and citizens, regardless of nationality, which, of course, opposes the fact that the issue of so-called deleted persons in Slovenia is divided into those who have not been loyal to the country and now expect compensation, and those who have been loyal to it and are supposed to pay these damages. The signatories of the initiative, as explained at the meeting of the mother body, have also expressed their rejection, intolerance to the people who have conquered Slovenia or as its inhabitants, regardless of their nationality and any other personal circumstances, by doing so, proved that Slovenia is loyal and genuinely accepted as a country as a value. Today, when we discuss this problem, we have a situation that is extremely chaotic. We had a referendum two months ago because virtually all those who came to the referendum, which had an average participation in Slovenia's referendums, rejected the government's proposal for a re-issue of the decision-making law, although these decisions are being issued. And today, the Ministry of the Interior or Mr Rop and Bohinc issue these decisions without verification of the actual situation. According to a report from the Ministry of the Interior, decisions are also issued to those who have already died, issued to those who have never lived in Slovenia, issued to those who do not exist, or issued decisions to those who do not exist in non-existent streets. People who were the harshest opponents of Slovenian independence and opposed them with weapons in hand. And to people who have been living in Slovenia for years since 1991. What's going on is what we think is the cartoon of the rule of law. The public administration here is acting on the basis of a political order from the political government, contrary to the legal principles of economics and rationality. Although even in the light of the reasons given in the judgments of the Constitutional Court, it was said that the Court does not object to individual proceedings. Decisions shall be made without any serious individual treatment, otherwise they shall not be issued to persons who are not. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group also rejects the evidence that those who have tabled several referendum initiatives are delaying the procedure. Because the analysis of this event over the last year shows the following. Since the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly, or the government majority in six months, has done nothing. And even after she proposed some solutions, the government proposed two laws, got involved in the procedure, was not prepared for dialogue. And it was only four months ago that we first met with a referendum initiative. By then, it had been practically nine months since nothing had happened. Or when a government with complications, or improper suggestions, or strange suggestions, extended the situation itself. And now, when the government itself or the government coalition has come to a great deal of delays, they are expected to accept a legal solution on their nose that is not appropriate. As a result, it is unacceptable that those who caused the most delays now accuse the initiators of the referendum that something will not happen due to the proposed referendum initiative. Well, with regard to these delays, it should also be pointed out that the ruling coalition was never in a hurry when it came to other decisions of the Constitutional Court. That it violated the years and years of government, and the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, many decisions that actually addressed violations of the human rights of Slovenian families with multiple children. That the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the Municipality of Koper, which colleague Juri never mentions, is still in force when he advocates respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court, nor does his colleague Marsic and so on. It's still on. The actual situation is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, but the government does nothing to resolve it, except that, as in the case of deleted persons, it would place this point in an extraordinary session. So the Constitutional Court comes to the power coalition when it pursues its interests. Where a decision of the Constitutional Court does not follow their interests, they simply forget it or whistle or even work against it. Or even exceed it by adopting a constitutional change, as was the case with the electoral system. At the time it was possible, now the only way is to interpret a ruling by a constitutional court, as the government coalition imagines. We also point out that this legislative procedure on the so-called Systemic Law on deleted from the beginning is carried out with obvious infringements of the procedure, in particular the Rules of Procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never before submitted any specific assessment as to what the implementation of this law means, in particular the provisions on compensation for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We have a law before us that does not answer clearly the question of what the financial consequences will be, and on purpose. And this is the issue, or this lack of law, that is what the initiators call when they propose a referendum question. Settlement of damages. According to an assessment by the initiators, the referendum brings the most unknown. This provision, which is proposed, is disputed because it deviates significantly from the legal practice that has limited itself to absolute amounts in the rules of compensation. This practice was also true when it came to victims of interwar and postwar violence, for people who suffered greatly in camps or from totalitarian authority. There, the government has calmly, without much discussion, limited the compensation in absolute amounts and does not want to do so in the case of deleted persons. It was about Slovenian citizens who actually suffered a lot, not only because they were loyal citizens, but because their human rights were severely violated in the most grave way possible. But there, the government co-acquisition calmly limited compensation in absolute numbers. But when it comes to foreigners, when it comes to so-called eraseds, he doesn't want that. And that is what the referendum initiative refers to, and today you refuse to do so by violating the rules of procedure. If the law contained what it did not contain, it is said, the limits of compensation in absolute terms would be foreseeable. It could easily be calculated because, given that it is at least roughly operating with some numbers, although we have not yet heard the exact figures, which was also pointed out in one of the last performances by the President of the country, and, of course, on this basis, we could have some approximate indicative calculations of how much this will cost. Now, on the one hand, we have the assertion of government representatives that this will all have to be argued that it is not known that these are long-term procedures and so on. In short, we're listening to evasiveness. On the other hand, we have already made specific claims for compensation that go beyond 27, some even over 200 million tolars, and we have a statement by a legal representative who has been so-called deleted, Mr Krivica, who has also been a legal representative for some time or is still a United Letter, one of the government parties, it is said that a recognised expert is also from the government parties, who said the following in this space in a public presentation of opinions: it is clear that compensation will be large. It will not be possible to pay them only from one budget, so the so-called deleted or he said deleted, willing to negotiate that this is being paid from several budgets. This is what is reality on the other hand and simply does not recognize it and they do not want to limit the amount of compensation in the law. What is being proposed today is the decision of the home labour body not to sign the referendum initiative not to sign the deadline for collecting signatures is a violation of the rules of procedure; the proposal for a decision constitutes an abuse of power to the detriment of people and the state. Back then, there is a great deal of fear that people at the referendum would decide that the law should be amended accordingly. When it became clear that the calls for boycott at the referendum did not depend on half a million people, voters and voters in this country saying very clearly that the way to solve the problem of so-called deleted in Slovenia, as it was envisioned by the authorities, is now trying to prevent such a decision from happening, regardless of whether it violates the constitution, regulations or laws. That's what you do. Decisions that are non-selective or either too selective, do not allow for de facto separation from unjustifiable cases, some formulations are included in the law, which are deliberately written in such a way as to be easily cleared by the Constitutional Court, which is already in the foreground. And now it's pouring sand into people's eyes to see how we're going to do selection with these articles. On the other hand, great arrogance and unwillingness to limit compensation are in absolute amounts. While we have a power on the unilateral here that opposes the limitation of compensation in absolute amounts, on the other hand, the same authority is trying to introduce tuition when it comes to the payment of tuition in Slovenia. The law does not provide for financial implications, as it would be clear on this basis that the adoption of such a solution as proposed by the Government means the payment of high compensations, which would represent lower salaries, lower pensions, smaller and less scholarships and major problems for Slovenian public finances. This is also why this referendum initiative, which wants to address only two issues, the question of the review of the decisions to return and the question of limiting compensation in absolute amounts, is so controversial. At the end of the day, I would say that it is unreasonable to simply insist on such solutions, that a similar lack of compromise is also reflected elsewhere. As a result, constitutional changes are likely to deteriorate where a productive compromise, such as in the provinces or in the reorganisation of the judiciary, could be fully accepted. Unpreparedness to engage in any kind of dialogue has obviously led to the collapse of everything. When we proposed a constitutional law, with which the issue of the deleted is the only solution, and when we expected serious negotiations to take place, a decision took place in the backstage overnight, and Mr Bohinc began to issue decisions without a legal basis. On the one hand, what is done is a waste of time and on the other hand something that is not rational and reasonable, because those who force such a decision as is offered today in this decision of the parent working body know that such a law will not be possible. The only solution is in the form of a constitutional law. We, which we have proposed, do not insist that the text presented is the only possible and only possible compromise, but so far the only proposal and we are still ready to talk about it. If there is not enough sense before the elections, there is not enough willingness and enough soberness on the government side to make this happen, even a few months may wait. In any event, this decision will also, in this case, wait significantly less time for entry into force than a decision which has harmed Slovenian families with a large number of children for many years and which does not result in any extraordinary meeting of the government coalition. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Institute of the Referendum has a very important place in modern democracy, as it is open to the public without the intervention of political representatives to make individual decisions. And on 4 April this year, citizens and citizens with a strong participation, more than 30%, have taken a decision against the so-called technical law on deleted persons despite calling for boycott. Ninety-five percent of the participants decided against the law. Neither the Constitution nor the law prohibit a referendum on such a matter. And since the ruling coalition did not want to agree to this with the opposition, it did not want to take into account any of its proposals and arrogantly insisted on its positions, there was no other solution than to serve the referendum and to give the word to the people or to the electorate. The ruling political majority, however, still refuses to listen to the will of the electorate and to take it into account in their work. In any case, she wants to pass one of the two laws on so-called deleted, although she received a good lesson in the referendum. The opposition, however, is clear about the initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum on an unwarranted and deliberate basis to prevent the adoption of a law by which the national assembly must enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. The last initiative is correct, it contains a referendum issue that is concrete and quite different from the previous ones, as it concerns only the question of the review procedure of decisions and the procedure for the enforcement of damages. However, compensation is a question that concerns every citizen and citizen and has never been denied by the government as such. Democracy is the rule of majority and respect for the rights and diversity of minorities, so it is imperative to find mutual consensus and through constitutional law, as has been proposed many times, to resolve the situation. It is right that there are differences between the parties, but it is wrong that the parties cannot find a way through negotiations to reach compromise agreements. The theme deleted is a test that, in all the differences that separate us, there is also a common interest in preserving democratic boundaries of political competition. The decision proposed by the ruling majority in our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija will not be supported because we do not agree to a call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the so-called Systemic Law on Deleted, which is included in the initiative to electorate and electorate signatures in support of these requests, means, as you state, the abuse of the institute of referendum for non-constitutional purposes. The ruling majority decided that, therefore, the referendum issue would not be called for a legislative referendum and thus became an arbitrator of the Law so no longer applies, and we know this from totalitarian systems and from one of them, from communism, we Slovenians came out not long from this. New Slovenia supports both referendums, as we have assured citizens and citizens that we will use all available remedies and prevent the solutions that the ruling coalition wants to implement. We want compensation to be fixed in absolute amounts, for persons to be treated selectively, to limit their validity back and to correct any injustices that may have arisen. Such solutions that you offer are not good, so you would expect to take a step back, think back, and wait. It would be wisdom and courage to show that we are all worthy of independent Slovenia together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the working body has already given us a sense that we can expect ladies and gentlemen from the opposition to tell or repeat a bunch of facts about the contents and consequences of the deleted law today. For so far, we have repeatedly repeated the same things, trying to prove that these claims are not accurate, and nothing helps. A thousand times is a repeated lie, a thousand for the first time trying to tell the truth, and it doesn't help. Look, I'm talking about self-exposures that have been erased by official authorities without being notified. Isn't that cynicism, first-class cynicism? I am talking about a constitutional law that we cannot implement the Constitutional Court's decision and at the same time call for us to be a state of law. I am talking about citizenship, and we all know that it is a matter of permanent residence. We argue that the decision regarding the infringements has nothing to do with self-reliance. We have adopted citizens and citizens, then residents and residents of Slovenia, with a majority joint action. Those who are now among those who have been wiped out may also have been present here. And to associate this with some ten former JLA officers, who have not yet been proven any concrete guilt, is also an act rejected. To talk about compensation when we say that compensation under the law is limited and that perhaps a specific determination of the amount of compensation would mean a greater burden than the current scope of the law. And so on and so forth. I mean, everything has been said, everything has been demented, because of the content of the law in my opinion, it really doesn't make sense to talk because we won't convince each other. However, I think it is time for the confusion about deleted ones to show up and tell us in another way that any misinterpretation about clearly naming the problem harms us. Not only deleted, I think, political parties, including the National Assembly, Slovenia as a legal country and its reputation at home and in Europe. At least people are asking me whether this national assembly and this country is still operating according to certain principles and rules, or whether it is all just one single uncompromising battle for electoral votes, for its own political interests and authority, one deceiving of people, voters and voters, one single desire to please the majority and that we therefore need to re-emerg on an extraordinary session and a constant theme on the agenda. They simply cannot believe that there are no more rules under which the National Assembly should act. And they fear that this will not only be a practice for deleted but also for many other issues on which the coalition and the opposition could not agree. So that whenever the content of a law did not appeal to the opposition, it would try to prevent the functioning of the national assembly by all means. For the opposition, however, only the content she agrees with is true. There is probably no one who would doubt that, with regard to the deleted status law, the opposition does not allow the state assembly to vote on the law, but at the same time accuses us of wanting to make a decision on the law, because that is the function of the national assembly. How else can it be assessed that the opposition has already requested a referendum on the same law for the fourth time with similar issues. There are only so many different questions that it can refer to differences, but in fact it is the same content and the desire to prevent the national assembly from deciding on the same consequences. I know the content of each of these referendums well, and only publicly can it be said that there are no significant differences or that the differences are so essential that they do not concern the same issue. Anyone who has little follow-up to politics knows that the opposition has announced, said, and that it will do everything that this national assembly will not be able to decide and perform its functions. Finally, people do not understand that it is possible in a democratic parliamentary system that a national assembly should not decide how a minority can permanently prevent the work of the national assembly. That's why they're surprised you can't handle it. And because they logically cannot understand it, they rightly admit that we do so because we all have such perverse conduct when we plead against each other and accuse each other, they are politically responsible because they want to hide behind ambiguity in the law, but we do not really hope to enforce procedures that the law knows about such a situation. I would therefore like to make it clear, in the given circumstances, that the constant new requirements for the previous legislative referendum are the abuse of the law and the abuse of the right to referendum. This was determined by the Constitutional Court independently of the deleted. The constantly new requests for a referendum prevent the implementation of Constitutional Court decisions on the rights of deleted persons, prevent the exercise of human rights and the exercise of the legislative function of the National Assembly. The resolution of such abuses is indeed not provided for in the law on referendum and human initiative, but this is not necessary. It may be envisaged and enforced by applying the general rules on the prohibition of the abuse of rights and the sanctioning of such behaviour as the law knows. Thus, the National Assembly may have or may have the means to prevent the permanent repetition of the referendums, with the aim of preventing the adoption of the law. Therefore, the main problem is not the lack of solutions, but the main problem is the lack of political will to put these solutions into effect. That's the state of things. That's not good. However, it could become systemicly harmful if it became a practice. If the logic and practical behaviour of the opposition were to be accepted, that it could use all means against anything that does not correspond to it in substance to establish its interests, as it does now, even claiming that the majority in the National Assembly is making it impossible for it to operate. And if the National Assembly, because of such views of the opposition, were to please it, would use its specific procedures arbitrarily if it believed that it would be honored in public, it would use one if the public thought otherwise, would not decide and enforce other procedures. This would no longer be a democracy and a rule of law. As an argument not to decide on the law, the result of a referendum on technical law is often used. Indeed, the vast majority, but of one third of the voters who attended the referendum, and this was an average, not an average, participation, was against the law. But does this mean that whenever the questionable attitude of the majority towards the rights of minorities is questioned, we will agree that minorities do not go to justice? Do we know what that means? Are we aware that each of us can very soon be found in a group that asks a minority question? Do we remember who has so far advocated the rights of minorities, the rights of nationalities, the rights of victims of war violence, the rights of residents in denationalized homes? Who opposed the requirements for the abolition of the rights of fighters and disabled persons, who warned us that we must be reasonable in determining the requirements for reducing the rights of the unemployed? Who advocated minorities when it came to artificial fertilisation with biomedical aid, for same-sex citizens and citizens? And it could still be listed. Opponents of rights deleted have rarely been advocates of these minorities. So what country would we have compared to Europe if the logic advocated by the opposition prevailed? I think those are the real questions. We will therefore support the proposed decision in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. It is no longer just about human rights and the rights of those who have been erased. With every new referendum initiative and a vague response, there is much more and more to it. It is about what Slovenia will become. Slovenia, as a democratic, solidarity, legal and social state, is becoming increasingly involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. My word to Mr. Brace, please. Procedural proposal, Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u29	More of a question, Madam Vice President. I also share the view that this meeting is entirely unnecessary because the President of the National Assembly may decide on this item, but the agenda is adopted and I regret that this item and the next item are not led by the President of the Assembly itself. That would be very good, because he's the one who, in my opinion, led to us talking about these things, but we shouldn't have. What bothers me at this point, and I ask whether it is possible to arrange, is that there is no other one responsible for the cradle in relation to the questions about the deleted, that is, Minister Bohinc. I'd love to see him here because I could explain a lot. But I'm asking if that's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u30	Thank you very much. As you know, respectable Mr Školč, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall authorize representatives and government representatives to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly. I've only replaced Mr President for a short time. As you can see, he will take over the session and be satisfied. My word to Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. As so many words have already been said today as the opposition deceives the public, how it continues to invent new and new obstacles to prevent decision-making on this law and so on, one cannot really resist once more and ten more times, if necessary, warning that only two things are very clearly discussed in the referendum issue: the question of the review process of decisions and, secondly, the procedure for the enforcement of compensations, including the size of these damages. So we are not talking about the law as a whole, but we are asking the public about these two things. Not me, but it's a thousand people who think it's necessary to judge the whole matter in accordance with the referendum law and the human initiative. And if a thousand people ask such a question or rather, two demands within their question, i.e. after revision and after compensation, it is too much for you and it is contrary to human rights and what you can say. And you mislead the public by how the opposition makes the work of the National Assembly impossible. The opposition has used legitimate and legal means, but people have also collected thousands of signatures in accordance with the referendum law and the people's initiative and filed them. But I can't stand being so arrogant. What Mrs Krebs and Mr Potrč said today, listen, if the word of the opposition were replaced with an internal enemy, this would actually be quite appropriate for the previous period! What you're doing with us is impossible! And what labels you put on us! And in doing so, you insult all those people, so many times a thousand now who have collected signatures. Yeah, but these people are for you, I don't know, someone off the street, or what? You've never cared much about people, but you've never cared so much about them, but it's too big. So I repeat, we want to check whether or not we want to review the decision procedure, because of the chaos created by Minister Bohinc and the Slovenian Government in connection with the Constitutional Court decision concerning the 8th point on the so-called deleted and then the system law. I would not now repeat everything that this is a unique case when one constitutional decision is regulated in two laws. But when the system law fell at the referendum, it's nothing to you at all, that's irrelevant. You guys keep working like nothing ever happened. When we warn you that revision of procedures would be necessary in view of what is happening today. Nothing. If we go to the second part of our question, this is the right procedure for the enforcement of damages. You like to write down specific amounts, so many thousand tolars, in laws. And why don't we do it now, why don't we, because we can predict exactly what the upper limit is. Since you have not done so, the law also has one essential formal flaw, without which you and the professional services should not be in the process at all if you, Mr President, are consistent. But it doesn't matter. What's important is the fact that you've made up your mind to take that and the point. If this is contrary to the rules of procedure or the will of the people, the referendum, it does not matter at all. You are here saving purely partial political interests and you care little about Slovenians and Slovenians, who will have to pay for such policies in the future if these compensations occur, etc., and also money for this purpose. We just want to point out that this is not the case with public funds and that it is necessary to check each case on a case-by-case basis. What we say all the time, not all the time, every case. And if in individual cases a state error is found that someone is actually injured by the error of the State authority, the State must provide him with compensation of up to so much and so much money, etc. You don't want to write this down, even though we're always talking to each other, but at the same time here you're sending us the brains and telling the public how you've accepted the wonders of our proposals. But you don't want and you don't want what's important. Why not? I don't know. But the fact is that such a law harms the interests of the Slovenian people. And that's an undeniable fact. You say what you want, we, the opposition, as previously said, will do everything to prevent etc., the opposition will use all legitimate and legal means to alert the Slovenian public to the unacceptable, irresponsible behaviour of the Slovenian government, especially the Liberal Democrats, the United List and DeSUS, when it comes to issues of other minorities, such as veterans of war for Slovenia, such as their own, as they are wounded in war for Slovenia, who do not have the right to be wounded, because they have the status of accident at work or something like that. And we allow this to continue and continue not to talk about the uneven position of veterans. And we could list it. We've talked about it a lot. In short, I think what has been said many times today is a repetition of the untruths. True, you repeat the facts and thus deceive the Slovenian public. But I hope the Slovenian public is finally aware of what this is all about. It is not another referendum, which, I do not know, will cause costs and obstacles to the National Assembly; it is an initiative in which we want only because of the confusion you have created, once again, to raise the issue of the decision review process and compensation in order to know how much compensation is due to whom in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Bajuk, let me assure Members and Members that most of the meeting will be chaired by me. However, as the meeting takes 16 hours, of course, one of the vice-presidents or vice-presidents will be so kind as to replace me for a moment. Dr. Bayuk's friend is missing. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Much has been said about the problem that has been erased, and it seems that we simply do not know how to read some things. On the basis of the initiative for voters and voters to collect signatures, it is possible to read that the opposition to the tolerant dialogue among all political groups wishes. Well, if such a patient dialogue were to be, then it is likely that such problems as we are facing would not be repeated, and we should again and again explain why it is actually going on. Let me state that I can read the initiative accurately. This initiative states that it is a matter of a review of decisions, of a procedure for the enforcement of damages and of the amount of compensation. That's three questions we'd like to ask. Of course, it is probably one question that the applicants consider to be a single issue because it is concluded that this is regulated as proposed in the law. And here lies the truth of the problem. In fact, they are opposed to the law we are discussing, and then it is really possible, with only one answer, to overturn everything they ask. What I would like to draw further attention to, however, is that I find it difficult to accept such justification where the merits of the referendum are explained, sometimes we have heard, with the people's plebiscite decision at the referendum on technical law. And what was this plebiscite decision about looking at it in numbers? Out of the million 625 thousand 805 eligible voters and voters, 511 thousand 284 registered in the electoral directory attended the referendum. That's 31.45% voter turnout. It is difficult to say that it is plebiscite, although almost 95% of it is actually against the technical law. And on the other hand, it would be difficult to say that everything is accurately understood and accurately explained because I cannot shake my feelings, but I could also prove by carefully reading the text that it is still a matter of mixing the technical and so-called system law, that it is a matter of mixing citizenship and permanent residence, so we have not moved even a millimeter away from what was actually possible to learn right now, and this is that the opposition does not want to resolve the problem of the deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u34	Comrade Podobnik has the following word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to take another call at the agenda item, which represents the fourth attempt to call the previous legislative referendum, the fourth attempt. I personally believe that only the fact that we have a fourth initiative on the table in the National Assembly today speaks of the fact that, obviously, we have not managed to find a way to resolve this issue as comprehensively as possible in the context of the procedure as we know it. Since April 4th, when the referendum on the so-called technical law was held, I personally have not observed any attempt at dialogue by the government, the Prime Minister, the President of the National Assembly. There was no invitation, let's come together, let's sit down, assess what the outcome of the referendum means to us and how we will resolve this complex issue. We have before us a system law on which the call for a preliminary legislative referendum is launched for the fourth time. If we go to look at this issue, which is now in writing, then I personally take the risk, but I claim that it is fully in line with the law on referendum and human initiative and with all the decisions of the Constitutional Court so far in this matter. Everything the Constitutional Court has written has taken this referendum issue into account. It touches only two articles of the law, 19.c and 19.a. of articles of the law. 19.c Article speaks of compensation for damages, and at the same time the issue also speaks of the procedure for the enforcement of compensations and the extent of such compensations. Too bad it's not possible to simply show what the content of the marriage solution is. But the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that this article of the law is incomplete, because it does not speak of the upper limit of this compensation. The practice of applying such compensations has always been that, in the context of the material possibilities of the State and society in some consensus, such compensation has been reasonably limited upstream. The law on compensation for victims of postwar, interwar violence has already been mentioned here. And remember, colleagues and colleagues, the law has very low absolute amounts. But the law that's ahead of us doesn't have any sums. And this is a classic referendum question for the previous legislative referendum. And one more thing I would like to say is what I read in this justification, which says, "The National Assembly justifies its justification for violating the principle of the inadmissibility of the abuse of rights." The essential elements of legal culture also include the principle that the right must be exercised in accordance with the purpose for which it was established. I agree. I couldn't agree more. However, colleagues and colleagues, an essential element of legal culture, is also the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality. If the National Assembly has adopted laws restricting compensation to victims of post-war, interwar violence in very low absolute amounts, then we have violated some fundamental principle of legal culture, but if we have not written in this law. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Dear colleague Jakič, the problem is that it can no longer be complemented. If we go with a mandatory explanation or a harmonisation amendment, we'll be in breach of procedure. I read the transcript of the debate on the working body. One of our colleagues found that since February it has been known that this law is unconstitutional in certain solutions. So in this place, what would be the only logical thing? In order to find ways of communication and agree on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, on the basis of the referendum we have, we simply reject the current system law otherwise together, in our opinion, it would be best in the form of a constitutional law such a solution, which will be maintained and fair and will also be in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. There's something else I'd like to mention. In your reasonings, I have observed a doctrine that seems to me not to be part of such a text. In three places, there is mention of membership in political parties. I argue that it is not in the constitution, not in the referendum law and in the human initiative of any ground, that it is written that the first-signed initiative is a constitutional opinion of a member but an active member of a political party. This cannot be any element of disqualification. We're a parliamentary democracy. Membership in political parties is the free decision of every citizen and citizen. Therefore, in my view, this cannot be an argument that you simply claim and repeatedly mention this fact. A representative of the initiators is an active member of the political party, which is estimated to be an active member of a sub-minister. On what grounds? That doesn't fit in that text. It is a precedent that someone simply takes a decision in his own hands and that membership in a party becomes a disqualification. I don't accept this way because it's unfair and insulting. Then in this text is the following sentence, and I am interested in what it means: "Therefore, the National Assembly considers that in any case an initiative with similar content must, immediately after the rejection of the referendum, also make a final decision on the law, otherwise it will be itself responsible for the continuation of the anti-constitutional situation." Does this mean that, after today’s decision, if the majority so decides, there will be no possibility of legal protection for those who have signed the initiative? The item is written as such, i.e. as soon as the referendum invitation to tender has been rejected. If we are very consistent, such a dictatorship is also contrary to what the Constitutional Court wrote in paragraph 17 of one of the previous constitutional judgments, when it said that the decision of the President of the National Assembly or the decision of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is admissible to submit an application for a test of the decision of the National Assembly in order not to call for a referendum. I hope that this has been miswritten or that this interpretation, immediately following the rejection of the invitation to act on the law, is not true. I'd like to touch today's procedure. The fact that we have decided today and have taken a decision on this initiative before the process of the previous initiative to call for a previous legislative referendum is, in my opinion, a mistake, a mistake. Why? In some ways, we are prejudging the decision of the Constitutional Court. We assume that the Constitutional Court, if the previous first signed or first signed complaint, will decide negatively, and we will continue on this path with a new initiative. Take a look at what would happen to us if today most of us rejected the invitation to a previous legislative referendum, then the initiator complained, and in the meantime the Constitutional Court decided to resolve the previous initiative positively. We'll find ourselves in a legally unsustainable state. And in our opinion today, unfortunately, due to the procedure itself, we should wait. Let me get this straight. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, this time the candidates raised a referendum question, which is absolutely clear, which stems from the current decisions of the Constitutional Court and opinions; it touches only two articles in the law that is before the third reading, and only asks voters and voters whether you are in favour of the compensation being paid in accordance with the law or not. At the same time, revision of the procedure. And this is the classic purpose of the previous legislative referendum. As a national assembly, if we were to be consistent, we should not find reasons to reject their initiative today, and I hope we will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenko. He's not here. Comrade Petty Officer. He's not here. My friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u37	Thank you, President. Why the proposal for a decision of the Committee is being adopted and, of course, I will support it. Because after so many months of unproductive confrontation of arguments between advocates and opponents of the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision - let us also repeat to the public watching us - the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision; we are still on the ground and it is time to take at least a small step forward. That's what the board's offering. Just like he offered it last time. I do not even see conflicts in the procedure itself during the then rejected initiative, which, of course, has all the legal channels of its own protection, and if the Constitutional Court decides that that initiative to call for a referendum is justified, we will continue the procedure from that moment forward. When I read this new initiative for the referendum, the diction of the proposaler himself came out, very concerned that we are leading to internationalisation of the problem itself with this problem. Here I would like to remind him, and we all know that from the moment he began to be dealt with by the European Ombudsman, the problem has already been internationalised and we are not honoured. It is therefore necessary and urgent that we take a step forward and show the way to its resolution. However, the solution will be when the law is passed. The law will make it possible to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. We would not now go back to all the story we know, we have never seen it before, and it shows the responsibility of those who have cooked it. But the responsible ones to solve this problem are all of us. Those who oppose him and seek all legal ways to prevent the problem from being solved and stalled to disability, and, of course, by manipulating facts and also by bridging some hatred among people on the basis of the criteria of loyalty, which are your criteria, make it impossible to conclude. And we are responsible, who have not yet found the right answers, and we have stepped in place more or less. I think it's time we took this step. I would go even further, and when all the terms of legal protection are passed, and we also approach the adoption of the law, then you have all the rights and opportunities to challenge such a law in a constitutional court. But we must, of course, take a step forward, or we will only show once again our incompetence and our inability to resolve this problem, which has been going on for so many years and which we have all covered in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler's not here, my friend Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u40	Behind you, Comrade Kelemina. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u41	Is it me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u43	[[...]] [[not included.]] Sorry, you gave it to them, and it would be very interesting to know why. [[...]] But we have just heard a talk from the former congregation about what was going to happen, what I am happy to hear, and, among other things, a series of Lithuanians who were drawn against us and attributed all kinds of lies to us, and I don’t know what else. Some of you must have felt very well at the time that you were politically active, that was your natural habitat and now you are repeating it. And more and more as this term goes on and on, that's what happens. Well, we're not gonna talk about it, because we all hear it and we all see it. I can say that our position has been highlighted many times and I will not repeat it quite enough, I will only say that we are for the correction of injustices. We need to figure out who was wrongly erased somehow. These should be given the opportunity to make amends, as well as appropriate compensation. While we respect the position or decision of the Constitutional Court, this decision is such that it allows the National Assembly many ways to resolve this problem. However, after all the complications, there is no other option than to prepare a referendum and finally move on. I'd like to mention a little more history. At the time of your government, it's called success stories, you all knew well or you should know about these eraseds. Why didn't you do anything? Why did you wait? You've been waiting for a pleasant moment. This moment is our entry into the European Union, our double elections and so on. That's why you use it in public and you attribute it to us against strangers, others and so on. You've done very well, and even if you think you've disgraced us, you've disgraced the country, and that's outrageous. I'll be done soon. I'd like to say this. That those who had been erased must have suffered among them. Let me remind you of that. If these are crocodiles, let me remind you of something. Where crocodiles cry for 10,000 people who were killed by your predecessors after the war, are still buried there, in 299 graves, the number is still growing. Where are your tears for the Roma here? I've never heard any of you stand up for this, and they're ours as well as deleted if you want. Where are the tears for all the relatives of the slain? They never found out and today they don't know where they were buried. Where are your tears? They're nowhere to be found. I wish you a lot of success in all this, but it seems to me that if you were smart enough to take over, you could just solve this thing and make a deal. You're saying we can never make a deal. Of course not, for you are bringing non - pluralism from the old congregation and we have never been able to make any marriage through if you have not given it with your help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u44	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your word. Respectable. Of course, this important issue could have been resolved a long time ago, we have said this no more than once if there were not enough willingness on the other hand, it is said, by the Members of the government majority, that this issue would be properly resolved. All that you are saying today and trying to turn the facts, the real facts to the other side, and even accusing someone else of saying false things, etc., is actually whoever is listening to it can see what lies you are spreading yourself. But it is the ultimate and only goal of all that someone has to pay for all this nonsense. And I'm telling you myself, I don't mind you breaking whatever you want if you pay for your stupidity yourself. Tell me how much you're going to put out of your pockets to pay for this billions of nonsense. We could very discreetly resolve these things constitutionally and legally for the benefit of Slovenia and all foreign victims. Look what happens in the end. Finally, what is going to happen is that, because of our poor judicial system, I suppose, capable lawyers, very capable lawyers will come up with large deposits, large claims by the injured, the seemingly undeserving, do not deserve these rights, large claims, and these claims will also be paid up to over millions and more. Applications have already been made, including over 200, 300 million high claims. It will also happen that those who are not entitled - these are, in particular, some of the personalities from the military services who fought against Slovenia - will require a high pension from 1990 to today and beyond. And something like that has already been predicted or announced by the Constitutional Court. Can you imagine? Our citizens who work after 40 years under difficult conditions in the industry are burned, exhausted to the spot, not even after 100,000 get a pension, but someone will receive 200, 300,000 high pensions ten years ago and will continue to have security guaranteed! Well, that's unacceptable! If you're willing to pay for this nonsense, pay for it. I firmly believe that you do not have a mandate to win elections on behalf of the people. Whether this was legal, it was certainly legal, and the question is, of course, if it is legitimate, we could talk about it in other ways, because they were not equal terms for who could win and who could not. But no matter what, I don't think anyone has given you this right to decide on behalf of the people on such high damages that someone can gain by doing so. And to the citizens who will have to pay for it, it is not fair and unjust. I will therefore, by all means - you admit, all of you have acknowledged that we are coming out of law, all of our claims are coming out, you acknowledge once again that we are using all the legal means to achieve our interests, so we are working within the framework of existing legislation. But you want to undermine all rights by voting, and you know exactly that you are working against the constitution and working against the law. But that's what you do. On purpose. Because you want to protect some personal interests. Of course, we know for ourselves that the pressure from outside is that the archives in Belgrade are still full. In Slovenia we had about 1,300 meters of archives, 2.5 meters high; you cleaned them, and today we have only 300 meters of archives, and you are still cleaning them, asking the question where this is all going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u46	Now he has the word, Comrade Kontic. Only colleague Kontic has the floor. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'll wait a minute. The law excludes the possibilities that my colleague mentioned before me. Those who have acted militarily against Slovenia during the war of independence have ruled out or have no right under this law. But you probably have to take the law into your hands and read it or at least fly it over. However, let me say again that we are not deciding on a system law today, but on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum. Instigators, or a representative of the initiators, at a meeting of the parent working body, found that the drafters of the conclusions that we are discussing today recognize or acknowledge by their own conduct that the issue is clear; that is, of course, its conclusion. For me, however, their purpose is clear above all. And the purpose is to stall, if not to completely prevent the decision-making of the law at third reading. And I must admit, they're very successful at this. Procrastination can be seen from their opposition requirements, namely that the issue can be resolved constructively by constitutional law in a text that is acceptable to them. However, if this is not acceptable for the coalition, the text of this constitutional law, then it is better to leave the next composition of the national assembly. I agree with the warning that the initiative is also controversial because one question contains three substantively separate questions and the referendum would only be answered in a package. This, of course, forces the participants of the referendum to decide in a way that, even if they disagree in the rest of the work, they attach the issue and, of course, the other way around. I will vote in favour of the proposed decision, which is an integral part of the report of the parent working body, also because of the warnings of the legislative and legal service, which points out that the initiative put forward means the postponement of the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u48	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this topic, which is always, of course, the ruling coalition of creation and you take it to extraordinary meetings, somehow creating an opinion in this country, is how tolerant and plural you are. You are interested in a subject or an area that could have been resolved long ago if you had adopted the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party in the first reading or if you had agreed to a constitutional amendment. Of course, you didn't want to do all this, but today we are always talking about this topic. You are in favour of the deleted, but you do care little about many Slovenes who have worked hard to support it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This country, and today they are fighting for the bare survival. That's all I'm saying, Mr President, I'm going to finish right now. Problematise more than 31% participation in the referendum, where almost most of the participants were against the mildly infertile [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u50	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u51	But if it's someone who's a candidate for the European elections, then we can ask ourselves how he's going to interpret it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u52	Time's up, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u53	, if possible, participation in elections for the European Parliament will be the same. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u54	Thank you very much. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u55	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Bernick. I've never told you before - and I don't think - to document your past and not hide it. I'll be grateful if you don't read mine to me because I'm not hiding it either. Everybody knows her. I have been elected four times in direct democratic elections. And in this sense, I think we are equal. And if you think you're a Democrat, you should respect that. Second. It would be good to finally say who blamed the situation that we are now facing for 12 years - February 1992, the Demos government. I'm not saying that they don't have responsibility for later governments that haven't solved it, but that's where the problem is. And if we are now talking about having it, that we need to solve it more or less in a consensual way, that there will be huge costs for the country and so on, then let us go into this original sin and say that it is there. I do not think it is correct to link the issue of solving this issue in any way with a number of other issues in Slovenia that are current, but it is impossible to say that the other one must be resolved, but not; nor vice versa. I think that this National Assembly is responsible for solving everything: the question of employment, the question of the unemployed, the issue of regional differences, the issue of better regulation, justice and the like, but also this issue. And that's your emphasis on everything else, and that's not it, it's just not right. We need to come to the rescue of all issues. With regard to the initiatives that have been taken. Mr. Podobnik, membership in the party is irrelevant. The nationality of the initiators is also irrelevant, and today, or today, it is very, very much – I apologize – that you have made such a big difference. Every citizen has the right to initiative. It can also be done three times, it can be done five times, but it is likely that it has the right, Mr Podobnik, to assess what this means. If instead of fundamentally questioning the issue of the law once, twice, but doing it in pieces, every time there is something, then there is probably also a question whether it is an abuse of the right of the referendum or not; and I am asking this question, my Group of Members is asking. Sooner or later, the Constitutional Court will have to say something about him definitively. However, we both know that because you know the parliamentary procedure, you only want to emphasise one part of this problem, but not the other, that as things are being arranged today, there is a possibility of blocking the work of the National Assembly. If we followed your logic, then this means that there can always be a referendum on one article of the law and this referendum will always be renewed before the National Assembly can decide on the law. I say that such a procedure is not correct and that there must be medicines against such a procedure and see them in the fact that, at some stage, we can assess and say: this is the abuse of the Institute of Referendum, whether they are equal signatories or different, whether they are first-signed from the same party or not; although, when they are from the same party, the likelihood is greater because we know that the difference between the initiator and those who sign, and that we will resolve this issue sooner or later. And in this sense, we also need to understand the part of the text that encourages the Constitutional Court to say something about this issue. Finally, please let us stop talking about who will be to whom and who will harm citizens and citizens, whether they pay or not. Together, Mr Podobnik, at least then with the Slovenian People's Party in the Coalition, we agreed on such solutions to the compensation issue precisely to say that compensation cannot be unlimited, that it is necessary to take into account the fact that compensations have their outdated hands and few questions still apply to the extent that the amount would not be unlimited and that the burden of the State would not be limited. To talk about whether or not compensation is possible is likely to be necessary when we consider only the constitutional situation. And to compare things where the injustices of the former authorities are being corrected, with the injustices caused by this country and this authority, politically can be similar, and formally not because you regulate one with a new law, but in this case a new law is not necessary, but you already have an existing constitution and laws that you have violated and because you have violated them, you as a country are the result. I would say that I would really like to say to myself that there are differences between how we understand the law, and I know that the differences in how we want to solve the problems are, and these differences are; but that we allow ourselves to approach this problem, but not that we want to make it impossible for the national assembly to perform this function, one or the next, at some stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u56	It's a replica, Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u57	Thank you for the replica, Mr. President. My colleague Potrč also mentioned my views in his debate, and I would like to explain because I think that he may have misunderstood me in some cases, but it is true that we have different views on some issues. I think this is crucial: in my opinion, the current referendum issue touches two articles of the law and asks voters whether you are in favour of resolving the issue of damages and the review procedure as proposed in the law. And this is a classic referendum question for the previous legislative referendum. And now there's a substantive interpretation. In my view, from the point of view of legal culture, it would be absolutely necessary for us to act in a similar manner today if we were to limit the amount of compensation to victims of post-war and inter-war violence. Let's say we accept the interpretation, but I do not accept it, Comrade Potrč, that the administrative authorities of the Republic of Slovenia have knowingly violated the law in 1992 and 1993, I do not accept it. But the Constitutional Court, by its radical decision, has gone this way and has caused us a problem that we have been in for several years now. But, colleagues and colleagues, do you not think that the victims of marriages after the war were significantly greater and human rights violations were significantly greater, is not a normal state in this country, which would say that I cannot balance these two auctions and there is no counterargument here. If we have limited compensation to victims of postwar violence, we should also do so in this law. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, we can no longer, with the amendments, and it would be the only right way to reject the law in force and then jointly write the third, if possible, constitutional law. And just a replica of active participation in political parties. Comrade Potts, I believe that this is how the presence of political parties in an official document of the National Assembly is new. We've never written that before! The active or passive membership of a political party is simply a fact that does not belong to the argumentation or to the discreditation or to some kind of visibility of someone. I am not saying that this emphasis on political party membership was merely a discreditation, but unfortunately, in Slovenia and society people are still a little afraid sometimes, and suddenly it will not be normal and free to be a member of a political party, so I would point out that such a reference to such a document does not belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u58	My friend Brenčič, would you like some? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u59	Mr Podobnik, I will not argue that the argument with political parties is useful, good, necessary or not, to point out, as far as I am concerned, that it is a group of parties who want to resolve this way, and for the group to each other - and this is objective, without any offense. It bothers me and I ask you - why you don't think it is so controversial to stress national ownership so much, but why is it that in the case of the signatories, if not for those signatories, you are not among them, you want to say that this is the case, I would say, part of the people of one nationality who are equal against other people because they want to be citizens, and, I would say, the real members of this new country and others want to remain foreigners with the right to remain foreigners as well. And that's what you're probleming! And you've been probleming this all along, and since we've been talking in this law, we know that this is one of the basic issues. Now, about the damages. I am in favour of discussing compensations, just let us discuss any element of this compensation for possible compensation that would go through the constitution and the law in the case of deleted, and Mr Podobnik, for those compensations that have already been paid under different laws, including for all the injustices that were after II. World War II done. Because there were different bases and very different compensations were paid. We know well. They were different in terms of denationalisation and property, different in terms of prisons and recognition, I would say, pension periods and so on. In short, you have to admit these things objectively, not put them all in one basket.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u60	Now he has the floor, if that's what he wants, to be with his colleague Janš for a short time. He's quitting. Does he want a representative of the government? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u61	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Also according to the position of the Ministry of the Interior, the initiative, as has been tabled today, goes beyond the criteria set out in the second paragraph or paragraph of Article 18 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. This provides that the preliminary legislative referendum may refer to the question of whether the proposed law should address a specific issue, as proposed. Nor does the text of the law address issues, such as the revision referred to in the initiative. It's just not in the marriage. In Article 19a and Article 19b, the law speaks in the section on exceptional remedies for the renewal of the procedure and on the revocation of the authorisation, not on the revision. In particular, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry of the Interior, we believe that, in some way, the initiative for the preliminary legislative referendum is to avoid its adoption before the beginning of the third stage of the examination of the law. A large number of evaluations in explaining this initiative are simply not accurate. It is stated that the Ministry is to declare that it has been issuing decisions in a non-selective manner for several months, which is not true. They state that the decisions are coming back because the addressee is not available and refer to the official declarations made by the Ministry of the Interior, which, of course, is also not correct and I will argue later. It is stated that a tenth of the decisions have returned because there is no trace of any building or street on the title. All of this is simply not true, nor is it true that the Ministry issues decisions in a non-selective manner. For the selective issue of decisions, we have the basis in the Constitutional Court's decision, in particular point 19, which states that the authorisation granted does not establish a new legal relationship, as it only identifies the legal situation that has already existed. In order to comply with the guidelines, the Ministry of the Interior also has the basis in point 3 of that Decision for which all the reasons for the decisions are binding. Well, as regards the previous allegation that the Ministry has sent dozens of decisions to addresses that are not addressed to houses that are broken, the following explained or the following figures to people who are not included in the addresses. Since 3,327 decisions were sent for service, the Ministry of the Interior has received returns because the street is no longer, exactly 3; because the building where the person had his registered residence no longer stands, exactly 4; the returned decisions because the addressees are not on the addresses where they were registered were exactly 29, meaning an extremely small number which does not justify the generalisation of this type or even the argument of the referendum initiative. In particular, it is appropriate to clarify that the decisions in these cases did not have any legal effect; the decision shall enter into force at the time of service. These few dozen decisions, which were not served, therefore did not have any legal effect. In all of these cases, procedures for determining the actual permanent residence will also be initiated, in progress, following the law on registration and registration of residence), as well as procedures concerning the grounds for the possible termination of the residence permit provided for by the law on aliens. This was a few figures in explanation and information that the numbers listed here do not match the actual situation. Otherwise, these figures on decisions issued and delivered decisions are no secret, and if anyone is interested in these matters, they can be obtained by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u62	With the intervention of the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Interior, I am now concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision, so we can move on to a decision on it. This is a decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Voice explanation, Comrade Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Your Honors are here! Given that the position of the Minister of the Interior has not surprised us, but far from convincing us, given that the issue of self-exposure is completely different, given that the Minister has already deceived us several times, in particular with regard to the need for a variety of laws and similar things, and in particular that Slovenian citizens and citizens have already decided, especially on the basis that we have long ago found that we cannot resolve the issues of self-exposure in the framework of the National Assembly, it seems to us in the National Party that it is only reasonable to leave the referendum with our marriage and that policy should not take this responsibility, primarily the policy of allowing it to open a referendum when it agrees with its contents, and that it does not allow us to discuss the referendum when it does not agree with its content. The National Assembly, and above all the ruling majority, should not be a judge in such matters, especially when it comes to matters of legal correctness. For this reason, in the parliamentary group, we are forecasting obstruction at this point and we do not want to participate in such illegal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u64	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. It is sad that the National Assembly decides on actions that do not have a basis in the Constitution. Such a course has been taking place more and more recently. Slovenian citizens have already decided on how the legislation on deleted is. With a very large majority, they decided that that law was not appropriate, which the government has consistently and persistently offered. It is therefore their legitimate decision to protect the referendum decision that has been taken. This initiative is completely legitimate and speaks for democratic processes. The National Assembly is not the one to judge justification in this case. We expected the President of the National Assembly to do this as necessary. Of course, there will be no participation by the parliamentary group in such actions, since the decision on constitutional issues or on that assessment is not in the domain of the national assembly. This has been the case for us lately that the National Assembly has been making decisions that are not in its domain, and the Constitutional Court is also becoming a legislator. Wrong thing. It's actually a perverted democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u66	Anyone else want a word? My colleague Tsukati and colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u67	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Never did our parliamentary group oppose the realization of the principle that the National Assembly is obliged to resolve the issue brought to its attention by the Constitutional Court. However, it is the right of the national assembly to arrange this in its own way, to arrange it in a manner consistent with national interests and other legislation. And nothing else is the wish of the signatories, an initiative for a referendum rather than for voters to check whether this way of solving this particular issue is appropriate or not. And the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative speaks if the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, it may require the Constitutional Court to decide. Gentlemen, you have the right to doubt that this referendum issue is unconstitutional. You have the right. You also have the right to request the Constitutional Court to judge this. But you have no right to assume the office of judge! As a result, we have already warned in the previous session that this is the usurpation of power, that it is in some way a breakdown of the legislation and legal certainty provided by our Constitution and legislation. I also said the case of the first-born man - the criminal squeezed in his throat, the second time it's easier, the third time it's routine. Today, gentlemen, it's a second time, and that's easier. This will be your third time. We do not want to participate in such work, because this is the greatest disgrace in this mandate you have caused to Slovenian parliamentary democracy. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are predicting obstruction of voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Peace in the hall. The word is given by Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party's Group estimate that the decision of the political majority of the national assembly at the previous meeting was wrong to call for a referendum initiative. At that time, we left the meeting and did not vote on this decision. Even today, when a group of citizens and citizens have fully properly submitted the referendum question, which is constitutionally correct and relates to two solutions in the law, which we assess in the procedure that there are no substantive reasons for today's national assembly to accept the route it has been routed to the previous meeting and will not call for the referendum itself. This decision is, in a substantive sense, wrong, but also in a procedural sense, because we have violated the principle that until one procedure is completed, a new procedure begins. Therefore, today, the Group of Members will not participate in this decision and we are forecasting obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u72	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision proposed by the Internal Policy Committee. Voice explanation, please, Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to explain my vote because we will remain in the Chamber and because I will vote on my conscience because I have a mandate to vote on this. I am aware that after the fourth attempt to repeat one and the same story, in which the candidates of the re-referendum, on the one hand, first tackle the burden of the national assembly with things we have already done or, to say the least, all and more; when they are burdening us - and this is certainly not a problem because we are paid to do so - they make fun of us as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The claim that such a referendum will save us some money when they try to make us happy for the fourth time in a row with a cost of 600 million dollars is unbelievable. Above all, I think it's an underestimation of citizens watching this whole circus on television. And I apologize to all my colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government for using this term because it is "deja vu". Fourthly, the same story, the only difference is that Mr Grims here today did not speak, but we can also expect the fifth and sixth and the seventh. That is why it seems to me that it is time for us to reject the matter here, because otherwise the matter will be repeated until the end of the mandate to the detriment of the Slovenian state and the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Please check the voting devices. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 46 present, 45 for and none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to the next item in the agenda. You want me to set a five-minute break? I'm just asking, colleagues and colleagues. We're moving to 2. This is for the defence of corruption, clientalism and money laundering in connection with the government of the Republic of Slovenia, public enterprises or economic companies in the majority of the population and government policy in the Republic of Slovenia, and problems of the effectiveness of the state authorities in preventing large gollufies and conjuring food stores, with proposals for conclusions. I ask that the candidates of this agenda item come to the Chamber. Can I ask the representatives of the proposers of this point to come to the hall? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We will also wait for representatives of the government, Comrade Jakič, when they are not there, please. Peace in the hall, please! The request to convene an extraordinary meeting with proposals for conclusions was submitted to the assembly by a group of 23 Members and Members, with first signed by Janez Janša. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, come on! [[...]] Please, in peace! Comrade Janez Janša, you have the floor for the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In view of the fact that, at the last debate or at the last meeting on a similar subject, where we have not actually received time to explain the reasons for the call, there has been a lot of evidence that the National Assembly is not a place for Parliament not to discuss corruption, I would like to say at the outset, on behalf of the applicants, that there is no Parliament in the world that would not discuss it; that there are significantly less corruption in the world, and that there is still a way in which Parliament deals with individual cases to which it is occurring. The last such cases are, for example, in Italy, where the Italian Parliament is practically discussing corruption on a monthly basis. We had the Enron case and the debate at the U.S. Congress, which happened almost the same week that the case broke out. Then again the Italian Parliament with the Parmalat affair, and a few years ago the Belgian Parliament with regard to the suspected corruption of the former Prime Minister and then Secretary General Nate, Willy Cleas, in connection with the purchase of helicopters and so on. In short, there is no democratic parliament to discuss whether corruption is being discussed at all. We were the only ones on this side last time. These findings and these concerns are not based in particular on the fact that we were included in the latest research by the International Institute for Management after the use of internal information is said to be "insidering" after corruption, in an infamous last place between 60 countries and regions. So there are still some strong reasons why we should be discussing this as a legislative authority. In recent years, Slovenia has been shaken by a number of scandals, from bankruptcys of savings banks, SIB banks, Sigma, Orion, and so on. I don't know, I can list some, Red Cross, Elan, example Friday, Sigma in Nova Ljubljanska banka, Fund for the construction of a new paediatric clinic, sale and purchase of system technology in Viator Vector, billions of irregularities in the Ljubljana municipality, purchase of a government plane and renting a government plane under suspicious conditions, Zbiljski Gaj, Insurance Triglav, affair with bankruptcy managers and so on and so on. The common characteristics of all these thefts were as follows. As a rule, they came in on a day-to-day basis to complain to the victims, to persistent complaints by those who were injured, about the press investigations that began on this basis, and also on the basis of questions raised by the opposition in Parliament. Another common feature of these phenomena is the fact that individuals from or close to government policy were usually involved in these frauds and thievery, except in some individual cases. The following feature of all these phenomena is the fact that the investigating authorities have practically entered the investigation only after the pressure of the public and the opposition, just a few times on their own, and only a few cases have occurred where these irregularities have been detected following the audit of the Court of Auditors. The next common feature of all these negative phenomena is the fact that the injured or injured generally did not receive back any of their assets or just a few percent. In some cases, however, the repair of damage was limited only to those individuals who were re-emalisms or influences in government policy. On the other hand, suspected corrupt practices or those who directly benefited from these thefts tend to retain such acquired property; on the one hand, those who are affected receive nothing back; on the other hand, those who take advantage of it keep it all. Another key feature of all these events, which is also the main reason why we believe the Slovenian Parliament should be involved in this, is that none of these major thefts, discovered in the last ten years, have yet to be experienced by a legal, judicial epilogue. Even where criminal proceedings were initiated, they were largely directed only against operators, very rarely against those who made decisions. The last such highly supervised case is the case of SIB Bank, which we have already discussed twice in this National Assembly and only after that has something started. Well, there the investigation was completed at the level of the contractor already in December, as stated by the former Attorney General. None of those who were present when the decision was taken - and when the decision was taken, Mr Mirko Bandelj, Prime Minister-General, was involved - was even in the investigation, only those who immediately carried out the decision were in the investigation process; those who took the decision, although it was publicly published, although some of the victims were not even in the investigation, except that the proceedings were initiated. If anyone thinks that what is undeniable is a fact, because that there was no legal epilogue; that virtually no one got back what was taken from him from those injured; that all those who injured had kept the property; that this happened by accident and that it was only something that could be prescribed to the judicial backlog or that things were going slowly, that such an explanation would probably not have received a single vote here. Apparently the system's not working, obviously it's not working on purpose. At that time, legislation has changed many times, and many new laws, resolutions, decisions, and finally anti-corruption laws have been adopted, but this has not led to any judicial epilogue. Now of all these cases that have recently taken place and where an investigation has taken place, only in connection with the investigation in the Novo Mesto Communal has it been suggested that the investigating authorities are dealing with matters with some necessary seriousness and without any suspicion of political influence. Such an investigation was not in the case of Orion; when it was made, they only found that the documentation was long ago in the Virgin Islands and abroad. Such an investigation was not practical in any of the similar cases that took place. Nor have many older economic criminal or financial criminal affairs in Slovenia generally experienced a judicial epilogue. Let us recall the judgment in the case of Elan, where former Judge Šubic had issued judgment for so long that it was all obsolete. Nothing happened to him. He was rewarded with new functions and duties. And if anyone mentions it, it can even happen that in similar cases he threatens to sue for damages - as if it were someone who was engaged in a private activity, not a judge who was paid to work in accordance with the law and oath. Without a judicial epilogue, there have been cases where those who have created common assets in this country have been, and those who pay taxes that have been stolen by thousands of millions of assets. The result was job losses, the region's developmental depression, because some economic basis for development was destroyed - otherwise it was not responsible. Here is an example of the bankruptcy of the Moroccan Tama, where hundreds of millions of money were stolen or stolen from the company for rehabilitation, where many criminal charges were filed, but also because of changes to the legislation proposed by the government coalition in virtually the same composition, matters were more or less obsolete. The huge withdrawals were from the banking group of the Ljubljana Bank without any liability. Then we have the Primex case again tens of millions of euros of today's money without any liability; the Beach Hipoko case with many injuries, then the Kardo case, where more than 400 people were injured, thousands of people were injured in the case of Dadas, then the frauds associated with the Hit casino, Metal Commerce, On-On, Optimism, the bankruptcys of many of the savings that we are talking about in the special chapter; the case of Slovenia, where only the accountant was ultimately convicted, the case of Smelt, where there was a billion-year-old fraud or malversion, and the people involved here are now in new functions; the case of Vidma Krsko, the purchase of the Astra police boat and some 40 other reverberal affairs of the older date, where there were also no judicial epilogues; and over this has been redistributed into hundreds of private hands now. Given that there is a fear that this situation will simply continue, even though the ruling coalition has proposed some anti-corruption law, there is now a resolution in Parliament on the fight against corruption, despite the fact that we had an anti-corruption office first, there are now some commissions. Fear that nothing will change, there is, because all of these institutions, which have been set up in a new way, have no jurisdiction whatsoever to resolve any matter legally, only analyses will be written, draw new funds from the budget, and where things should be, things remain intact. These are law enforcement agencies, this is the prosecution, and this is the judiciary. Here, however, the cases are so connected that if the authorities are involved, if those who have appointed prosecutors, judges, directors of investigative authorities and so on are among them, nothing simply happens, only if there is a hot thief, then perhaps sometimes the law works. Now, in all these cases listed in our paper, it is possible to draw a common line, all of which proves that, given that it would be very difficult to isolate out a case where the matter has been resolved, but that everything that was major in the field of economic crime has been indisputable, it is indisputable that such a situation can only be found when there is a huge link between the holders of public and political functions of enforcement, administrations and supervisory councils, in particular state-owned enterprises and private enterprises owned or managed by members and sympathizers of those parties who are in power or those individuals who are in charge of governance and decision-making, because anyone who is a government party is, of course, not. We were after, for example, after the first extraordinary meeting on a similar subject, which was limited only to the issue of SIBs, even partial optimists, because some of the investigations had taken place, the National Assembly, if you remember, without any major or such drastic differences as are currently taking place, adopted quite firm conclusions. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy then also broken down these conclusions, identified their implementation, assessed the functioning of certain state institutions, and even ran several months of business. However, when we put forward a thematic or substantive proposal for the previous extraordinary session or for today's extraordinary meeting, or for formal decisions in which the National Assembly merely requires some reports, as in the case of the Bank's SIB, the ruling coalition and also the same legal service of the National Assembly, as was the case when we discussed the Bank's SIB, took the view that this is not formally possible now. A few months ago, this was formally possible, but now in the same national assembly, with the same legislative and legal service, with the same Members, it is not possible under the same Rules of Procedure, although only in the decision, instead of SIB, the bank writes, say, Mobil or Telekom; which means, of course, that the problem is not the legal basis, but that the problem is that those who are in power are much more involved here and much more afraid that any matter would actually come on the day if the competent institutions of the national assembly actually reported on this situation. In addition to the general negative consequences of increasing corruption on social development and economic development, particular mention must be made of the negative consequences that arise in what we call small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Small and medium-sized enterprises are largely linked to the acquisition of public procurement transactions, either at national or local level. Through the budgetary financing of public investment, a large part of the Slovenian economy is being converted. And if there are no rules of the game that would apply to all the same, if there is no transparency here, if someone who is closer to a government option, therefore comes to work, then this has a negative impact not only on some economic development but also on some climate in society, because such behaviour in practice proves that he does not win the invitation or not get the job of the one who is the best, but who has better connections. And the one who is actually better, who would do more, who would do something for a smaller price, who would do the service better, more motivated and not get a job, is failing. And in recent years - we have recently received information that some degree of shutting down of small businesses in Slovenia has recently been extremely large. Even so, because they simply do not survive under such non-transparent conditions, if we add to this the payment indiscipline that haunts or suppresses their development, then this is not a good prospect for economic development. We have proposed seven conclusions at the end of this material and after the President has not given a word at the home working body that matters could be explained, after the Committee's leadership could not explain why those who should be invited to the meeting should be invited in accordance with the current manner of the Council's work, and when almost half of the Committee has left this meeting, the members of the ruling coalition who have remained in the working body have supported only three of these proposed decisions, those which are more general, but who have also substantially changed these decisions or have also substantially modified them. What is essential in this transformation is, of course, a deadline. We have requested these reports within one month or until the end of June or some longer, and the ruling coalition has extended this deadline to four months in these conclusions, now proposed by the Committee. If we ask ourselves why this deadline has been extended to four months, then we see that or that the institution is supposed to give these reports after the next national elections. This is evidence of some strong fear of the rulings of at least getting reports of the problem. We wanted to present some specific cases, or some specific cases, in addition to what we are now presenting at the previous extraordinary meeting, which show that economic operators on the Slovenian market are not exactly equal because of the negative consequences of corruption and customerism, in relation to government-owned and state-owned policies or sometimes public-owned enterprises. Our time was limited and this was not possible, so I will present one of these cases now. As you know, we presented in material, as well as in numerous performances and press conferences, a general view of how some public companies in the field of telecommunications in Slovenia were created, what was happening, how the competition of domestic companies was not foreign – abroad was later enabled, but by domestic companies. And how the monopoly in telecommunications, in particular Telekom and Mobile, was created, which some politicians used to finance their own electoral campaigns or electoral campaigns by the largest government party and also to satisfy any material interests of the people associated with this government structure. When these things came in the day, there was an anti-offensive. Members of the National Assembly, we have received large red bags in which the documentation is supposed to convince us that these eyewitnesses of the opposition are unjustifiable. If anyone had read this documentation, then you couldn’t, but until today it was possible, he found that it was a propaganda material that tried with some quantity and expectation that no one would read it and understand it at all, to reject the evidence. But if we take a good look at these papers, we see: for the first time, that this is a company that has declared some patents, but most of them are not registered; that it is mainly a design application, not a "know-how". And what's most important is that for the area that we've talked about in the first place, because we didn't get involved in things that maybe this company works well, but we were only talking about these vehicle tracking devices that this company doesn't have, not registered, not registered any patent. Not a single one! Anyone who doesn't believe in looking at these big red bags. Well, and there's something else that's very important, and what I'd like to do today, because last time it wasn't possible, I've documented. Also on the basis of this material, it has been found that in recent months, according to our judgment, there has been considerable damage to state resources, by allowing a state-owned company to sell the product to a private company that has only developed it. And more! This product, which is a vehicle tracking system, has been developed directly by the means of this public undertaking. And this product was then sold to the main state-owned companies for huge sums or leases. Since it was said last time we were talking, allow me to present some evidence. Here I have a contract that proves that on 1 June 1999 three private companies, GMT d.o.o., Bobo d.o.o., Humanik manager d.o.o., plus two public or state companies, namely RTV Slovenia, the organisational unit of broadcasters and liaisons, and Mobil, entered into a partnership contract, number 1/99, and with this contract tenderers regulate relations regarding the marketing of falco product. This product or this is a vehicle tracking device. Even earlier, these same companies have concluded a contract, which is also available here, in which they have agreed, what will be the share of development, how this will be financed, who will carry development, who will market and who will provide what services. Now this product has enabled the alarm and monitoring of vehicles near the theft, forced intrusion, monitoring of vehicle movements on a special map of Slovenia, Europe via telephone line, modem and computer. Option to establish a connection with the driver of the vehicle via GSM network, control and alarm facilities. Under this contract, Mobiltel, which has also invested a third of the funds for the development of this product, is also expected to market this system. And at the end of 1999, the system was developed. The cell phone purchased some 100 copies of this product from the manufacturer, from the company that was also involved in the development. A personal brochure for this falco 2000 system was produced for the vehicle tracking system. In this brochure is also a pricelist for rental services, for various configurations and the case was market-based. In 2000, the case was commercially operational. And, as has already been said, the first one to decide that this product, which he had developed himself, was the state-owned company Mobil. After the matter has been completed and the company has already bought and paid a certain number of these products, there will be some background event, which, of course, is not documented and the matter will stop. The cell phone is no longer interested in marketing this product, nor does it use the device that it has developed and paid for itself, but after a while this same product buys from the private company Ultra Subsystems "Tok track". The exact same characteristics, same offer, slightly smaller scope. The essential difference between the product under the name Falco and the same product under the name Tok track is mainly the price. The Falco system was significantly cheaper than the Tok track system, although it allowed, not significantly, but still some smaller capacity. But he was much more expensive. The first buyer of this system was the state-owned company Mobil, although it had only previously developed an operating system and paid for it to a large extent. The other companies, I don't know what happened to RTV Slovenia, Broadcasters and Links, but I'm sure some of the billions of losses this house shows are also due to such transactions, which were then not completed, but were financed and we're paying this now via RTV subscription. Private companies that have participated or a company that has developed this has simply been played off the market. They did not respond to the letters, and they have only a judicial path left to protect their rights, which in Slovenia, as we will see from one of the following cases, is long and usually very risky when someone opposes those in power. Everything I've just said is documented. The data's here. Some of these documents were shown after the previous extraordinary session, and there was great interest in copying among journalists. None of them have published anything on this. But there have been a lot of comments that we haven't proved any of what we've seen about these connections. The matter has been fully proven on its own. At the last meeting, we also mentioned all the state-owned companies that, after the first Mobile had done so, ordered or hired this system from Ultra. In just one case, our statements were not correct, and it is not true that this system would also be hired by the Environment Agency of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. Don't hold it. However, this also happened in a strange way at a time when some major changes in decision-making occurred at a time when we had already submitted a request for that first extraordinary meeting. Maybe it doesn't matter either. It is essential that this agency has issued an invitation to tender for these devices for 10 cars. While Telekom has a minimum of 800 units, Posta Slovenije has 720 and hundreds of these facilities. And given that the rent per month after this price from Ultra costs between 20 and 30 thousand, according to the configuration of one vehicle, calculate some millions and billions are accumulated over the years. And sales and markets are more expensive than they were already marketed in 2000, or as was the attempt to market a system that was also mostly developed through public funds and state money. If anyone thinks that this can happen on the basis of market legality, that this does not happen because, for example, the President of the Council of Liberal Democracy for business talks with himself also brings the President of the Supervisory Board of that company with whom representatives are talking about believing who wants to. Let him believe who he wants. As a result of these well-proven frauds, we have also proposed a decision to prevent such corrupt behaviour in the future, which was rejected at a meeting of the board with the huron vote of the ruling coalition. We have proposed that the government prepare legal solutions on the basis of which those who have spent years or a certain period of dress and grooming in putting people into supervisory councils and administrations of state-owned enterprises cannot then operate with these companies after some competitive clause. At the Committee's meeting, it was said that this was already prohibited by the anti-corruption law, which, of course, is not true. This law imposes such a prohibition only on the holders of state functions, not on the holders of political functions. And here's the big difference. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, your coalition contract states that the main human resources decisions are coordinated with the coordination of the main secretaries of the ruling coalition. That's where these key decisions fall. There are people who are pacing and dressing, who decide who will be in what supervisory council and in what administration, and these people are not covered by the anti-corruption law. And you knew that very well when you rejected a decision at the meeting of your mother's working body, which only suggested that the government prepare measures to ensure that such a solution is also incorporated into our legislation. At the end of this introduction, something later, I would like to say that the aim of the applicants for this extraordinary session is not only to draw attention to this problem, but to note that so many cases without a judicial epilogue cannot be a clean case and is obviously a major anomaly in the system of Slovenian parliamentary democracy that allows it. Another time. Our aim is to draw attention to the correlation or link between the fact that public money in companies where the state is the majority owner, where it places supervisory councils and administrations, where clear and cloudy, where the economy is so called, is spending a lot of money irrationally, that it is, therefore, less money for everything else, for wages, for pensions, for scholarships, and that, therefore, the taxes are also higher, that, finally, economic growth is also lower. Last year we reached the lowest in the period after the conquest. Our aim is also to draw attention to these problems, not to the illusions that Parliament will now save all these 50 or 60 or 70 affairs, where tens of thousands of people have been harmed, and that this will result in some sort of judicial epilogue. He won't. However, we would like to draw attention to these things, to direct the attention of the public to this problem, to put pressure on the government to prepare appropriate solutions in this direction, and also to discuss only, with caution, this problem, to protect the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs most affected in this process. We also want to encourage institutions to do what they should do. None of this would have happened if the institutions had functioned normally. We would not need a resolution on the fight against corruption, not a specific law, nor specific commissions if those paid for it, and relatively well done their jobs. In addition, the fact that it is not so much for those working on specific cases should be added. It's a political war. It is those who guide the work of these institutions that guide the work of the prosecution, which adopt certain guidelines in judicial policy that guide law enforcement authorities. If there was a will here, then these institutions or people who are employed and who are mostly highly qualified would normally do so. As has already been said, after the last extraordinary session or after the first attempt, because it was not a meeting at all, we have encountered a very large problem in terms of presenting evidence for our claims in the material itself and also in terms of responding to unjustified allegations that have arisen or that have flown to the proponents. On the one hand, there was no time to explain matters; on the other hand, we were told that we had not submitted any evidence, because we did not have time to do so. Thirdly, when we convened a press conference after an extraordinary meeting, we distributed a number of materials, including some of which I have just talked about, none of which was published anywhere. Moreover, probably the most influential Slovenian week, Delo devoted virtually the entire Saturday edition after that first extraordinary session of this topic, practically with a frontal attack on the applicants, with disqualifications, with accusations that it was not served with any evidence. When we wanted to answer that question, wrote some answers, asked for the right to correction, they first told that they had lost our letters to this respected editor of the newspaper, Delo. Then we sent them again, and it wasn't published again. Then we called again, and I spoke in person to a new editor who said that it would be published, only that they were pawned again. And it hasn't been published today. Not only is it not published, we do not get a written answer, why it is not published. As a result, we have a reduced right to judicial protection. They do not reply without making their replies public, although Article 40 of the Constitution guarantees this right. However, we cannot exercise this right; we cannot demand judicial protection because they do not want to give a written answer why they have not published it. Of course, this is not the only case, but it is the most drastic in this regard. And this is supposed to be freedom of the press and freedom of speech in this country. We are afraid that the same will happen with regard to this meeting, so we will make sure that most of this material, which I have been talking about, will be published on the www.sdssi website as of today and tomorrow, which I cannot present here. Anyone who has access to the Internet can read the evidence for these claims in this material for an extraordinary session, along with this material, on this website.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Would any of the other applicants like to complete this introductory explanation? Dr. Bayuk. Then is there anyone else behind you, Dr. Bayuk, or are you the last of the editorials? He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, a nice greeting also to citizens, citizens who follow this meeting, if that is the case. This year, the 12-year period of government under the primacy of Liberal Democracy is over, so we can already come up with an assessment of this success story. For some people who were close to the tops of the ruling parties, this time was truly successful, as they became real rich people, owners of businesses or shares worth a few billion tolars. However, they were mostly rich at the expense of other citizens, who could estimate this same period as the time in which they lost hope and many also part of their assets. During this long period of government with most of the parties, in one way or another, the successors of the old party, which had ruled absolutely for almost 50 years before, we have witnessed difficult strategic mistakes in Slovenia. In the economy, entire industries have practically disappeared, with Metal, Hydromontage, Litostrom, Tamm, Automontage, Tomos was lost a huge material and intellectual potential of Slovenia. The metal and electricity industries are greatly reduced, not to mention the textile and leather industries, where problems are objective in nature. Agriculture has become almost entirely dependent on state subsidies. In the banking sector, we see a lot of concentration. After a hundred years of history, the earth was virtually destroyed by the system of nutrients. The only industry that prospers like no other is bureaucracy. It is constantly multiplying and causing more damage than the costs themselves. Of this clear reports in international comparisons, which we have already discussed and how much more you will hear about them. Of course, in Novi Slovenija, we are not advocating any more State intervention, but we argue that the mere excessive interference between the policies of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom in the economy is the most responsible for the collapse of these industries and the worrying backlog in the competitiveness of our economy. Even more far-reaching consequences will be the strategic errors of the rule of continuity in the fields of demographics, employment, pension and social policy, but we will deal with this another time. Today we will focus on the points we have announced for this meeting. In the material, we have cited several cases that were publicly referred to as affairs. We have tagged them using a beautiful Slovenian term for thieving. These are very serious frauds, which make many Slovenians live far worse and poorer than they would have been if national authorities and competent supervisory institutions were to do their job well. Individual cases, however, point to the strategic systemic errors of LDS governments. We are, of course, assessing strategic errors from the point of view of the interest of the majority or interest of the Slovenian country, because from the point of view of small groups of connected persons, they have been extremely useful and have enabled them to make a fortune at the expense of the majority. The biggest strategic error we can call the land of the century was the implementation of the ownership of former social enterprises. Among the types of ownership concepts used in the former communist countries was the Slovenian way - although I am talking about what has actually been accomplished, not how it was designed - the most imprudent and therefore allowed for the greatest imbalances that we now perceive and see the consequences. In Slovenia, we had an abnormal approach, a combination of officially declared property through the distribution of property certificates and actual internal property, allowing former directors of social enterprises to own companies entrusted to them. I can say that in Slovenia, most of the wealthy, the owners of the largest companies or the largest shares, have come to wealth by taking advantage of their position in the previous regime, not because of some extremely good management in the current market economy system. Instead of protecting former social property in the well-being of employees and all citizens who were formal owners, they abused their trust and adopted it themselves. The former directors, who have acquired businesses, are now ruthlessly exploiting their position, which they have achieved through an imprudent internal buyout. Even in companies where there are shares in addition to the director and supervisors other employees, the management generally abuses its position. There, workers are in a double dependent position, as the administration sets them both for salaries and for the value of internal shares. In Slovenia, therefore, the value of internal shares is on average even lower than their book value, while in other European countries domestic shares are generally 10 or more times higher than book value. In assessing Slovenian privatisation or privatisation, we can understand some essential, simple models that are always linked to fraud. It began with so-called Markovic shares, which could be explained by Dr Bohinc, the current Slovenian Minister of the Interior, who was Minister, and, if I am not mistaken, even the Vice-President of the last government of the communist Yugoslavia, led by Mr Markovic. At that time, the arrangements were in place to allow the company to distribute to the employees part of the salaries in the form of certificates which could be used for internal ownership. This is supposed to be done by insolvent companies that didn't have money to pay their salaries. In many well-established companies, however, this possibility has been misused by the establishment of extremely high salaries for employees, of which only part was paid in cash at the level of the normal salary for the work done and the difference was given to employees in the form of property certificates. Most of the workers then sold these certificates to directors and other members of the administration at ridiculous prices, and they, directors, thus obtained a large share of the ownership of the company they ran. After the independence of Slovenia, the abuse of property of the former common property has become even more extensive. The most typical was the abuse of by-pass companies, in mixed ownership of the parent company and the director of the parent company as private. Under the regulations of that time, the property of the parent company could be transferred to a by-pass company that became highly profitable and purchased with the donated money from the parent company, where only the debts and surplus workers remained. Even more frequent abuses have been made possible by the Development Fund, initially led by Uroš Korže, our rich acquaintance from Elan. This model can be seen in the BTC case. After the Director, together with some individuals, acquired about 10% of the equity shares mentioned above, he transferred the remaining 90% of the assets, which were still in social property, to the so-called Korjet Fund. At the time, they called an sworn connoisseur who estimated that there was no social property in BTC. On the basis of this assessment, BTC has transformed into a 100% private company where the only known owners of the director and friends from the development fund have bought off the share of the former social property that they parked there during the property conversion, as they now call it, or hid it. According to the Property Transformation Act, the LDS government has distributed large propaganda to all citizens of property certificates to purchase shares of former social enterprises. This was a major fraud, as they could only get the full value of certificates employed in profitable companies, which are internal property and rare individuals who bought shares of about a dozen companies that put some shares into public sale. All others were able to place these certificates in pandas, but they did not have a guaranteed coverage because the companies whose shares were to be obtained had already become domestic owners. The result of this story is well known, since it was actually only used for even greater concentration of property. In addition to former directors, these certificates were used by the owners of the pids, which were largely based on the political merit of many parties. Large advertising campaigns attracted certificate owners who were unable to buy their own shares and then did not provide even a tenth of the nominal value for the certificates submitted. Most fraudulent citizens soon gave up and sold certificates at a price to pid owners, who knew from the beginning that the state would give them some assets to cover. Certificates thus resulted in an abnormal concentration of capital in the hands of a small group in the leadership of pids, which are now among the most wealthy and prominent people in Slovenia. According to some information that has been leaking to the public recently, one percent of pid owners own about 90% of the capital of these institutions. The country has not responded to the severe abuse of trust by millions of certificate holders and has allowed former pids to be enriched when the real owners of the certificates were shaken. The State did not protect investors, but rather owners of pids who had given them the status of a closed company and then allowed them even to transform into private investment companies. The ownership of former social enterprises is now to be completed. The consequences are devastating for the majority of citizens who are even worse than they used to be. Instead of becoming small shareholders, owners of companies in so-called social property, they are still a hired workforce. Former directors now have even stronger positions than they had in the previous system, which, however, had a range of control mechanisms to prevent abuse. Privatisation also made them owners of companies and thus gave them a life or hereditary mandate. But there is one perfectly legitimate question. Will we really allow them to maintain this position in the rule of law? Your Honor! We are talking about corruption and customerism in today's session. In this respect, we note that classical bribery with money in an envelope, a meeting at a trap in a park or a inn in Slovenia in recent years has withdrawn from more imaginary forms. A public official who can choose to award a large public order to an undertaking, to whom to overlook shortcomings, to whom to confirm the correctness of the conduct, to cover debts or to grant subsidies for his affection, would rather require a good service from an economic society or some other tangible benefit that he will receive after the end of his public office. That public officials can choose, as I have told them, which company will be awarded a certain public order, which will be overlooked by the lack to which to confirm the correctness of the conduct, without any consequences, as we well know that the deadlines for disciplinary procedures are outdated - and this vast majority of this national council did not want to correct. That's why they have a choice, no consequences, thanks to you. At the time of the ownership of the former social enterprises, a number of development fund or its successors or other state authorities who supervised the ownership were soon after directors, among other things, were decisively helping to own former social enterprises, gained seats in the administration of the same companies. During the 12 years of the coalition under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy, a small pool of officials has been formed, which circulates through government agencies and offices, and occasionally moves to places in the boards of the largest companies, banks and insurance companies, as appointments to the highest positions in the economy and the state administration often feature one and the same names. The management class in the economy now consists of people who know each other well from earlier times and are increasingly closing in on their exclusive circle. Their main interest is the defence of the situation. In doing so, they exploit their strong influence on the public media, which represent the interest of this group as a national interest, and on their personal ties in the government and in state supervisory institutions, which, through intolerable bureaucracy, discourage competition. And this is one of the main reasons for closing the Slovenian economy before foreign investments, although they are essential for greater competitiveness of businesses and economies. The directors are aware that their position and power are still dependent on their old friendships. Therefore, they continue to meet the same people, rather than looking for new contacts, new people, thus opening up their businesses to new, young people and expanding the business network abroad. There are also open societies, such as Forum 21, and the Chamber of Commerce has long been a club of formers that all entrepreneurs have to pay. In addition to the directors who had already carried out this function in the previous regime, ministers and top state officials also took the lead in the largest companies. In the boards of the largest companies we can find former ministers or secretaries and many other officials. There is clearly a close cooperation and association between politics and the economy, with lobbying for the economy, and mainly for politicians to pave the way from a risky political career to a comfortable position in the economy. In the course of this transition, it will also be necessary to clarify strangely, sooner or later, and for taxpayers, the highly damaging story of the state debt repayment of general shipping debts, which have made the financial situation of the bank of Kore. The Bank of Cyprus was then purchased by three famous companies - Istrabenz, Luka Koper, Inter Europe. Let me also mention that they have also violated the takeover law in this deal, but the Securities Market Agency has not noticed or at least has not carried out any consequences. When the government decided that the actual takeover of the general shipping debt of approximately 75 million US dollars would be transferred to the state debt, the value of Koper’s shares rose to more than 10 times the price. Of course, the owners of Koper 78%, these three companies, did not immediately decide to sell, because after the then applicable income law they should pay the capital gains tax if they did so before they expired three years from the date of the original sale. Shortly after these three years had actually expired, however, they decided to sell their shares to the Italian bank. There was nothing to hear, no warning of national interest at the time. This sale made these owners very rich. They did not pay any capital gains tax, and the taxpayers were accounted for as the general shipping debts were paid from the state budget. There would be a lot of explaining or requiring clarification on this story. Whether the Slovenian public should only believe that it is merely a coincidence that the then Minister and High Officer of the Liberal Democracy became the director of one of these three companies overnight, without any prior experience in the economy being known. Similar stories regarding the use of taxpayers' money are also recalled from the time of the TAM conservation attempts In government parties, we find a crowd of officials who are eager to gain their political power to become members of the supervisory worlds of solid societies where the state has its own share, to be invited to lectures with high fees and to have access to the top positions in the economy. We ask ourselves, and many in Slovenia wonder: Where is the border on corruption? A number of senior government officials have mutually exclusive administrative and supervisory functions. Liberal democracy, through the government and state authorities, abuses state property in companies or shares of a capital and compensation company to set up audited personnel on the boards and supervisory boards of companies. Through state-owned enterprises, the Liberal Democracy is implementing its own selfish policy, unfair and biased parts of state aid and public procurement, which is not in line with free market and competition. This undermines the system of equality in the economy and clearly damages competition and competitiveness. At the Public Prosecutor's Office in October 1999, at the request of the Government, a long report was prepared on the procedures initiated by the so-called illegal property ownership of the social property. So far, the public has not learned what has happened to these proposals. Mrs Zdenka Cerar, then general prosecutor, became Minister of Justice. Now there are some concrete cases. I'd like to mention an extremely deplorable affair about the ownership of the Triglav insurance company. Although this story is far less dangerous than the others, it represents one of the rare cases where the administration has failed the plan by which they tried to own this insurance company. Even to the opposition's pressure, the government had to react and, even with the amendment of the law, broke this story, but then, apart from the replacement of the director, nothing happened to the shares acquired by members of the administration and by some other individuals until then. It is said that the Auditor’s House Constance, which was to be selected on the call, had already handed over to the contracting authorities in December, that is, to the Assembly, and had submitted a audit report to the shareholder, which found, inter alia, the payment of individual awards totalling 900 million tolars. She also found the sale of shares under the table only to selected individuals from the administration, not at a much higher market price at the bookstore, and also discovered or revealed the unusual lending of these purchases through a purchased stock package. The tax evasions or delays that are supposed to have been identified by this audit have been remedied, but we do not know yet, but we will require reports because they are not privately owned by one and the same institution. All of this has been silent since December, as the audit report has not been transmitted to either shareholders or to the national assembly and, of course, is not accessible to the public. Here too the old story of stalling, not responding to conclusions and waiting to forget responsibility and legalise the achievements of privatisation. I would also like to mention the case of the well-known and recognized veil factory Velana, where leadership is very successful, is now protecting its own fraud for the fifth year now. The Velane case is also interesting as a typical example of ownership through the by-pass company. As early as 1991 Velana was a parent company and 17 privates, mostly in leading cities in Velana, including the director, a joint venture with its head office in Zagreb instead of the previous Velina factory trade. Velana invested all the assets, premises and equipment in this company, which was estimated at 38% of the founding capital, while the private sector that invested after 211 German brands received 62% of the share. This is not a finding of the opposition, this was found by the audit agency already in 1999. And she found that it was to determine the shares for fraud in the injury of Velana, because in fact its share was at least 99.2 of the total value of that company. A similar relationship was established with the other two "by-pass" companies, which were set up by former Velana businesses from Velana in Maribor and Sarajevo. In the course of such an assessment of the shares, the private company received in the Zagreb company from the three-year division of profits on the average stake of the already mentioned 211 German brands, as well as 2940 German brand dividends. This damaged all shareholders of the parent company in Ljubljana, including domestic owners. Maternal Velana, led by people who own subsidiaries, deals with these companies in their own losses, and their profits, which it does with abnormal domestic prices at which it places the products of the parent company through a private company in the majority ownership of the leaders. Share prices in subsidiaries are rising abnormally and stock prices in the parent company are falling. Thus, the book value of Velana shares is 2800 tolars and the current sales value is only 662 tolars. Such damage was possible only because most of the shares in the parent company had those who were also involved in the distribution of profits from the listed "by-pass" companies. In this story, it is most interesting, and I also mention that it is known by all authorities responsible for control of property, including prosecutors. However, nothing has changed significantly since 1999 when the competent agency discovered it. Complaints have been filed, the matter is still being dragged around various offices of our judicial authorities. On 25 May 2004, the person who formally filed a request for a state inquiry received a reply from the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, which assured him that he was, and here I quote: "The prosecution is still in the phase of the pre-trial procedure, with a view to obtaining as objective and complete information as possible on the basis of which we will make a final decision". After five years. Since even in our Slovenia it is considered that the right is deferred, in fact the right is denied, I would only conclude with this respectable colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers and viewers, welcome to our country of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u78	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u79	Your Honors are here! On 6 May this year, a preliminary meeting on this subject took place in this Chamber of the National Assembly. The so-called first session, at which the Assembly, Parliament, was to speak openly about the existence of corruption, customerism and money laundering. Unfortunately, however, the result of that meeting was different and of course 90 Members of Parliament. The result of the communication received by the Slovenian public, unfortunately or better, which we sent from this Chamber of State to the Slovenian public, was that we deny the existence of corruption, customerism and money laundering. I have already said at the previous point that I am very disappointed when the media write, the National Assembly has accepted or rejected this. The fact is that this is not a reflection of the policy of all political parties or parliamentary groups. The fact is that Parliament always plays it the way the ruling majority wants it to. And in this case, when it was a message to citizens and citizens that there is no corruption, there is no customerism and there is no washing the country, it was the political game of Liberal Democracy, the United List and, of course, the eternal companion of DeSUS. According to my assessment, in those days, on 6 May this year, the National Assembly took up the content of the debate on Liberal Democracy, in the sense that when it was raised in the opening speech by the representative of this Group, it is immoral to talk about corruption. While all of us external institutions, various research institutes within the European Union, are increasingly being placed on that scale of internal information flow about corruption, customerism, we or this national assembly are holding our eyes, closing our ears and covering our mouths before the existence of this. According to my assessment, this is no different than ignorance and ridicule from citizens and citizens, but this game, unfortunately, you can afford, obviously successfully, only within the framework of ruling parties. How did it come about that the National Assembly has taken on the game, that it is immoral to talk about the existence of corruption and that, as a result, it is moral only to talk about success in our country, that it is moral only to talk about how good, smart, beautiful, successful we are, how quickly we close our chapters in the pre-accession negotiations for the EU. I'll get back to that. I will give a few dates solely because all of you sitting here today, and those who accompany us, will be more easily represented by the course of events. A request for an extraordinary meeting was made on 22.4. Within 15 days, you were able to limit the time of discussion for that meeting in the ruling party. It's not that bad or important. It is bad or important that you have managed to limit the content on the basis of some of the articles of the Rules of Procedure, as interpreted by the leaders of this National Assembly. In other words, you prevented us from even talking in the National Assembly about corruption, clientism and similar phenomena. And, frankly, I congratulate you for never believing that you have so much power, you have also been able to limit the transmission of the debate. The draft conclusions were proposed for that meeting, which, according to the Slovenian National Party's Group's assessment as one of the candidates for this extraordinary meeting, would, of course, have three effects if they had been adopted. Firstly, what is most important in such a process is the recognition and knowledge of the existence of this problem. The fact is, if we play or if we play and say we don't recognise corruption, then we won't take a step forward, not us, not the judicial and supervisory institutions. The first step is to admit it to ourselves. And it is sad that today after ten years and a few years, we face a debate and try to convince you in the opposition that corruption, clientism and money laundering exist. It would be far more responsible on the part of all of us if we admitted and said, after all, we read the newspapers that we know about the existence of corruption, that we know about individuals who hide behind political parties, that we know about individuals who hide behind the government, or in this case I have to apologize - that we know about groups who hide behind the government, not individuals anymore, because it is such a common phenomenon. Furthermore, if we were to succeed at that time in the proposals we proposed in the group of Members who requested an extraordinary meeting, the next effect of the adoption of laws would also be in the form of guidance and guidance to those instances which we do not normally have an impact on, this would be judicial and supervisory institutions. And the third element of success, if then wisdom were sufficient to adopt these conclusions, would in any way be in the realization or realization of the record, which we had not long previously adopted in the National Assembly in the form of a declaration on the fight against corruption. This National Assembly has come to that level, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when it adopts certain documents at the declaration level, how it will fight with some phenomenon when this phenomenon occurs. This is supported by all, in good hope - and, of course, the next day is all written in newspapers - that when this happens, the Slovenian government and the other branches of government or any form of authority will deal with this matter. Unfortunately, whenever there is corruption, customerism, money laundering, anything that we can define as negative for the development of the market economy, we all use the famous, symbolically transmitted statue of a monkey who learns, ears and mouths, and sees nothing and says nothing. This is the Slovenian Parliament. We hide and hope to say only what is liked on one side of the capital, on the other, which is liked at certain times by a certain mass. This time we counted. Slovenian citizens and citizens, I believe, are not naive enough to believe such stories. As regards the resolutions and plans adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, it is necessary to say that their value is zero if they are not accompanied by certain actions or measures. But these actions and actions in our country are unfortunately not there. Even more. In the context of the United List, the Liberal Democracy as a permanent loyal companion of DeSUS, you have forbidden action, and this is the resentment we are fostering in the national party, towards you. Not only have you said or shown some degree of apathy to all these phenomena, but you have forbidden action. You forbade oversight, court cases, in the National Assembly to speak about it, or to try to limit it. And that's not right. Therefore, personally, I would like to finally replace a power that has a little bit more relations, especially the responsibilities of ordinary citizens and citizens. Why? When we talk about corruption, customerism and money laundering, it is very important that this is not only a unilateral effect that you are trying to understand or minimize in ruling parties. On the other hand, such work should be known in an increase in public debt, so it is known in the amount of public debt that burdens every citizen or citizen of our country. And at this point, we Slovenians are more indebted than we once were in the common country of the SFRJ. Regardless of age, age or age, each Slovenian is in charge of over a million Slovenian tolars because of the policy you are running in this country. It doesn't matter whether he has the right to vote or he doesn't have the right to vote. On the other hand, you are achieving synergies at that level of entrepreneurship or competitiveness that is trying to take place on the market because you are creating an unequal, unequal position on the market. You launch some companies as non-reimbursable financial assets repayable under favourable loans. This is what the speakers talked about in front of me, and this is likely to be discussed in the context of the continuation of today's point. But for all the other companies in our society, such funds are unattainable and do not matter or fulfil the tendering conditions. No, no, no. For them, it remains incomprehensible, unattainable. And that's the essence of what you're doing. According to my assessment, the previous meeting of the National Assembly, an extraordinary meeting where we discussed the same or related matter, resulted in only one, this is a mockery from citizens and citizens, of course, on your part. Therefore, once again in the national party, we convened an extraordinary meeting with some members of the National Assembly, opposition Members. This time, too, in the hope that government policy, the government's way of thinking, will stop protecting those three concepts that we have today in the title of an extraordinary meeting, namely corruption, customerism and money laundering. This time, the material prepared by Members for an extraordinary session, contains evidence, lists of affairs, irregularities, frauds and many more of these expressions for this, yours, nicely said, unscrupulous doing. By allowing this, by spreading this, to be with your carelessness or with the smile of Mr Lavrinc's type at this time of meeting of the National Assembly. But we can say that we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u80	Don't argue with your colleagues in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u81	with all of this work in the common denominator the following characteristics or all of these affairs take place in a consistent formula. [[..]] First time. All the affairs exploit the absence of quality legislation, those on which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia puts in every smog, every amospouse, when it says: "Slovenia has so quickly and so successfully completed all European negotiations, we have adapted our legislation so quickly." But this speed of adapting Slovenian legislation is also one of the culprits of negative views or negative concepts such as corruption, customerism. Because there are people who, with the help of government lobbyists, are already exploiting the conduct of the law's loopholes. So much for the bad side of the legislation, for which you are all so boasting, how Slovenia quickly completed all the chapters and how Slovenia was everyone from Strasbourg, Brussels, anywhere, flickering their shoulders and saying, "Yes, the Slovenian Parliament has really quickly accepted everything." But at what price? At the price of the laws we have today, at the price of the Notariat Act, at the price of the Economic Chamber Act, tax laws and all other laws that promote if they do not already force such corruption. Furthermore, the next common element for all the affairs that are partly mentioned in the material and all others in the daily newspaper is, of course, a deliberate violation of the legislation. As a third common point or feature of these affairs, however, we can say with certainty that none of them have experienced a judicial epilogue. In my opinion, it would be polite to say that this is a mockery of the judicial apparatus of our country, the judicial branch of power. It is not true, it is a mockery of the Republic of Slovenia, it is a mockery of both the government and the National Assembly, which blindly follows the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, all the last proof of the incompetence of the Slovenian judiciary. The third feature, or fourth characteristic, of all the affairs listed in the material today and here, is that they are all related or everywhere to those so-called connected persons sitting close to the government or their acquaintances, relatives. It hasn't been a month, or I apologize, it hasn't been a long time since we had a regular or extraordinary meeting on the SIB of the bank and Orion, where we have seen, if not the other, also the related links between those who are loading on the one hand, so let's say they represent the executive branch of the authorities and, on the other hand, they are carrying out these non-performing transactions within the company. As regards the previously mentioned absence of the judiciary in the broadest sense, I must say that this is also the responsibility of the State Assembly, which, on a proposal from the Government, has adopted that life-long mandate for judges, i.e. a mandate that will last forever. Regardless of the efficiency of the individual judge. Whenever in the Slovenian National Party we begin the topic that it is necessary to limit the judiciary's mandate to encourage judges to compete, to encourage them to reduce judicial backlogs, government representatives or representatives of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom to always yell at one stroke, and the Slovenian National Party would start interfering with the independent judiciary for the first time, or the second sentence we have heard for the past 5, 6 years, you who would like to dictate the pace and content of the work of the judiciary. Yeah, it's true. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like the Slovenian judiciary to become more effective. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to exempt friends of capital and friends of the Liberal Democracy from the condition of inviolability. Because the fact is that you created a judicial system that works on the one hand, on the other hand, that really corrupt side, and that system doesn't work. In the Slovenian National Party, we want the judiciary to work faster. All the measures taken by the national party were also directed to this end, but unfortunately they did not come across the support of the Liberal Democracy and the United Nations. Let me believe in naivety or your accusation when you say we can't interfere with the judiciary. Yeah, well, when are we going to, if not now that we know the judicial backlogs are huge? One of the biggest in Europe. When we know that none of the above-mentioned affairs have ever experienced the final epilogue of the court. Whether we will still look at the air and say the branches of justice, let them work independently if we see them working badly, if we see them working in the short term and pursuing the objectives exclusively of Liberal Democracy and the United List. We believe in the national party that this condition for the existence of corruption, customerism and money laundering, i.e. the inaction of the judiciary, could be improved or eliminated by a very simple measure. It would require some political will, at least for a moment within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to forget capitalism or capital sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, the material for today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is, in our opinion, prepared as a good material or basis for decision-making. The conclusions we have presented in the content of the material follow five objectives. Firstly, the most important: preventing political support for corruption. The fact is that in Slovenia it is typical that politics supports corruption and that it is always, over the years, through the creation of our new country always in the name of Liberal Democracy and the United List. The second objective, pursued in the form or content of the seven conclusions, is to finally express and give some quality, constructive support to judicial and supervisory institutions, as opposed to the support and guidance given at the declaration level. The next objective is to pursue or increase the activity, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, requires the activity of the Government, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and, last but not least, introduces the so-called anti-corruption clause through the contents of all seven conclusions. This is a clause introduced by some Slovenian companies and following the example of this clause also some local communities within the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly does not want to meet this anti-corruption clause. It will be interesting if, through these seven conclusions, you accept the content of this anti-corruption clause for all those in any branch of government we decide or decide within our country. And finally, certainly not at least important, especially the last part of the seventh decision, which in fact prohibits the simultaneous recruitment and staffing. [[I'd like to ask Mr. Lavrinco to stop talking on the phone because it bothers me.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u82	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Comrade Peca, each of the Members, how I hope to call a little more discreetly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u83	Apparently, it's new. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u84	you know the order; and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u85	also allow the use of the phone [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u86	and discipline in this house. [[...]] I tried to make sure they had the same options. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u87	On Friday, the Committee on Internal Policy, chaired by a telephone caller, Mr Lavrinc, met. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, there was a constant mockery, both of the content of the debate and of those who hoped or dared to talk about the existence of corruption and other concepts. There's been a bit of a dilemma. First of all, the conclusion material is not correct. When we are representatives of the opposition or representatives we have signed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr President, I have 20 minutes left in the debate of the Group of Members. Can I use that now so I don't go on stage twice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u88	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u89	When the representatives of the signatories informed the President, namely Mr Lavrinc, of his abnormal conduct and his abnormal request that the material and conclusions be not properly presented, it is particularly in the sense that it would be fair and necessary and wise to invite those who are also invited to the meeting. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] According to the functions stated, of course this requirement has been eliminated. How should it take place on the working body, on the working body, on the working body, the debate, when the Liberal Democracy prohibits the invitation of the Attorney General, the President of the State Audit Commission, the President of the Board of Directors of Telekom, Mobileel, the President of the Council of LDS, Gregor Golobič, the former Director of Telekom, the President of the Post Office of Slovenia and so on. How the specific debate should take place [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u90	My friend Peca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u91	if, on the one hand, you demand content and on the other hand, you prevent this same content by forbidding that in this house, in the home working body, despite the business possibility, you encounter such matters. [[...]] I will continue, I obviously do not have enough time, as part of the presentation of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u92	The proposers were given 90 minutes. The entire debate will be held for almost 14 hours. I think that's enough time. I will now first invite the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, who, as the competent body of the National Assembly, has considered the proposal for a 2nd item of the agenda. President Lavrinc, would you like a word? Okay. You have 5 minutes to further explain the report. And since you're on your way to say that every single one of us happens so much that no one is perfect, I am and there's also a little chatty, I am and there's also a phone call, although we all know it's not polite to disturb, not to phone, not to read newspapers, and I would ask that we try to abstain from such behaviors or at least act in a way that we don't disturb the performers. This applies to all of us. Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The report prepared after the meeting of the Committee shall be prepared with particular care by the members of the Committee, and I myself shall endeavour to make at least the main reference to what should be mentioned in the report at the meeting of the State Assembly itself. Of course, it does not have everything that is going on on the committee itself, and I will therefore allow myself to point out what is in the report perhaps slightly superficially in these five minutes available to me. In the report - that is, it is also a minor point for the committee. This is a report, material: issues, corruption, etc. In the supplementary explanation it is necessary to find out, the summary in the report on the first and second pages is very correct. [[..]] I would also point to the second part, the other side being said, where the emphasis is on what needs to be highlighted in the opinion of the legislative and legal service. Indeed, it cautions, as has already been rightly pointed out by the proposers, that the proposals are conclusions [[One, two, three, four, etc.]] They also conclude and mention the fifth and sixth that they are unacceptable in such a form, and that is, I must say, in a way, the wisdom that is to be served if "he drinks water". The report then continues with what government representatives or individual ministries and representatives have said, namely, on the one hand, the judiciary, internal affairs, the Money Laundering Office and the representative of the Ministry of Information Society. Then, of course, there is a mannequin in the report. Why? Because, as one of the news outlets said, they came, said their stories, and left. They have done the following; they have proposed that, just as this has already done in this national assembly to our disaster - Mr President, and also not in your image that the entire national assembly has been put in the role of an investigative commission. You can't do that. Why isn't that done? Because such procedures violate human rights, fundamental human rights. That is why, of course, this new institute, when it is used, first mentioned the Constitution, we have it laid down in law and in the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigations and therefore I have decided as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy not to use what has been proposed in order to invite representatives of institutions to this meeting, as they have written, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 51. Now tell me, what is the institution of the LDS President of the Council, Gregor Golobic, or former director of Telekom Marjan Podobnik, or the President of the Post Office of the Republic of Slovenia Alfonz Pogorelc! Of course I am, so I've estimated that I'm not going to invite these people to such a meeting, because I'm going to change, I'm going to say, an internal policy committee meeting with some kind of investigative committee. In doing so, I always remember some famous words that were not officially spoken, but they remained well in my ears and, of course, according to most of the Slovenians: "You will not be my afen guncal." So if we want this National Assembly and also the Committee on Internal Policy to do the right thing and to say so to us, the reputation will increase or at least remain where it is, then we cannot, of course, allow everyone to remember every procedure to use it as it does. Now I'm going to tell you something else. For fuck's sake, read the tape. See, Mr Janez Janša used 40 minutes at a meeting of the committee to complement the presentation of the position of the initiators and are substantive. It says what repeats here twice, but it's content: Mr. Pece talked about nothing for 15 minutes - read it, read it! Nothing! And thank God then at least he finished Dr. Bajuk, who added the contents for another five minutes. I will say that, as long as I lead this committee, I will not allow "afen guncat" and will endeavour as chairman of the committee to reach conclusions that are legal, that the board's meetings do not turn into a burlesque, mainly for viewers and viewers on television. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u94	After 90 minutes have been available to the applicants and when we have heard a brief supplementary explanation of the proposal for material, the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, my colleague Lavrinz, the government now has 90 minutes. Would you please tell me in what order, because I hear it won't be just one? So more of you will perform in these 90 minutes. Okay. Who's first? Will you, Dr. Gantar? Please, Dr. Gantar, Minister, you're first, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u95	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We're rehearsing the drill we've already had, but it's okay. Of course, Parliament is a place where any relevant social problem can and must be discussed, any relevant political problem and any relevant economic problem, if it has dimensions that affect the lives of all. And Parliament is a place to talk about corruption. But how, in how corruption is discussed, how Parliament can use its constitutional role, its political role to contribute to something that we could say is a common social goal, that corruption, if we cannot eradicate it, is as limited as possible, and that customerism is as little as possible. Can this be done by drawing on some examples that are such or different as those involved, some advocate, while others strongly oppose them? Whether Parliament puts them in the place they are going, and in the parliamentary debate the views that those systemic, political, legislative and political dimensions that should be complemented should be changed so that we can have a more successful fight against corruption, so that we can have a healthier society and that we can have more equal opportunities for all. This question will not be answered by the government because it is not up to Parliament to give such teachings. You will answer this question yourself, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament. Does this debate, including today's, help to clear up problems or, in fact, must I say this, contribute to reducing the reputation of Parliament and also of politics as a whole? To this question, as I said, you will answer yourself. But it is most likely that those who follow us, watch us, read us and listen to us will answer that question, regardless of how we or you answer that question. Corruption - there is no society in which corruption is not present, neither in history nor today. Corruption and customerism are a serious problem that no society can blind its eyes to, no regulated society can understand, unregulated companies close their eyes. But problems in this area cannot be solved according to the principle of 'keep the thief!"as this is usually the case with those who have been involved in such and other ingenuity in one way or another. [[Back-up advertising.]] Like I said, Mr. President, there's no need to interrupt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u96	There's no dispute in the bench, and that goes for every speaker, including you, Minister. You have the right not to be disturbed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u97	So I don't have a problem with that and I'm glad to have a response from the gym because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u98	You can't derail yourself from the bench. You have the right to remain undisturbed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u99	Parliament's dialogue dimension is strengthened by this, and I have no problem with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u100	No, no, the minister only, if you allow, have no right of colleagues to disturb you during your speech, you have no duty to answer their interlocutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u101	Then I can't give you that right. [[...]] Oh. K. It is certainly clear that it is important that the rules laid down are clear that they have been implemented as far as is consistent everywhere, even in more developed societies, there is no separation between economy and politics; that the justice system takes matters into its own hands and bring them in - and I believe it will - that my colleagues will - lead to the end - and so will we corruption, and no society is and will not completely eliminate it. The question is, where can we be brought by programming and inquisitorial logic, which also contains a document that is the subject of today's debate, which I think is as bad as the previous one, that people are guilty before they're convicted of being guilty because I want to, but above all the threats against managers that can be successful, reminds me of the times that I thought they were long gone. As I said, we need to get to know this fact, maybe I'm also speaking as a sociologist not only as a politician, maybe as a politician I shouldn't say it, we need to get to know the fact that fraud and thievery, as you say, have happened, are happening, are happening and are still going to happen. The question is, how do we match them? The question is to what extent can we put in place social mechanisms to limit them. And there's an important difference between how I look at this question and how both of you are looking at it - I'm going to ignore the third because it's not in the hall - the main introductory. I'll say I'm following up on the theory that Friedrick Hayek put in place. I believe that social order is evolutionary, I believe that it cannot be planned in advance to the last detail and prevent all possible mistakes, I believe that planning such a social system, which will prevent all possible mistakes in advance, will lead to a totalitarian regime, which has shown in several of its books, and I believe that the social system is scrupulous, complementary and variable - so evolutionary. I also believe this, I must say quickly, before Mr Bayuk leaves, I also believe that such a system must learn from its own mistakes and that it must make appropriate corrections. That is why I think that this is the path by which we can better fight corruption and eliminate the dangers that follow it. I'd like to point out one more thing. When we talk about corruption and customerism, it seems to us that this is expected at a level between the authorities, those in power, between - if you want - ministers, state secretaries, members of the leading parties and, let's say, what I know - the economic sphere; that this is expected because they have power, reputation, they share money, so today we have also heard. Of course, money doesn't share as much as some people imagine - at least I've never seen it share. And that this is the main form of corruption. That's the expected corruption. This is where we're looking for her. I remind you that corruption is also where we are not looking for it and that it is where we do not expect it. If there is a positive power of power, there is also, if you want, a negative power of the opposition. Did anyone look at the opposition’s negative power and see what was there that could lead to corruption? I'm going to tell you that in these performances I've been tracking the elements myself today, I might say, certain clienteleism. So that you can get a close look at where a certain reading goes, where it comes from, and who's behind it. In the telecommunications sphere this is very clear and very transparent, competition is sharp, ruthless, the blows fly over the belt and the sole. And there's something in there. But I'm not going to tell anyone because it's a segment of politics. All I know is I'm not gonna let that happen in my own field. What other people do is their business. My colleagues will talk about how the system works. As far as developmental problems and depressed regions are concerned, I must say that if the problem of depressed regions could be solved in this way, as it was presented here, that depressed regions and developmental problems, in the development of Slovenia, would be caused by, I don't know, corruption at TAMU or the money that was spent and the money that was so often in the TAMU, if this is a mechanism for resolution, then I must say that we have found a universal answer to one of the most pressing issues of regional development, but I am afraid that if this can be a suitable object of criticism of the government - I admit, as the government can well be criticised why not - but the policy to solve the depressed regions is not. In this way, you will not save any region, nor any company. As far as I'm concerned, here today is an example of the story of the falco and this "talk track" - if I'm not mistaken, these are two names. I see a different story. Should I tell her? I think it makes no sense for me to tell this same story; that I would now present the story that Mr Janša presented, another story that is completely different. Let them say it. I'm not responsible for that segment Janša presented, not for what I know. Let those who are actors in this game introduce him. And I have to say, I'm very interested in how this thing is going to end. After what I know, it can happen that those who have presented the matter as presented by Mr Janša will be able to smile badly, badly. [[The ad from the bench.]] No, I won't, because it's what I am. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u102	There's no dispute with the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u103	Once again, I warn you that I can, if I may. I'm not going to introduce this because I don't agree to this logic, that's the difference. But all I know is that it's two different systems; I know that one is more connected to, I would say, vehicle protection, and the other is to monitor and manage vehicles, and I know that one system that was ready for marketing didn't go into marketing because it had major problems in testing; and a lot of other things. But, well, I think that these things are for the commission of inquiry, why not, but I would hardly say that me and Mr Janez Janša or anyone else in here can judge two products, two technological products. Yeah, what are we? A room for, I don't know, information technology and applications? We can't judge that, and that's what other people are talking about. I'm not going to judge the technology products in the National Assembly alone. With regard to the issue of social property and what Mr Bayuk said, I must say that I am disappointed about this segment of the discussion, which, apart from us known and, of course, in the 1990s, has brought nothing quite new about the fate of the socialist transition and ownership. When we went into transition, we knew that certain things were going to happen and we knew that everyone wasn't going to get through as well, that's the fact that if you wanted or didn't want to. And it was us, the LDS, who, in fact, had the most against domestic ownership, that we were very critical of domestic ownership - remember? We were very critical until this free distribution in this way of certificates, because we knew that it was not possible to share only the wealth, that we also had to share the social loss if you want. And then a lot of people didn't think about it - governments have always been coalition everywhere. It is so sad that there was no breakthrough in the analysis of what happened to the changes in Slovenia, that there was no higher level. I might as well ask another question. What did the privatisation of dwellings according to housing law mean by the prescribing policy? What did the restoration and return in nature mean so consistent, both in nature and in nature, to denationalising beneficiaries? Even Germany has not done so in such radical form. How many of these are - I don't know, but I'm also asking a question. Let someone - I hope that economists will once be able to answer - what are these major systemic changes in ownership, privatisation, reforms of local self-government, to what extent and when they have hampered, and when they have accelerated social development. But this is a question to be answered on the basis of some data, analyses, but not only with the pre-eminence of political parties. It's too small, it can be nice, but it's too small. The material presented by the initiators of the extraordinary meeting and the field of telecommunications is, of course, neither reset nor reset compared to the previous extraordinary meeting, but is, together with unrealistic claims, half-truths and tendentious introductions, an indication which has been literally copied into the material for today's session. As I have already mentioned, I will not follow the motioners' example, and therefore I will not repeat what I said at the previous meeting, when I believe I have justifiably rejected their findings and more than that, even the way these sensitive and important social issues are addressed. The material then and today is based on the assumption that the situation in telecommunications is poor, that it is poorly developed, that telecommunications lagging and possibly wider, in the field of information society, the extension of competition, corruption and customerism. And secondly, it is assumed that the LDS was the one who, over the past decade, drilled and dressed in telecommunications, that it is its political domain and is therefore responsible for the situation as it is. This first assumption was particularly substantiated by one of the applicants, Mr Janša, in the conclusion of the previous meeting. I couldn't answer him myself because there wasn't enough time. None of the claims match the truth. If, in the field of telecommunications and wider, the information society service is indeed dominated or dominated by such corruption, such clienteleism and, as they want to prove in the media the applicants of this extraordinary meeting, then Slovenia, at the level of telecommunications and information society development, would not be where, according to the digital access index of the first quarter of the most developed countries, even before certain permanent members of the European Union, together with Germany, France, I think, even before Ireland, in this case, the digital access index even before Ireland. In particular, there has been considerable progress in recent years when the LDS took responsibility for government telecommunications policy for the first time since 2000. So after 2001, the proportion of people using the Internet increased from 30% to 47%. [[The EU average is 56%. Years ago, we were lagging far behind.]] . The proportion of households with Internet access has increased from 24 to 45, today is probably 50 [[Previous data was for January 2004]] . The rapid growth of broadband, I'm just kidding a little bit, before we're ready to make broadband policy, we'll have them. Not to mention the 85% penetration of mobile telephony, mobile data services, mobile Internet, pay and so on [[Vodafone, Mobile]] . The prices of all these services are favourable. Indeed, this would not have happened in an area where everything would have been corrupt. Why would this happen? The main thesis of the proponents is that corruption and clientism hinder economic development. Corruption and customerism in telecommunications hamper the development of telecommunications. We can prove to you that the development of telecommunications is exemplary. It would be even better if you were even better, even taller, but that's a pretty good one. Of course, the prices of these services are favourable, as I mentioned, as a result of relatively tight competition, except in the field of fixed, domestic telephony and internet access via ADSL, which is actually the subject of action and the agency and the ministry to the extent that it can act. Of course, much remains to be done. I'm not gonna brag. Much has to be compensated for, all that has been delayed in recent years, when the LDS ministers have not formed information policies, but ministers, state secretaries from other parties or political options. This brings me to the second point where the LDS rules in telecommunications. By 2001 LDS had neither the Secretary of State nor the Minister responsible for this area. It has had an impact, like other coalition parties, in the design of supervisory boards and administrations, Telekom as a public company, but has never prevailed. As I recall as a member of the previous government, in the mid-1990s and early 1990s we argued a lot about GSM's mobile phone service, where they were late - I said this the last time - we were among the last, and we were able to prevent the idea of taking mobile phones to a purely private company and preventing Telekom from providing mobile services in a subsidiary or directly. And just that, imagine how valuable Telekom would be today if he didn't develop his mobile phone -- a little bit more than a little larger municipal company. The fact that Mobil is a successful company today is, first of all, a reason for gratitude, not an extraordinary session and a conviction. It was not until 2001, when we assumed this responsibility for telecommunications policy that it happened in two, three years more than in ten years: from legislation to market opening, to the establishment of an independent regulator [[...]] [[The feedback from the bench.]] I'm talking about what we did and what I'm answering. The Nobel Prize is awarded for other things, Mr Jerovšek. You're gonna have to put this somewhere else. However, the process of liberalisation is a conflict, but it is under way. We're not happy with what we've achieved. However, important developments have been made in the arrival of smaller operators to telecom infrastructure in recent months with a reference offer for operators. In criticism, it is important to distinguish between legitimate complaints against the conduct of a traditional operator, criticisms of the efficiency of the agency and, of course, critics who in fact expose powerlessness and inability to fight on the market, there is something like that. What if some of the critics or the problems they have brought out are not faced by those who are disappointed because they failed to make offers? In public procurement, it's just the way it is with the government. These tenders go according to the law on public procurement, they go from state money, they go according to the law on public procurement other than those public contracts, in these parts wins usually only one company, there are 10 companies, one is satisfied, nine are dissatisfied. And that's just a fact. Because this type of debate is happening, of course those who do not get, clearly, are trying to politically capitalise certain stories and such stories are happening here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister Gantar. Which one of the government's representatives or representatives wants a word now? Dr. Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. I suggest that the dialogue runs without such in place calls, everyone has the right to speak, 11 hours more is before us. Please, Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. I would like to present some information on how the phenomena that are the subject of today's hearing are resisted by the Slovenian police with a statement and comments on some specific cases, which are also mentioned by the proponents in your material. Before I do that, allow me a brief replica of the claim made by Mr Bayuk. Mr Bajuk, I have never been a member of Markovic's government, I have never been a Vice-President or Minister of Markovic's government. What you said, it's just not true, it's not true, it's not true. What you said in the conversational language, people call it a lie. I don't know, you said that on a jumper basis, but you linked it to your argument regarding the ownership of Markovic's shares and the like. Not that all your arguments have failed in this regard when you have told this lie, but probably Slovenian people will be able to judge the credibility of all our claims. What inclinations lead you to tell lies, only you know, but this is probably a possible political, speculative, insulting accusation related to reasoning or simply ignoring historical facts because you could not prepare for this debate; you have simply been deceived and you have been deceived by the Slovenian public by this. Of course, it is partly possible to correct this information, depending on how we judge such motives. The Slovenian police have been preparing radically for the events that we are dealing with today for years, precisely because we entered a completely different economic and political environment in the early 1990s, into the new property system, the major reforms introduced by this country at the beginning of our independence. On the contrary, the competence of the Slovenian police in the fight against economic crime was monitored. Last year, too, the Slovenian government adopted a strategy to combat economic crime, which is also largely aimed at combating corruption, both in the field of economy and elsewhere. This strategy provides the basis for the employment of 20 new economic criminals. 10 of these are already employed; another 10 are already under tendering procedure and we will soon get new jobs. With this we have significantly increased the qualification structure and gradually, in the long term, we train the Slovenian Criminal Police to deal with these phenomena, which are constantly evolving. The Slovenian Government has also supported the strategy of combating economic crime through additional financial resources used in the procurement of new communication, computer and other means used by the criminal police. New educational forms have been established, regular forms of coordination and communication have been established between all detection and prosecution authorities, including the authorities organised by the Government for these purposes - the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the fight against corruption and the like. Strong coordination, continuous training, new employment or human resources, acquisition of new resources, all of this is aimed at a more effective fight against corruption. All of this is an expression of the strong belief of the Slovenian government that it is necessary to deal with these negative phenomena in a qualitative manner and also with quality staff. I would like to introduce to you some of the very specific cases that you also mention and inform you of where the Slovenian police have come in investigating, investigating these phenomena. I am confident, however, that you will receive further information from the Justice Minister, who has information on how the prosecution, or the general justice, subsequently acted. I believe that in doing so you will take into account that certain information is detrimental to the continuation of the criminal procedure, and therefore those who are such nature are deliberately leaking. However, I am polarising and rejecting the claim that these are affairs that have never been experienced, as you say, by the proponents, of a judicial epilogue. I submit that most of the cases you mention have been investigated and investigated by Slovenian police and have acted accordingly. Red Cross. In the period from 9 May 2002 to 29 November 2002, the Criminal Police in the Red Cross case against those responsible for the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana jointly filed 11 criminal complaints, namely 7 for the offence of abuse of the position under Article 244 KZ and 4 for offences of unjustified use under Article 246 KZ. These are offences relating to the undue lending of funds, the sale of real estate and other unjustified or unlawful payments. Therefore, according to the rules on criminal procedure and the law on police, the Slovenian police investigated this case and also concluded it with the number of criminal charges mentioned above. It's Elan. In the Elan case, the criminal police filed several criminal charges against the District State Prosecutor's Office in Kranj between 1993 and 1994 for suspicions of a crime of abuse of position or rights under Article 244 of KZ. An indictment has also been filed; as you proceed, you will hear from the Justice Minister. In 2004, the Criminal Police also dealt with payments of contested awards to the management bodies of Elan. It's still in the predictive process. In this regard, the Criminal Police submitted two partial reports to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana in February and April 2004. Example Friday. We have also reported this case to the National Assembly and to the Slovenian public all the time. In short, in September 2003, criminal police, following a thorough and professionally difficult investigation into the attempted murder of journalist Mir Petk and on the basis of the direction of the state prosecutor in Maribor, seized the liberty, as is known to the public, of seven persons who were duly suspected of that crime. Persons deprived of their liberty are suspected of being involved in the organisation and execution of the attempted murder under Article 127 of the Penal Code. However, in the District Court of Murska Sobota, criminal proceedings against persons under way are pending. Criminal police, in cooperation with the Maribor District Attorney's Office, continue their activities in order to identify the other circumstances and identify the persons who led the accused to the attempted murder of journalist Mir Petk. A fund to build a new pediatric clinic. In January 2003, the criminal police against the responsible person of the fund for the construction of the new paediatric clinic filed a criminal complaint for the crime of unjustified use under Article 246 of the KZ. The appeal relates to the alleged illegal lending of funds that the responsible person has lent to a third party, contrary to internal acts or without adequate insurance, in this case to an economic company. Municipality of Ljubljana. In April 2004, the Criminal Police received an audit report on the review of the accounts in the municipality of Ljubljana. In cooperation with the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, the matter is in the forecasting process or in the process of collecting notices. We have excluded several cases from the very extensive audit report so far which give rise to suspicions of the crime of abuse of the official position under Article 261 of the KZ by officials - this is what the police say in their report. It's SIB. In February 2003, the Criminal Police received a request from the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana to collect information on suspected charges of criminal services when purchasing a majority share of the Slovenian Investment Bank, a public limited company in Ljubljana. As a result, the General Police Administration established a special working group, which filed its first criminal complaint against the person responsible at the SIB bank as early as July 2003. The sentence referred to the alleged offences in the operation of the bank, the classification of claims into credit rating classes and the consequent modification of the bank’s performance. The complaint was accompanied by 52 different annexes, which only leads to a very complex and comprehensive investigation process. On 1.7.2003, an interim report was also submitted to the District Attorney's Office on the collected notifications and on the analysis of the particular documentation relating only to the execution of the purchase of the bank by the public energy company, accompanied by as many as 74 different annexes. The Special Working Group continued to collect notices and, in December 2003, filed a second criminal complaint against the responsible person of the public energy company with the District Attorney's Office. The indictment was accompanied by 110 different annexes. The criminal police are continuing to collect notifications on the SIB case. It's Orion. We have also reported on this matter. In short, in 1999 and 2000, the police filed a widespread criminal complaint against several persons against the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana for the suspicion of criminal offences under Article 254 of the Criminal Code, further for the purposes of falsification of Article 256, illicit production and trafficking of weapons or explosives under Article 310. The suspicions of these crimes have been investigated since 1997. From 2002 to January 2004, the Orion police filed four more criminal complaints and four reports related to the lending of loans. The highest number of complaints received by citizens was in 2003 and in early 2004, so far 66 different complaints of this kind involving the suspicion of criminal services allegedly committed since 1999. Therefore, the General Police Administration has set up a special working group which has justified suspicions up to this stage so that it can make a proposal to issue house investigation orders and carry out these house investigations on the basis of a court order. Police collect notices of various offences, including offences of fraud under Article 217 of KZ, denial under Article 219 and other offences. The real guy. Since the beginning of 2003, criminal police have received 7 reports of suspicious criminal services. In April 2004, the Criminal Police of the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana had already filed two reports and criminal charges against three legal and responsible persons for suspected crime of fraud under Article 234a of the KZ in connection with the hiring of loans. The forecasting process directs the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, and the criminal police continue to collect notices. The insurance company Triglav. During the period from 3 July 2003 to 30.4.2003, the Ljubljana Police Administration, the Criminal Police Office, filed 5 criminal complaints against those responsible at the Triglav Insurance Office, 4 for the offence of abuse of the position after 244. KZ and one offence of fraud under the 217th Penal Code. They relate to irregularities in the acquisition of a listed company and to illegal payments for various works and services. You also ask the applicants about Pompa. In this case, the bankruptcy manager, Pompe d.o.o., carried out several house investigations in March 2004 and seized larger amounts of documentation. The review of the dossier indicated a number of suspicions of the various offences. The matter is very extensive and still in the forecasting process. It's Ultra. In early 2001, the Ljubljana Police Department received an anonymous notification from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering stating that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik was to be transferred from GIB Concrete MTO d.o.o. in 1999. Spent a billion 200 million budget resources, which should also be used for the purchase of one facility. The anonymity also shows the personal links between the companies Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik d.o.o., Ultra d.o.o. and GIB Concrete MTO d.o.o. As a result of the collection of a report by CSI officials, Ljubljana found that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik financed himself in 1999. Only through the adoption of a law on the gradual closure of the mine and the development restructuring of the region since 2000 have certain budgetary resources been provided by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of all these findings, a report was submitted to the District State Prosecutor’s Office on 10.10.2003 explaining that there was no evidence of a crime in this regard. So much for the brief information in the specific cases you are asking for. I would like to make a few more comments on the material, especially in the part where the individual statements do not correspond to the truth, the following. First time. On page 6, the purchase of a police boat is also mentioned among cases that, according to the applicants, have never received a judicial epilogue. Here's what I have to say. On this issue, a criminal conviction was filed two years ago, which was investigated and has been dismissed in the light of the findings of the investigation procedure, i.e. on the basis of dropped complaints, as is not known. The case therefore received its epilogue, but, of course, at different political levels, it has repeatedly been argued for, as in today's case, the state of corruption in this country. We have also demonstrated several times in this National Assembly that there have been no irregularities in this regard, and we have placed such and other applicants on hold with evidence in this regard. Again and again, this media attractive topic is being restored; of course, without evidence, without documentation, in mind, which is certainly not possible to have a judicial epilogue. Of course, I invite all those who know that any crime has been committed or any irregularity in this regard to present them in an reasoned manner to the Ministry of Internal Affairs or directly to the prosecution, to prosecute if they consider that they have grounds for doing so. To this day, no one who repeatedly asserts political standards has ever presented such a statement. I invite him to submit this documentation so that he does not remain at the level of a cheap, uncommitted political debate. On page 12, the Ministry of the Interior is also mentioned among companies or institutions that have cooperated with Ultra. Mr Janez Janša has already apologized today because one ministry or some agency has said too much, he is likely to do the same in the case of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior has never concluded any contracts with Ultra, we have made special efforts with our computers and have looked into all the records that have been in existence since 1999, but the Ministry of the Interior does not have a contract with Ultra. If you have such a contract, please submit it. On page 13 is the last paragraph, which reads as follows: "After a survey by the Ministry of the Interior conducted by the Faculty of Social Sciences among the senior public officials of the Slovenian State Administration, the Ministry of the Interior is one of the client-defined leading officials, etc. " These figures, which are listed below, are not relevant to the statement I am about to make. There is no MNZ research on these issues, there is no such thing as fiction, there is no MNZ research to be carried out by the Faculty of Social Sciences. Those who know more about bringing evidence in this regard. We have checked at the Faculty of Social Sciences, of course even in its own records, and there is no MNZ research, so of course all the arguments in this regard do not have any credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u106	There's more than three quarters of an hour left for the government. Who wants a word now? Minister? Minister Zdenka Cerar, Minister of Justice will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Allow me, on behalf of the judicial institutions, to provide an adequate explanation of the material we have received, with the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court, the Attorney's Office, the Notariat, the Attorney General's Office in front of us. These are the institutions which the Ministry of Justice has in its composition. When we talk about corruption and customerism, of course, these are two expressions that in some direct way represent social phenomena, but when we think about corruption in a legal sense, which is dealt with by the judicial institutions, they are in fact only two acts in a pure sense: an act and taking gifts or bribes. However, I understand that before the National Assembly, those phenomena, which, either because of their immorality, unethicality, violate certain rules in general view, are considered to be so dangerous that they are considered corrupt. In order to understand me better, I will begin to consider one of these, such as the Red Cross. This affair, as it is called, is included in corruption and clientism, and I must point out that the State Prosecutor's Office, after receiving the allegations referred to by Minister Bohinc, has gone into six criminal proceedings - none of them bears the legal definition of the act or the taking of bribes. So we requested an investigation in Ljubljana, before the Ljubljana District Court, against two persons for the crime of abuse of official status and rights and for unjustified use. Because of the abuse of the situation, we requested an investigation and we failed against two people because the Court felt that the humanitarian organisation could not carry out economic activities and we went to a request for the protection of the legality to verify it. I refer to this case because the National Assembly, on the basis of this case and other initiatives, has already adopted an amendment to the Penal Code this year, which limits or extends more precisely these concepts, which fall within the criminal offence of bribery. In Cyprus, the District Attorney's Office has brought charges against two female workers in connection with the same operation of the Red Cross for falsifying documents, for concealing, i.e. entirely other criminal acts. And we have another crime at the stage of an investigation from the same area of the Red Cross, which is the name of fraud. So there are so many different legal definitions for action that we today see as corruption. And it's the same in other cases. If I continue with the report; in the Elan case, Dr Rado Bohinc presented the case in which there was an outdated case because the judge did not produce the judgment in due time. In this case, the indictment was filed and a multi-year prison sentence imposed. So the case is known. However, I think that you had in mind another case in this paper, which was launched on the initiative of the Ambassador of Magi. Janez Drobnič and filed it with the prosecution, 23.1.2003. In this case, the Attorney General's Office carried out an analysis of the documentation received and provided the District Attorney's Office with the material on the basis of which the forecasting procedure is now under way. It's in the police phase and it's not over yet. Friday's case is in court. An indictment has been filed, it is pending, and five persons are being charged, as you know. We haven't found the subscribers yet, or the case is still in the discovery phase at the police station. The new Ljubljana Bank, Sigma. On this matter, the prosecution has not received any complaint and has not dealt with it. With regard to the operation of the Fund for the Construction of a New Paediatric Clinic, an indictment has been lodged against two persons for the crime of unjustified use. In fact, the funds of the pediatric clinic were unlawfully lent to private companies, which of course is not in line with the rules. There hasn't been a hearing. Viator & Vector is not being dealt with, but there was a rather intense activity in the matter, which is referred to in the report of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Deloitte & Touche’s audit house thoroughly checked the city’s operations with several aspects and made a management statement. It was discussed in interdepartmental form, interdisciplinaryly and under the direction of the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, and is now conducting a forecasting procedure within the police activities. I have been involved in this interdisciplinary consultation and I must say that the work of the audit house has been extremely thorough and that, on this basis, the congregation itself has been able to make certain changes in its business. SIB had finally had an epilogue or had his appearance before the court. The Prosecutor's Office has filed an indictment against two persons for a criminal offence of forgery of business documents and has requested an investigation into the abuse of one person's position. The Orion case has enormous dimensions and, as was said, was therefore assigned to a group of state prosecutors for specific cases. The order stated: "After the content of the criminal cases or information received so far before the criminal proceedings, it is suspected that legal or natural persons have committed either fraud, extortion, business fraud or tax evasion in the context of the criminal activity in question. The perpetrators acted in a related manner and became involved in international contacts with international banking institutions, while the activity was carried out throughout the territory of Slovenia. In view of this, it is estimated that in this case the crime was assessed as organised crime and the case was given to the group. However, in order for the detection not to take too long, it had to be borne in mind that several cases had already taken place at a later stage when the elements on which the District Attorneys' Offices had individually been able to work were known. And so the New City District Attorney's Office in one of Orion's cases has requested an investigation into the crime of fraud against two responsible persons and against a legal person. This is how Orion works in two different stages: partly in the district prosecutors and partly within the group. As Dr Bohinc said, the police have organised a special specialised unit working on this, due to the scope of the documentation, which naturally requires a lot of study and therefore a longer time. The State Prosecutor's Office has received no notice of any criminal offence of any kind. In fact, several complaints have been filed with Zbiljska Gaj by working organisations, as well as private individuals, and the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana reports that the last addition to the complaint has arrived on 13.5.2004 and that a decision will, of course, be taken within a reasonable period of three months. Let me stress that today there has been a lot of talk about citizens being harmed by loans to banks and loans, and that these cases have not responded, that there has also been a request for an investigation in the case of Sicura against three persons, namely, two local areas where detection has taken place, Postojna and Ljubljana, and the timetable is expected from the court. Second case, operating tables. An investigation was requested against five persons in the District Court in Ljubljana for the abuse of the situation and for the forgery of the documents. The procedure is in progress. Insurer Triglav is in the phase of the complaint received by the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana against two persons for a crime of abuse of the position and against another person from another labour or economic organization for the same crime. It's a decision-making phase. In the Ericsson case, I reported at a previous meeting that we have inquiries at Eurojust, further to the Swedish State Prosecutor's Office and the Swiss State Prosecutor's Office. Both institutions of these two countries are considering the operation of this company. And from all three cities we were told responsiblely that in Slovenia we will immediately receive a notification if it is found that Slovenian citizens or Slovenian companies are involved in the crimes or illegal conduct. The District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, which is in charge of this predictive procedure, or in fact we cannot tell him who is leading the information on whether or not there will be criminal proceedings, has not yet been informed. And if I can take this opportunity to point out that they have been working on this issue, as we have heard in the previous meeting, a direct report, deep down in the police investigation since last year, is said to be more than one year, and so far no state assembly has been found in Switzerland or Sweden, and no one has ever found to play police or to push anyone to decide quickly and to do one way or another. In this case, I think we can ask ourselves whether it is right to be so strict and so judged in justice in the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, it will be necessary to consider, as already mentioned today by the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, where the borders of one, other and third authorities are. Of course, the Ministry of Justice has also dealt with certain matters on its lines. And if I touch the bankruptcy managers with respect to Pompé. On the one hand, the District Attorney's Office ordered the police to collect data on the suspicion of a crime of abuse of official position and of business fraud, and the Ministry of Justice, within its powers, requested a report from the Court and found out what the actual situation was, further from the court, the higher court in Maribor required professional supervision, which was also introduced. The president of the Maribor District Court announced that the bankruptcy managers were immediately instructed to take care of the return of the money to the bankruptcy masses and order it to be charged to banks and savings banks. Three of these bankruptcy managers resigned and were dismissed and one was suspended. In this case, sanctions have been carried out in respect of the official aspect and the Ministry of Justice will receive a report on official supervision. Also on the Zbilijski Gaj case, which takes place on one side before the prosecution and the police, and the Ministry of Justice ordered the Notary Chamber to review the operation of the Notary Boris Lepše and, on the basis of the findings of this review, proposed the introduction of a disciplinary procedure against the appointed notary. The findings in this process have prompted changes to the Notariat Act, which will now be on your desks, which increases control, which gives better opportunities to look into their work and ensure a higher level of expertise. The State Attorney's Office also took note of its point of view of the Ministry of Justice in the same case, and we also had a personal conversation with affected citizens and other organisations in order to determine whether it is possible to contribute something along the administrative line to a quicker and better interpretation of the matter. The case is brought before a court in civil proceedings and, on the basis of a recommendation, is dealt with as a matter of priority. I must also point out that in Orion's case, the Ministry of Justice has tabled a proposal to introduce a disciplinary procedure against two notaries, because it has been found that Orion's operation was largely, to say the case, unfairly and unknowingly precisely because of the lack of attention and failure to comply with the legitimate obligations of the notaries. Today, property was also mentioned at this assembly, in connection with the report of the State Prosecutor's Office in 1999. If we looked at the reports of the State Prosecutors for the years from 1999 to last year, we would find that the annual report has a special chapter, which is called 'property'. Let me briefly say that let us not forget that until 1993 this area was fully open, that Marković's law was in force, under which profit could be divided without rules. And despite the warnings of the legal profession, the National Assembly then reacted somewhat late, so those cases ended in failure by 1993. If you recall the statement made by my predecessor, Mr Drobnič, he said that the SDK audit reports were a paper that was not worth the content on which it was written. It was some sort of parable that was consistent with the truth. The audit reports were accurate business reports but could not summarise those elements which could constitute a criminal complaint because each report had to be reviewed from this point of view. And, of course, it happened that things had gone away, that the fact-finding had been going on for several years, and so were the procedures. Velana was one of these procedures. The initiative for a careful assessment of this matter is given by the man, Jože Praprotnik, whose secret is not because he is extremely committed to sanctioning the irregularities he sees in the ownership and operation of this company. I must say that the State Prosecutor's Office followed his allegations that an investigation was lodged against the responsible person of this company, but that the investigation was rejected, including by legal authority, even after a complaint was lodged with the higher court. This was also the case in a number of other cases, partly for these objective reasons, which I mentioned at the outset. However, each case has its own specialities and cannot be placed on the common denominator and therefore ownership is a chapter that needs to be looked at in detail from close; one possibility is the annual reports of the state prosecutors. I thank you for your attention and I assure you that the judicial institutions are working and that I have had personal conversations with their leaders, from the first to the last stage, and everyone is willing to improve this picture that is damaging us this third pillar of justice, these are judicial backlogs. About how and when, and the second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word of Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I would like to stop in the research mentioned in the paper, it is a research of the Institute for Management from Switzerland and on the basis of which you then conclude on the issues of corruption and clientism in Slovenia. First of all, I would like to point out the fact that there are certain methodological shortcomings in this study. These methodological shortcomings were not discussed only by the Prime Minister, Mag. Robbery, not only will I speak today, but they are talking about the author of this research from Slovenia. This research was carried out for Slovenia by the Institute for Economic Research and the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana. It follows from this study that respondents have very poorly assessed the effectiveness of the supervisory boards and the credibility of managers. The main message of this study is that Slovenia is very poor in those factors where the evaluations were obtained on the basis of the survey, so managers asked how they assess Slovenia's competitiveness by individual factor, and they had a scale of 1 to 5. Peter Stannik of the Institute of Economic Research believes that the difficulty in drawing up a scale is the balance between survey and market data or economic data and in choosing the size of samples in different countries, so I quote, "there is a need to evaluate results with a lot of scepticism". It follows from further findings that Slovenia’s economic performance, where we rank better than in previous years, has been safeguarded against poorer rankings, and it is interesting that this economic performance has been calculated mainly or obtained mainly on the basis of objective hard data and not on the basis of surveys. If that is not sufficient for you to support the matter, I could also quote the quote of the President of the administration of Mercury Binet Kordez, who literally states: "Our inclusion in the research of the IMD Institute is linked to the recognised self-criticism of the Slovenians. Our entrepreneurs in the polls prefer to respond even more black-sightedly, while in other countries, say, in the Czech Republic or Hungary, they praise all the weights." In short, if we are even more specific to show you on a specific case, what I am talking about. If you take productivity, Slovenia is 28th among 60 countries. If you take business practice, which is an evaluation based on the survey, we are in the 46th place. In this study, it is very interesting how countries grouped. They made a class of over 20 million and under 20 million. And if we look again at where Slovenia is bad. Employment. Total employment in millions. I'm stressing again. In millions. They compared two million Slovenia with millions of other countries. Gross domestic product in millions of dollars. We're in 56th place. Now let's look at the relative data. If you take relative data and take the export of commercial services, real growth, relatively expressed, we are in 9th place. If we were to re-export commercial services in millions of dollars, we're in 54th place. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about the objectivity of an individual research. Not anymore. We are saying that there are different studies showing different results. I can now show you another study, entitled "Corrorate readiness for Energy and Central Europe", says the readiness of Slovenian companies to expand the European Union. This is because this research shows very interesting that Slovenia, that Slovenian companies are best prepared to meet the requirements of the Single Market from all acceding countries. They are being followed by companies from Estonia and the Czech Republic. We could talk about that, too. We could also talk about Dan&Bradstreet, which ranks Slovenia among all the transition countries, still first in the business ratings. We could also talk about the results of a global economic forum that measured competitiveness and ranked Slovenia in its 30th place among 102 countries. The issue of corruption and clienteleism was also an integral part of this study. The survey is publicly available. We could talk about that, too. And this research shows, let's say, significantly better results. We could talk about the fact that we are all critical to the development of Slovenia, that we would like this development to be even more rapid, economic growth. We agree with that. But when we talk about the economic growth of last year being one of the lower, there being about 2.5%, we should be aware that all Western European economies have faced a recession. And that Slovenia exports more than 60% of its exports to the markets of the European Union, to Western European markets, that our most important partners are Germany, France, Italy, Austria, also Croatia. But clearly, if there is a recession in Germany, if economic growth is lower, this must also affect lower economic growth in Slovenia. And economic growth in Slovenia is constantly, for around 2% of the area's growth. We want this growth to be even higher, of course. This is why the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia for the period 2005-2013, which sets long-term baselines for the strategic restructuring of the Slovenian economy, also arises at this time. We could also talk about Slovenia’s overcoming Greece and Portugal, two existing members in the original 15 Member States of the European Union. When we talk about Ireland and other countries, we all want to forget that these countries have faced large state aids from Brussels, which amounted to up to 4% of gross domestic product. That Slovenia is in a specific situation when this "big bang" has taken place within ten, together ten countries and that this share of aid is possible there about 0.6% of the gross domestic product and that this is the limit that we are aware of. However, economic results, including expected growth, need to be assessed in this context. In short, what I would like to stress is if we are talking about these results, too, of this IMD study, which you are referring to, it is good to take objective hard economic data, where we are better classified and those obtained from surveys where we are less classified. Hold what I said is obviously problematic control of the control councils, obviously to some extent the credibility of the managers is problematic, so the managers themselves have assessed themselves, but all of this, even these factors, forgive me, the government can't really influence. Speaking of the question, Mr Bajuk raised the issue of the privatisation model in Slovenia. You were talking about how this model was worse than other transition countries and so on, and we all know that's not the case. If we are still comparing the model of privatisation in Slovenia with some other models in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, the Slovenian gradual privatisation, the so-called Gradalist approach, was less unfair than in other transition countries. Speaking of differences, we could also raise the issue of denationalisation and SOD. I hope to say that if there are differences between citizens, differences in property, these stem from the process of denationalisation, which has certainly caused the greatest differences and the greatest dispersion of Slovenian society, significantly more than anything you have talked about here today. We must be aware that these obligations are extremely high and that they will be settled by the Slovenian compensation company. As a result of the generous denationalisation law, Slovenian compensation companies face a large gap. For me today, the question is whether, even after it sells out the entire portfolio, it will be able to cover these obligations. Who's going to cover them, these obligations? And as a representative of the younger generation, I am absolutely not thrilled that they will be covered by all generations in the future. Some things would apply to that, too. When you were talking about internal shares, I have to say, I didn't understand that place. I don't know if you meant your own shares. You said "internal shares compared to book value". What are you thinking here, Mr. Bajuk? I don't know. If you were thinking about the internal value of the shares, then I agree. The internal value of the shares can be determined in different ways, by discounting the cash flow or by any other means. But it does not hold, sorry, does not hold that the internal value of the share is compared to the book value of the shares "a priori" some indicator of a certain economy. In both the US and Germany, you have well-known companies, where market value has also fallen firmly below the book value of both banking institutions and so-known companies from the so-called Internet sector. And in Slovenia you have a whole range of companies where the market value or, if you want, the internal value is significantly higher than the book value. This is not a criterion, and at this point I don't understand exactly what you mean. Now I don't want to open all the stories, because when I was reviewing the material, I somehow realized that a large part of the material is made according to the methodology of "edit, copy, paste" from the previous extraordinary session, so I wouldn't go into all of these questions. I see that there is a reoccurring problem of Ultra, which you are somehow exposing as evidence of inadequate state aid allocation. For the last time, in 2000, the Ministry of Economy’s public invitation to tender for pre-competitive research grants earned 103 companies totalling 737 million. Ultra got about four and a half million on this call. On the second call to promote the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, where 97 companies totalled 292 million 991 thousand, Ultra gained slightly less than 4 million. In a public invitation to tender to promote the export intensity of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2003, 65 companies acquired funds. On the invitation to tender for incentives for technological and development projects related to company research and development activities in 2003 and 2004, 98 companies received funding, Ultra again slightly below 3 million. And so on, in short, I don't list all things in detail. What I think is essential is that I would like all development aid to be used as efficiently as it has been in the case of Ultra, which is a medium-sized enterprise that is developing well, which is extremely important for the region, such as Zagorje, which we know in the past was a developing problem region. Perhaps Mr Švagan and I feel that today we are having a paradox to discuss the problem of Ultra. I'd like all companies to take advantage of aid just like Ultra. And I have already said that even if we are going to calculate the cost-benefit analysis, we will quickly find that the company has paid, in the form of taxes and contributions, not several times, but a few times more resources back to the budget than it has obtained these development aids. And I really don't see what the problem is here. I would like to always have the opportunity to defend development aid in such successful companies. You open the Orion case and ask questions. Indeed, Article 3 of the Consumer Credit Act also provides for exceptions to which credit contracts are not subject. It did not apply to credit contracts where the claimant’s claim was secured by mortgage, which meant that the legal basis for acting as a market inspector was given in respect of the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. Thus, any measure of market surveillance would be illegal in the case of a consumer loan against Orion. But when was this law passed? 8.8.2000. It's during your reign, Mr. Bajuk. It doesn't occur to me that I would be talking here about some conspiracy, that you did it purposely, that there was damage to Slovenian citizens and so on, because I know it wasn't like that, but it seems absurd to me that this story is now turning. This would also be an absurd way, and this marriage had a flaw. Like I said, it was adopted on August 8, 2000. This deficiency has, of course, been identified and resolved and clearly corrected and the market inspectorate has the competence to take appropriate action in similar measures in the future. If we are talking about these cases, we just need to be aware that in some way we are all in the same boat and we are fighting irregularities, including in the area of consumer credit, and that it is not about someone adopting a law that I would now like to cheat on a group of citizens and that similar affairs are also taking place in other developed European countries, which we are all facing. It is essential that, as soon as such deficiencies are detected, appropriate procedures are carried out and legislation is amended accordingly if the legislation is flawed. In short, as I said, in these answers, I really wouldn't want to go any further at this point, because I feel like I've talked a lot about this the last time, and I've answered it in detail. However, it seemed important to me to draw attention to some of these methodological irregularities that appeared in the material and, above all, to the fact that there were always one and the same things that were somehow repeated, which, as I have already mentioned, were answered. I have to say I'm relatively short in government. But I am, I think at the third extraordinary session. So at least after that, we'll probably be new ministers if we don't do something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u110	Time is enough to speak on behalf of the government, also by Mr Boštjan Penko, Director of the Anti-Corruption Office. And if there's another minute left, Minister Keber also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Good evening! If you believe it or not, some of us are still innocent and we have never had anything with politics, and we have nothing now, and I ask that you understand my words in this context. I don't want to be a lawyer or a ruling party or a ruling politician or an opposition. So there are two kinds of countries. One type of country is one that acknowledges that corruption exists in it and that corruption is a problem. And another type of country that doesn't admit it or deny it or not talk about it at all. But the fact is, corruption is a problem everywhere. Both in those countries that recognise this and in those that do not. And fortunately, Slovenia is one of the countries that also recognise that corruption exists and that corruption is a problem that needs to be addressed and must be addressed through all legitimate means. For this reason, because our country recognises this, it established a Anti-Corruption Office in 2001. I became his CEO myself. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made it possible to explore corruption in a professional way to the maximum extent possible in these three years of our existence and on this basis we have prepared some key measures, legislation and strategy that allow for a comprehensive long-term treatment of corruption by addressing its causes in our country and in our society. And if you look at what we have written down, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly for admission as a resolution on the prevention of corruption - in the objectives and purposes of the resolution on the prevention of corruption, we have written down that corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is detrimental to citizens and the country, threatens the rule of law and the confidence of people in the most important state institutions, reduces political stability and social peace, and hinders economic development by limiting free competition and reducing the effective distribution of funds. And then in the next paragraph, the number of corruption crimes in Slovenia is relatively small but empirical data collection shows that corruption in the country is much more and more. And this is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, which is here today in some way on a sad bench, if it has not taken the necessary measures and is not fighting corruption. You have also passed an anti-corruption law that actually brings everything that is not yet standardised, which is not yet regulated, provides a legal basis for preventive action against corruption. It brings the creation of an independent institution that will oversee a number of activities and activities, including the wealth situation of officials of all branches of government, and not only of officials, including directors of public enterprises, public institutions and the like, including those who actually face the greatest corruption risk, where the public and private sectors are contacted, the areas covered by some of today's topics. So a law that complements the rest of the legislation that I am sure of and that is also believed by others, including international organisations, that the Slovenians already have. We have complex legislation that allows systemic treatment and systematic fight against corruption, which is practical in all areas. Finally, Greece, a specialised anti-corruption organisation which conducted an evaluation in this area in the Republic of Slovenia last year, noted this. We also have all institutions, from first to last, institutions, as well as modern societies, which each have to deal with this problem with their respective competences. Of course, the fact is that we have these institutions and this legislation. But the problems of corruption obviously remain. The problems are, of course, in the implementation of these laws and in the effectiveness of the institutions they deal with. Of course, we cannot agree here that institutions work optimally effectively. There are a number of shortcomings in the functioning of institutions, but they are not to be thrown into the same basket, they are not to be flattened and cannot be attributed to the responsibility of the current government for the inefficiency of all institutions involved in this area. We have courts here, we have an accounting court, we have a state audit commission, we have a Bank of Slovenia, we have state prosecutors. These are all institutions that are key, but are autonomous. And it is impossible for a government as an institution, or perhaps a political party as such, to have any impact on the functioning of these institutions, on the different functioning of these institutions. I have experience with the Internal Policy and Justice Committee a few days ago. When the government tried to improve the efficiency of the judiciary through certain measures, the representatives of the judiciary immediately resisted to intervene in the independence of the judiciary by means of these measures. And of course such a reform, such a proposal did not go forward, was not adopted. And that's a story that repeats itself. And the inefficiency of institutions, of course, is not uniform. In addition, of course, we have another problem in Slovenia, which also causes corruption to be more difficult to manage. And that's the problem with the absence of vertical control. The problem is when, in fact, after the elections, there is a large coalition that is virtually impossible to control by the opposition. But it's also essentially a thing that's completely legitimate. Voters in elections decide who they choose. Coalitions can be formed in a way that can be formed in any democratic country. And in this case, of course, independent, autonomous, efficient institutions are those that will exercise horizontal control over the functioning of the country, over the functioning of the authority, over the functioning of the society. We have found that this horizontal control is not effective because of the various types of inefficiency of these institutions. And the third factor that appears here is the absence of an active civil society that could replace certain of these factors, which could in fact lead to certain changes. In such a state, according to our findings, the expert findings based will be said on an empiria from several sources, the Republic of Slovenia is located. This situation is not unique to the Republic of Slovenia, this situation is still such that, according to our assessment, it does not require some revolutionary measures, some para-national institutions that would cause an earthquake in the principle of power-sharing, in principle, to take power over some other institutions, but it is possible to act against such a situation in a legitimate manner with existing institutions by increasing the efficiency of existing institutions and, on the other hand, to activate and engage civil society. And any discussion as long as it is actually a constructive discussion, which is intended to raise awareness of corruption problems and the types and nature of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, is welcome; the more it is, the better we will know what it is and in what way we can confront it. By also this parliamentary debate, of course, it can contribute to public awareness in essence, that corruption is a problem, that it must be fought against. Of course, Slovenia is not in a position at this time, such as many other transition countries. I myself have had the opportunity to draw up expert opinions and to participate in real anti-corruption strategies in a number of transition countries in the last period, and I must say that my experience in those countries has in many ways softened my criticism at the expense of Slovenia and changed my view of what and how, in fact, Slovenia has done and achieved in this transition period. The problems are, of course, problems exist, but they need to be clearly defined, to identify who is responsible for solving them, where are the key reasons that lead to corruption. According to our assessment, it is primarily a human factor, especially that many still operate with a fig in their pocket, that there are no real people in the right places, and that we cannot, in fact, find the right causes many times. Here, however, it is very, very difficult to replace any measure with the content that must come from actors to fight corruption. No law, no action, no strategy, I have repeated this many times, cannot replace the internal values that, say, a representative of an institution dealing with corruption. Once again, I assure you that, according to our assessment and judgment, we have just all the institutions, we have all the legislation and, of course, we have democratic elections that allow us to change power every four years and perhaps a different approach to those who are not satisfied with the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u112	Minister Keber, 200 seconds left for the government. You want to take advantage? Well, then, just faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u113	Perhaps without any introduction, the fact that this country, the example of my department, is only one, is working on the preventive side to prevent corruption. In the health department there are two reasons, one reason is to wait for services, waiting periods that push an individual citizen into such a relationship with the operators, on the other hand, there are giant funds that are allocated each year to the purchase of medicines equipment, and in this area we have estimated that this is perhaps between 10% and 20% of the high price, which is due to various causes, some of which may be called, of course, almost never proven, corruption. I will not mention that we have investigated some rebuttal cases on the case, but I would like to mention and remind you that at the level of prevention we have significantly increased the number of services that are less citizens than on foot so far to seek informal contacts with healthcare professionals. And most importantly, here, where we think we are losing the most money on this individual citizen-to-seller relationship, in this area we are introducing in recent times, this is also one element of reform, common coordination or, if you want, a popular centralisation of procurement, although this is not true centralisation, it is a central coordination of procurement that is still carried out by individual operators, and in this area we are already making savings that reach up to 25%, depending on previous values. So, I would like to mention that these preventions, when we are not only looking for the culprit to find this individual culprit, but to prevent the roots, the causes of corruption, are also being dealt with by this government and this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In an hour and a half, she first presented arguments for her views, followed by a group of motioners, then by the government at the same time, and now we will hear the views of the members of the groups. We are expected to have 10 hours of debate ahead of us, but many colleagues have already given up their opportunity to perform, so I suppose we will conclude the debate substantially earlier. There are also some concessions among the initiators, there is no Comrade Podobnik, colleague Pohorec has waived the introduction. So I'm asking if my buddy Rokavec wants it. I didn't get the notice that there was a switch. Please, please. And after you, did Comrade Pohorec give up? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Instigators of a re-emergency meeting of the National Assembly on corruption issues are right that, as a rule, the most important affairs remain unexplored and without judicial epilogues. Of course, we can only mention some of the old affairs that, of course, have already drowned in oblivion, but the list of affairs that are ahead of us is shocking and covers all branches of power and, most painfully, also the sphere of civil society. The applicants are just beginning the Red Cross affair, which may have done the most moral damage in the field of humanitarian organisations, which will not be able to fully recover from its consequences for a long time. We are truly sorry that this area has also become a hunting ground for private benefits and financial manipulation, but the competent state authorities are slowing down or we fear that they will be crushed so that, of course, the culprits will never be judged as they should be. The Friday case is one of the cases where Slovenia can actually be compared with the Mafia-type countries, as it is an example of a brutal and brutal attack on a journalist as a symbol of independence and a mirror of the entire company of the transitional type. The Friday case is proof that there is a mafia in our country too, as the representatives of the legislative and executive authorities do not hope to talk about things that they claim are known to all. There's something really wrong here. The project of informing the biggest Slovenian bank, which is still in majority state ownership, is certainly something special, because it is a disgrace to our banking management. The Sigma affair points to the fact that our most capable bankers cannot cope with even the most basic management mechanisms, such as the introduction of more modern information technology. Much more than the assessment by the applicants of this extraordinary meeting that this is a major financial and business damage in this case, the question raised in itself is whether our bankers are even capable of carrying out the necessary restructuring of the banking sector in order to become a service to the economy. It is also concerned that the recruitment to the highest positions in the administrations of banks and insurance companies, which are still in majority state ownership, takes place according to the criteria of personal loyalty and political commitment to the narrow state summit, which is, in short, called customerism. The affairs of SIB and the municipality of Ljubljana are not a matter of losing words. Everything the proponents state is completely true. However, I think it is important to emphasise that these affairs have a common point, which is somewhat under-emphasized. This is also an attempt to privatise public enterprises, which is particularly worrying. Economic public services in our country are still operating under controlled conditions. And how is it possible that the townspeople and townspeople of Ljubljana had to pay for such a disastrous project to take over the SIB? Government macro-economicists argue that prices of municipal services can be an important source of inflation, which is why they are the most controlled for this reason. Such a situation cannot go on indefinitely. There will also soon be a hint from Brussels that this can no longer be the case, so something will have to be done in this area. There are large companies waiting behind our borders, which will be able, with the least ease in this case, to sweep up with our unfeeling communists, who have no idea what competition and the free market mean. They are also aware of this in these companies, so they are preparing the most favourable starting points for the coming times of severe trials. Economic public services will certainly be the scene of serious political struggles in the coming years, so it would indicate what to do primarily at systemic level. The affair between Orion and Zbilijski Gaj is already a matter of negotiation naivety when we are to deal with the fairy-tale promises of financial and real estate companies and, on the other hand, legislation and ineffective supervisory institutions. I would like to point out that, in particular, the meeting on the Orion affair has made it very clear that this is an affair of great proportions that does not suggest comparison with the previous ones. In the event of bankruptcy of this company, we can expect it to lose its real estate, apartments, farms, business premises for as many as 1000 families or smaller Slovenia. The fact is also that any injured persons will be able to sue the country for the damage we will have to pay the taxpayers. The Viator&Vector affair is one of the typical dirty stories of the transition period, where individual managers exploit their political influence for personal benefit and the law enforcement authorities do not bend, and it is not surprising that the government itself behaves very similarly. The Falcon affair is certainly a visual example when the media reveal the actual affair, but nothing happens at all, on the contrary. The government even boasts of how conveniently it solved the case. Perhaps the very affair of financial manipulations, bankruptcys, managers shows the arrogance of the authorities, which also in the greatest human distress of employees and creditors in bankruptcy is looking for opportunities to gain huge private benefits. And do what? A serious question arises as to what to do. Of course, we first witness the proposals to the conclusions proposed by the initiators and, first of all, we wonder why the first proposal is disputed for the Ministry of Justice to report to the National Assembly and, of course, send a comprehensive report within 30 days on the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and the stage of their completion, of course, of all HCSs, companies engaged in food and credit operations or financial intermediation. We are also wondering why it is disputed for the majority of this national council that the Ministry of the Interior will send within 30 days a comprehensive report on the introduction of criminal investigation in bankruptcy proceedings and their results, complaints that I am not quoting any further. We are also wondering what is the issue that the Government would require from the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which is a government office, to require a comprehensive report on the number of money laundering suspicions introduced in the Government's mandate, including by 30.4.2004, and to forward it to the national assembly within 30 days. It also raises the question of what is disputed in the proposal for a decision that the Government should request from the Anti-Money Laundering Office a comprehensive report on the functioning of this Office in connection with bankruptcy proceedings and send it to the National Assembly within 30 days. We are also asked what is disputed in the proposal that the Attorney-General's Office, through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should report within 30 days, at the latest, by 5 June, on the dispute, to the National Assembly on the suspicion of corruption in the mobile-Swema-Ericsson relationship, not to mention. However, it is disputed, of course, that the amended decisions formulated by the mother labour body were, of course, without the opposition, where it was not possible for representatives of the public concerned to be present, including representatives involved or in individual proposals of disputed affairs on the internal policy committee itself. However, the Internal Policy Committee proposes that, of course, the government propose to the National Assembly and send a comprehensive report on the bankruptcy movement within four months at the latest. Then the government will also send a comprehensive report on the introduction of forecasting procedures related to bankruptcy proceedings from 1990 to 30.4.2004, and will also carry out an analysis of the situation, of course, within four months. Of course, the government shall send the full report of the Anti-Money Laundering Office to the National Assembly within four months at the latest. The number of procedures introduced identifies the suspicion of money laundering within the mandate of this Government, including by 30.4.2004, the analysis of the situation and the proposals for conclusions. Simply put, these conclusions are ridiculous because they quote four months. Okay, four months from now, the end of this mandate will be over and, of course, the government will wash its hands beautifully, when, of course, the end of the mandate will be, and that is why, in this framework, the proposals for conclusions are also being timed, they are actually ridiculous. If the government is serious, if it intends to deal seriously with the problem of corruption and clienteleism in our country, then in the Slovenian People's Party we expect that it will not avoid its time-bound responsibility and its work. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will certainly propose amendments to these decisions, which, of course, will be within a reasonable time, and give the opportunity for the Government to carry out its task under the law. And, of course, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that Slovenia unfortunately does not survive sufficiently trained criminals, inspectors in various supervisory institutions, according to existing legislation, prosecutors, judges, to solve at least one of the important cases listed, unless, of course, it systematically interferes with changes. We therefore propose a more systematic and forward-looking solution. Firstly, it is immediately necessary to complete the privatisation of banks and insurance undertakings in majority state ownership and to ensure adequate supervision of their conduct. The administration and the supervisory councils shall not be composed in such a way as to be composed of representatives of the political parties of the government coalition. These authorities should represent professional and public interest. The privatisation process must also be operationally supervised by the profession and the general public. We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian People's Party, no matter where we are, in the government coalition or in the opposition, that the original sin of corruption and clientism in Slovenia is also that in public enterprises and enterprises owned by the majority state, only representatives of the political parties of the government coalition, whether at local or national level. Another time. Many supervisory and regulatory institutions should start acting more independently. Which means that it is necessary to shake off the various professional councils, where, of course, the representatives of the ministries sit and, of course, take their decisions, which should be solely within the competence of the independent profession. Third time. The Government and the National Assembly should adopt a law as soon as possible to replace the current Law on Economic Public Services, which will definitively regulate the status of economic public services, prevent their wild privatisation, enable them to become more competitive and at the same time enable them to invest and operate normally. Fourth time. The political parties represented in Parliament should support constitutional changes in the area of the judiciary towards a change in the composition of the judiciary and the introduction of the so-called experimental five-year term of office of judges. In fact, today's presentation by the Minister of Justice has shown a great deal of anaemia in our judiciary. The solutions proposed are not spectacular, but they certainly go in the direction of eliminating the possibility of creating similar affairs as the proponents have mentioned. It requires the high professional work of many experts and the taking of responsibility for the solutions proposed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also worry in the future that we will eliminate the possibility of creating new mass damage and thus for the greater reputation of the country and of course also of political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. This was a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Once again, Comrade Pohorec, you gave up the show. Comrade Wolf, would you like a word? Mr Vukko will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with corruption in Slovenia at the second extraordinary meeting of the month. Corruption is the problem. Undoubtedly. It is a problem for virtually every modern society and we cannot be exempt. However, we must ask ourselves whether this problem is really so great that it deserves to be treated every 14 days. Or the fact that we are dealing with him again today may be attributed to some other reason. Corruption, like crime, is too much at all, no matter how much it is. There is, therefore, too much corruption in Slovenia, and it deserves serious attention from the government, and not least from the National Assembly. However, this simple fact does not oblige us to seriously assess Slovenia's location with regard to corruption. Without such an assessment, the conclusion that corruption has become too much, has become a mere political fling, a witty imagination for pre-election needs, which is what is already going on. However, the assessment cannot be given in any other way than by providing data and identifying serious research into the real presence of corruption between us, in our country, and research into corruption in Slovenia compared to other countries. The estimates made on the basis of the media report on alleged corruption cases cannot, however, be sufficient to prepare an effective programme, effective measures to combat corruption. In recent months we have been able to familiarise ourselves with two such studies in the public. This is an international study on "Corruption climate in Central and Eastern European countries", conducted at the end of 2003 and at the beginning of 2004, and on Transparency International, which reflects the opinion of the people of these countries on their level of corruption. And what did you show? The first survey showed that 95% of citizens have no personal experience in corruption. The second, according to the corruption perception index, is classified in the first third of the table, 29th place, second place among the new associate members of the European Union. Which means this index isn't extremely low, it's not extremely high and it's below average. Of course, we are all together, as well as in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and we want Slovenia to get as close as possible to those Member States that are at the top of this scale among all 25 members of the European Union. However, this is a result that can be considered relatively favourable, as confirmed by the representative of the Anti-Corruption Office. So these two studies show that corruption in our country exists as a serious problem to be faced, and this problem certainly does not have such a dimension as to require an extraordinary meeting every fourteen days and to start some kind of witch hunt. So why is the second extraordinary meeting on corruption in such a short time? According to the opposition's statements and actions, corruption could be considered a number one problem in that country. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, on the basis of the above-mentioned research and the assessment of circumstances and facts, we believe that this is not the case and that there is a whole range of other topics that are also, if not more important for this country, especially when it enters the EU. Even today, we may hear that a second extraordinary meeting is necessary because the opposition is expected to limit the time for discussion at its first meeting and thus have not had the opportunity to present all the evidence, but in the interest of their claims of general and clientism and corruption, and it is not insignificant that they had eight hours of debate for internal policy at the meeting of the National Assembly for about two hours. But rather than present evidence, they protested because TV Slovenia did not tolerate this meeting and thus answered the question I raised in the introduction. Whether the fact that we are discussing corruption again can be attributed to any other reason such as the concern of suppressing this phenomenon. The answer is clear. The answer is yes. Today we are discussing corruption again because, at the previous meeting, national television did not directly tolerate the holding of the meeting and in this way destroyed the efforts of the Slovenian Coalition and the faithful companions of the Slovenian National Party to renew corruption in the pre-election game. Of course, we did not say anything epochal new with this conclusion. What are the extraordinary parliamentary sessions for which the game "who is the greater fairer" serve? We all know. We know here in the Chamber, know the journalists and know the citizens who have already accepted that such performances are part of politics. But I would like to point out, before I go to the second part of my performance, that we are not all the same in this play. Among us are those who show their honesty by showing corruption to the other side, and we are those who do not. With a policy that was built on fair play by pointing to others with her finger, we already have experience in Slovenia in a not-so-distant past. I hope that at least the citizens have remembered it if it is already a large part of the policy. So this extraordinary session does not deserve attention because it tries to exploit corruption as a pre-election theme, but because of the way it wants to deal with corruption. In contrast to the police and the prosecution, politics has two ways to combat corruption. It may decide on an effective and unspectacular way or decide on a spectacular and ineffective way. The first is the continuous monitoring, analysis of the problem, adaptation of legislation to new forms of crime and the creation of conditions for law enforcement authorities, the police and the prosecution to effectively combat it. Another is the desire for immediate results, which is why this policy seeks out criminals on its own. It seems very tense, there are no results, and so doing force is dangerous. Parliament in a democratic society must not and cannot replace the police, prosecutors and God does not give justice. If that were the case, it would be the end of the rule of law, and it would be the end of democracy. Since it is in the nature of such a policy, it always finds corrupters in particular in its political opponents. Of course, these political convictions are against you. And what do we have in common? Just overheated political situation without any results. Instead of being a place where political consensus is sought on measures to combat corruption effectively, Parliament is becoming a place where corruption is used as a weapon in a political struggle. This coalition and this government have used the first of two anti-corruption approaches in this mandate. The measures taken by the Government do not, of course, lead to overnight results. The anti-corruption law, the anti-corruption strategy or resolution, as well as the strategy to suppress economic crime, will produce results in the coming days, months, when they will be put to life by the Anti-Corruption Commission, the police and the prosecution. Nothing spectacular, just patient and professional work The Coalition of Slovenia and recently its faithful companion, Slovenian National Party, are trying to fight corruption at extraordinary parliamentary meetings. Spectacular, but I'm afraid of no real results. How serious the references to the fight against corruption and how much it serves only as a weapon in political battle may be to show the best of all the material that the convocations of this meeting have provided to the national assembly. If we leave aside that this time it does not give any solid evidence of allegations of high-policy corruption, it is particularly a selection of cases that have been drawn from more or less-questioned drawers in the illustration of widespread clientism and corruption. It's Elan, Triglav, SIB, Orion, Red Cross, Pediatric Clinic, Sikura bankruptcy, and it could still be listed. We need to ask ourselves why there are no cases on this list. What did these examples deserve to be included in the material, and why did some others, too, not come to this list? We can rightly ask ourselves why this census does not include the purchase of Indonesian coal, which was purchased by the former Government of Ljubljana without a call for tender and thus damaged the city's budget for Circus 9 billion tolars. Why is it not on this list of the establishment of the Ljubljana Holding itself, since this establishment was only carried out for the purpose that these Demos’ authorities had some important part of the public infrastructure that had escaped the control of the city council? We have every reason to wonder why there is no famous arms trade on this list, which John Janša promises to request an extraordinary session of his own, and of course he does not do so, in which a few 10 million euros of cash are suspected to have disappeared. Why is it not possible on this list to rent two brunettes of 117 square metres in the area of the Gothic Snowman, which Rajko Janša, brother of Janez Janša, rented for a period of 99 years, for a good 40 mark of monthly rent from Sneznik at the time his brother was Minister of Defence and Snowman under the control of the Ministry of Defence? Why this list did not include the purchases of computers that the Ministry of Economy had never received at the time of Jože Zagožen’s leadership without a call from the Iscre of Computers, which it had paid further, and the money ended up in the company Zebra, which participated in the pre-election campaign SDS and the company Yelen, which is owned by Rajko Janša. Let's keep going. Why is this list of 70 million tolars that Telekom paid to the company Yelen, or Promat desigen, owned by Rajk Janša only for handbills and similar gifts? Why isn't there 2.3 billion SIT commissions on this list that Eles paid the most corrupt company in the world, even though he could buy and sell this electricity without an intermediary? Why is it not on this list of bankruptcys of the Cranium Cure, which is exactly the same as the case of Sicura? And finally. Why is it not on the list of all those proceedings that have already ended or are being conducted against Paul Rupar, the Mayor of the Markets and the MP of the SDS? Why, then, are not all these cases listed in the material? The question is rhetorical, because we all know the answer. Because these are cases involving members of the Slovenian Coalition or their political allies. This way of dealing with corruption, the way in which the possibility of corruption is limited to political opponents and political allies are excluded from it, is political corruption, for me and for the LDS Group, ladies and gentlemen, a first-class political corruption. This is a way that not only does nothing contribute to the suppression of corruption, but on the contrary, it is a serious blow in the fight against it. Not to mention the gesture that the Slovenian Coalition has afforded after the previous extraordinary meeting on corruption when dissatisfied with TV Slovenia's decision, it has tabled a new law on television in Slovenia, which could seriously jeopardise the position of national television. The use of the legislative procedure for disciplining TV, national television, which does not favour certain political options to the extent that this opposition deems appropriate, is not just political corruption. These are methods that smell like organizations that offer payment protection. What such a Slovenia, at least I think, has never seen before, and let us hope that it will never again. Finally, let me stress once again, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the government coalition do not close their eyes to corruption. She hasn't done it in the past, she's not doing it today, and she's not doing it in the future. It advocates such policies and measures throughout this area that will contribute to a more effective fight against corruption at all levels. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia cannot and will not consent to some kind of witch hunt, in a way that the opposition tries to impose on us, because we believe in the constitutional order that we have built together after independence, in which the police detect the perpetrators of crimes, including corruption, the prosecution prosecutes them, and the court judges them, and not the Parliament, which, in the framework of its legislative function, forms a policy and, of course, through various institutions within its constitutional and legal powers, exercises executive powers in the implementation of this policy. This does not, of course, mean that we want to avoid these issues. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Coalition will continue to strive to implement all measures, both systemic, legislative and organisational, which will contribute to an effective fight against corruption, regardless of who is and who will be in power. This is not the last thing that citizens expect from us and nothing else about this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u118	During your performance, you also mentioned your colleague, Rupar. Comrade Rupar, as you know, I can't give you the words for the replica right now, but you will get this opportunity within the time to discuss. Comrade Sašo Pece will now present the position of the Group of Members. Please. No, no, you'll get the word, but we never give a chance to replicate the views of the groups. Peace in the hall. I think we have one peaceful and cultural debate and let's keep it that way. Comrade Peca, you have the floor. Comrade Rupar, I will give you my word as soon as the parliamentary groups present their views.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u119	Your Honor, I don't think it was fair to take a stand in front of me. Each of us in the 1990s had the opportunity to expand the agenda and to talk about why the applicants did not give this yet, and this, is an easy answer, because it would be a letter that would never end. Proposers, I hope to speak, because I am one of them, we have highlighted those dilemmas which all of Slovenia knows, which none of you, despite the claim of the government, can, of course, deny. All of you are welcome, we have said this both on the Internal Policy Committee and elsewhere. The conclusions are open. Let's step together and end corruption and clientism. If there will only be such an accusation, such as the charge made by Wolf before me, of course we will not take a step further. Two hours ago, when we started the presentation, I was running out of time, so I will continue on the subject, and before that, allow only for a brief introduction. I knew or expected that no evidence would convince members of the Liberal Democracy that they would open their eyes to the phenomenon that is growing stronger in Slovenia today. I knew that they would not be prepared to support any decision in such a form as to prevent this phenomenon. However, I hoped that some government representatives would only react differently and that someone among them, as a representative of the executive branch, would thank him for the information and say that his data had come in handy and that he would take action in this area. That is why I have to point out only one minister from this city, who, of course, is not here today. At the previous meeting, the members of the National Party spoke about irregularities in the framework of the Slovenian Railways. The Minister, Mr Pavliha, immediately asked for the information with which we operated to verify the matter. This is what the Minister does, not like you, gentlemen behind me, who are fighting everything, and like your colleagues in the framework of the Liberal Democracy, you deny everything. The purpose of the National Party and I believe that neither of the signatories is intended to argue with each other and to tell each other why there is no affair when we all had the opportunity to make an affair and to deal with it at this meeting, as the meeting is intended to do so. The second part of the notice, which was intended for the proponents - and of course I also feel personally partially affected by my colleague Vukko - - is very unrealistic. To speak and to mention exclusively affairs is not enough. That's why we wanted the proponents to have time. I therefore sincerely hope that the chairman will not interrupt me after my own time, so that we can present these affairs and that we will all come together as a national assembly to some conclusions and, above all, to the point of how to further prevent the development of such phenomena, which are all too common in our society. I said that there was a farce on the Committee on Internal Policy, that is to say, in the case of the parent working body where the previous debate took place, according to our assessment, according to the National Party's Parliamentary Group, both in the way of managing the confusion and in my opinion of the inability of perception by Mr Lavrinc. Unfortunately, however, the results of that meeting of the Internal Policy Committee are new conclusions; they are conclusions that have nothing to do with the primary seven conclusions. I said earlier that the basic conclusions were aimed at the whole, they were systematically targeted to combat corruption and clientism and, above all, money laundering in an organised manner. That is why we have tried to pursue the following objectives. First time. Preventing political support for corruption, which no one can deny today, no matter what political options come from. Another time. To give support to the judicial and supervisory institutions. Third time. To give support to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but we have just heard today through the government's performance that the government does not want this support because it sees no affair in our society. Furthermore, we have demanded the activities of the government, both governments and the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Finally, we wanted to introduce the so-called corruption clause through the last seventh decision of the proposed material, which would be the basis for the staff being unable to be nominated. I'm sorry. This practice is currently different in force in our country. As I said, it was said on the Internal Policy Committee or a few dilemmas were raised. First of all, you're saying the conclusions weren't concrete. But from this point of view, I have to say that we came to the meeting open to discuss, to propose who should be invited to the mother's working body. Earlier, I was able to read some of these people to make contact and not to make it look like a witch hunt. What does Mr Lavrinc, chairman of the committee, do? It prevents people whom we have assessed to be actively involved in the prevention of corruption from attending a meeting. He simply does not allow them to be present or even invite them. Where is the logic that something is required and at the same time prevent the demand from being met? Furthermore, according to our assessment, it is very important, according to the Slovenian National Party, to add, of course, its legal service to deny corruption, customerism and money laundering, which has recently been acting very politically and even politically within the legislative branch, Parliament, at least after our assessment. Allow me to read a quote from the opinion of the Legal Service. The National Assembly, I quote: "The National Assembly cannot and must not carry out investigations or act on specific cases." It cannot act, we must not debate, we must not implement or review anything. Furthermore, this same legislative and legal service is sending us to some new instrument or instrument of the Commission of Inquiry. I sincerely hope that most of the Slovenian citizens and the citizen know what it means, unfortunately, to be an investigative commission. The investigative commission means solving or having to use incomplete time to solve the problem for a long, boring time. Last but not least, such an investigative commission has been set up for electricity trade. For three years, the members of this committee have worked on what this same national assembly wanted or, after my assessment, at the order of Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, limited the debate to this committee so that they could not even read the report, let alone the debate take place. And the legislative and legal service advises us to establish investigative commissions for all of these affairs listed here and all of them that we all know around us. This means that the number of treatments will take place for the next 20 years. And at the end of 20 years, the presidents of these committees will have exactly five minutes to say what they've done. Is this the way the National Assembly proposes? Of course not, according to our assessment. It has been repeatedly expressed through various press releases, press conferences, mainly by government parties, that Members and Members have certain instruments in their hands, but that their essence in the National Assembly is to vote in favour or against. The instruments are next. First time. It's a question of question. I must say that we have raised parliamentary questions in connection, at least within the framework of the National Party, with all the above-mentioned material affairs. But we didn't get an answer for more than half of them. And of course, because no one can sanction the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, because they do not reply, they have no reply. If the Members of the Liberal Democracy were satisfied with this, yes, that's your problem. If we ask a question in the National Party, we want an answer to that question. The other instrument you are offering us under the Rules of Procedure is, of course, a parliamentary initiative. Just like before. There's no mandatory answer here either. And the third question, or the question, and the parliamentary initiative, where the government usually answers, if the answer comes, always in the sense of "We will think about it". It's beautiful. However, the third instrument available to us has been used several times in the last period, this is the so-called extended debate where we have Members who feel a problem, an affair, at least by the rules of procedure, an opportunity to propose to the National Assembly to discuss this issue at an extended point. Several Members have done so in the last term. In April alone, three Members of Parliament were asked to discuss disagreements or alleged irregularities in the payment of the profits of legal persons, as a result of the referendum, further to the management contracts, in May as regards the Zbiljski Gaj, even as regards the Court of Auditors and employment, to launch a so-called public debate request. But you know what happened? These are the affairs. The ruling Members, no one among them has supported this. Why not? Even then, you didn't think it was important. I just read you April, May. I have 27 cases ahead of me, 27 last year's affair. And all 27 of you who have touched these affairs have voted against it. It was a shame that you had time to discuss this, despite the fact that this part or this institute could not accept the possibility of a parliamentary debate in its contents, but you were only afraid of the debate. And how, then, can you read to the applicants today if you have not allowed one option for an extended debate for more than a year? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not replied to any fundamental question, to any substantial initiative. After all, how can you claim that this meeting is intended for a pre-election theme? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid that's not the case. This meeting is intended for what is also the title. In Slovenia corruption, clientism and money laundering have become too rich. The latest World Bank report has also come to warn us of a more frequent phenomenon. And this meeting is also intended to prevent this, not to discuss how the elections will be in the autumn. And whoever thinks well will remember - for an extraordinary session already months ago, claims have come, but you have not heeded them. You have tried to reduce the impact of the extraordinary session through time constraints, content limitations and so on. Since the initial proposed conclusions to move forward, as proposed by the applicants in the home working body and later in the plenary session, you have unfortunately managed to cast three new conclusions after the old practice of voting negatively all seven. About the same story as it was at the previous meeting, when you turned the concrete conclusions that would have a certain positive effect into conclusions that nothing could ever leave you in the air and lie to ourselves, yes, because we accepted something. And what the Committee on Internal Policy or what government Members do or vote on the Committee on Internal Policy: three conclusions. Firstly, the government should carry out statistics on the movement of bankruptcy cases. Wonderful! Under this item, the National Assembly will take the first decision to have the government carry out the statistics. Yeah, where did we live now? But the statistics haven't been working in the last ten and a few years? Is it only at this point that we have learned about corruption and clientism? No, no, no. This is one of these conclusions that lies in the air, which has been adopted so that maybe someone will think, yes, because something has only been done in those hours of discussion. The second conclusion that came to the plan that was born on that parental working body - the father and mother of the United List - reads: "The government should carry out an analysis of the situation." The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should carry out an analysis of the situation! So what are we talking about? These conclusions prove, gentlemen, that it is not up to me to get to the bottom of the matter or to limit the matter. And the last, the third decision, which was taken on the home work body, says, "A report of the office must be obtained." Ladies and gentlemen, if this has not already been done, then it is not worth calling our government a government. According to our assessment, of course, such conclusions - and I believe they will be accepted - will put everything on your head. You'll feel once again that you've given the green light to continue your friendship with corruption. As far as the content proposed for consideration at the extraordinary meeting is concerned, I have told you that there are those, logically, only some of the affairs that have shaken our country. And as an interesting thing to say, most of these affairs have come to the public through the media, not through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the supervisory institutions or judicial institutions or anything that would be logical or normal. No, no, no. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not plan any conduct of irregularity. They all came through a certain newspaper or through individual media. Let us touch or touch some of these affairs that have stirred up the Slovenian public, about which I have already said in the introductory part what is a common feature. It's that they have a political godfather. We'll see he's holding. It's coming from the United List, LDS. We'll see that they were exploiting the flawed legislation. Here. We will see that the law enforcement authorities, the judicial authorities and the supervisory authorities have not performed their functions. And this, gentlemen, will continue if we do not once adopt at least a little more concrete conclusions than is the case with this constant custom. Red Cross, I'm going to start with this affair because I think it's the first one in the building. We all know, Mr Mirko Jelenić, the candidate of the United List for Members, I think that at the previous State-level elections, which he served as Secretary-General. Irregularities have been identified. Millions and millions of funds were missing. Within the organization, they spent months and months to change their personnel to complete the matter. No one's ever been arrested, detained. Of course, there was no legal epilogue in normal form. Despite all of this, it was a serious property damage done by individuals on behalf of a humanitarian organization. And before that, I said that three elements are necessary for the existence of an affair in our country. The lack of legislation in this area was due, of course, to the privileged situation between the humanitarian organisations of the Red Cross, which was at that time untouchable for financial supervision. The man with ties, i.e. Mr Jelenič, was associated with the United List. The result, not only was that there was a direct shortage of over some 100 million Slovenian tolars and that the damage was caused three more times, four times as much, but of course that the black light at that moment - I think today - fell on all humanitarian organisations. As for Elan, something has been said today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in response to how the government has tried to take a positive approach to the resolution of the affair, Elan. Do you really think there's anything done in this area? Not according to our estimate. Over 28 criminal charges have been filed as a result of fraud, fraud, and fraud. But what followed? Nothing. None of the right people, despite ensuring that the government came together and arranged something, had anything in this area. Even more, we've achieved a counter-effect. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, later, after placing the manager in Elan, even rewarded the manager for two years' work, with a billion and a half Slovenian tolars. Do you know how close that is? This is more than half the municipalities have an average budget per year in the Republic of Slovenia were awards for execution. And who allowed you to do that? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And what was going on, conversations? Through SRD. And who owns the SRD? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And who owns the government? Liberal democracy. The stories are very simple in our country, but of course there is no intention of anyone trying to stop them. The talk was and I will stop - of course I will skip them, because I see that I have very little time available - around the New Ljubljana Bank. I heard one of the ministers bragging about privatisation, about the success of privatisation. In 1994, the National Assembly, on behalf of the protection of Slovenk and Slovenes, adopted the so-called rehabilitation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. It has been allocated 400 billion Slovenian tolars for issued bonds. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been promised - this was decided by constitutional law with a 2/3 majority in this national council, that when the bank is privatised, only this will take place under the law - this law is not available today and that citizens will be reimbursed for what they were charged with through bonds. Do you think anyone got anything? Nobody got anything. But the Belgians came to the New Ljubljana Bank in exchange for firing some workers and in exchange for selling the bank for a little more than 100 billion, 1/4 of the value that we Slovenians paid through the rehabilitation. Isn't that corruption? Isn't that political corruption? Well, in addition to the discharge under the New Ljubljana Bank, we also received the Sigma project, which was overpaid for over 5 billion Slovenian tolars on the basis of the audit report. This Slovenia, this dear Slovenia of ours, behaves in just the right way with money, so the money is from the citizens, it is not ours, let us spend it, because it does not matter what will await the foreigners. I am truly sorry that the time has passed for me to be able to touch the surface of one of the affairs, but I would not want anyone to be found for this speaker who would hope to speak as did my colleague Lavrinc before, to be concrete. If you want us to be concrete, gentlemen and ladies of the Liberal Democracy, then let us talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u120	Thank you very much. This was a colleague of Peca and the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Now I give my word to my colleague Tsukati. My colleague France Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the word of a fellow Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I myself have a good opinion about Slovenians, about Slovenian workers, I think they are good or we are good and also capable. I know a number of colleagues, not just doctors and others who went abroad and succeeded, a number of craftsmen who failed here went to Germany and succeeded. Interesting. This is just the first word when I talk about this several times a commented report from the International Institute for Management Development. The fact that in 2002 we were from the 60 candidates or the countries that this institution is monitoring, the 30th, the 40th, in 2003 and that we have now fallen to the 45th place, that is to say, to the 45th place after the competitiveness of the economy, from the 30th to the 45th city. This competitiveness and this information, of course, includes a range of other data. It also includes entrepreneurial efficiency, where we fell even further, where we fell from the twenty-first to the eleventh city in three years. And even more dramatic is the area of corruption and clientism. The effectiveness of control of administration is so poorly assessed in this study that we are almost in the last place, in the eighty-fiftyth place. Internal information trading, and here we are the last, worst of the 60 candidates that this institution is monitoring. The worst. I am very concerned about this ease of interpretation of this study, as demonstrated by the new Minister of Economy. It bothers me very much. In view of the fact that we have fallen last on corruption issues, if I were a minister, I would demand an extraordinary meeting of the government, demand a series of measures, make myself real, make up for what's going on. And he says, "Well, that's okay, but that's based on the polls, and we Slovenians are masochistically self-critical and so on." We were also self-critical years ago. And last year's survey, while we are already talking about the opinion of these managers, which President Rob has taken very seriously into his hands, how they hope to express their views. When we look at their opinion in the survey last year, it is shocking that 48% of managers say corruption gives urgent evil in Slovenia, that you do not get a public order without bribery. Or we're just going to wave our hand, because it's nothing, it's just so little critical of all this stuff. 48% of managers know they have to bribe someone who's in power, so to speak, to get an order. And [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u122	There's no dispute in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u123	One wonders whether this is a serious matter or not. [[...]] The main objective of this extraordinary meeting is to make us aware that this is a Slovenian problem, that if we want to live a better life, if we want to prevent foreign capital from escaping from Slovenia, it will not escape from an environment that is very unfavorably serious competition and entrepreneurship, and if we want to preserve jobs and open new jobs, and if we want to achieve, however, that we will succeed in public procurement, those who are capable of being honest, innovative, that is, by some other values and qualities, and not by what is happening today, then something must be done. Then something has to be done. That's all we want. And if you still don't believe and think we're talking like this, I have to say that as far as corruption is concerned, these two key elements, the indicator of corruption, namely the effectiveness of control over administration and trade on the basis of internal information, have been proven so many times in this material that whoever has truly read this material, must seriously imagine. And also with regard to the opinion itself and this research that we have repeatedly mentioned. Indeed, there are some questions or parts of a set of data for this study based really on the research questions and the answers of managers. However, the vast majority of data is based on very clear parameters that are fully measurable. The following parameters are taken into account when it comes to the effectiveness of the government: respect for economic legislation, allocation of tax burden, efficiency of tax administration, indebtedness of the country in the domestic market and abroad, real interest rates, transparency of public finances, protection of private property and so on. These are all measurable issues and, of course, the government's effectiveness fell in three years from 42 to 47. The most competitive issue is corruption and customerism. We have repeatedly warned about the inefficiency of administration control. This is where the research shows we're at the bottom of the scale. Of course, the reason is that the supervisory boards are staffed by, in fact, the supervisory boards and the administrations of companies from the same political nest. And clearly, surveillance doesn't work. There are also several examples of internal information trade in this material. Let me mention only one that is not in the material, a detailed case with a last name and a name. That's what this case says. The story of Sparkle Auto Electrics, I'm not gonna tell names, I'm just gonna tell the company. This story on Iskri autoelectrica began in 2000, when the leading representatives of this company, together with the members of the board and the supervisory board, joined as members in FAE d.o.o., presenting the acquisition of shares in Iskra autoelectrica as the sole purpose of the establishment of this company. The board and the board of directors, members joined the company. The main goal is to acquire shares in this company. Of course, they knew about these shares. Internal information has been excellent about the value of these shares and so on. This is therefore an extremely controversial situation in which members of the Supervisory Board, who should control the administration, are merged with the members of this administration and, in conjunction with them, indirectly carry out transactions in respect of which they should actually exercise control over the administration. And this new company, made up of the administration and the supervisory board, was established with a minimum legal possible amount of basic capital. The next moment, the next moment, she gained more than 100 million dollars of bank credit, with which she bought her 10% stake in Srda-owned Iscre autoelectrica. First time. How did she get this loan when she didn't have any material basis? How did she get what guarantee, who gave the guarantee? He followed the purchase of the stake that was owned by Srd. If someone in the back doesn't see the use of internal information for theft of state property behind it, then there's no help. Then this session doesn't help either. It is also interesting that these FAE members then sold these shares to a gentleman, or some unknown owner, represented by the President of the Supervisory Board of the same company. The President of the Supervisory Board represented an unknown buyer and sold him these shares. And, of course, in doing so and before that, they have accumulated a number of other stocks. These shares have never been purchased in the open market. Never across the stock market. It's all under your arm. And on one single issue of public tendering and obtaining a business either from the State or from companies owned by the State, an example is given in this paper. When the Post Office of Slovenia is one of the most important items, this is the right order, the invitation to tender for the purchase of trace equipment. And of course, first three candidates, Ultra, ITS, applied. [[Intertrade Systems]] And Rapala. Because there were three of them and it was probably ITS. [[Intertrade]] More competitive than Ultra, the invitation to tender was withdrawn. The invitation to tender was subsequently re-examined. She only signed up for Ultra. Director of ITS [[Intertrade Systems]] it has assessed that, due to the changed terms and times of the invitation to tender, they are not to be notified. The Director of Rapala, who also participated in the first call, was even clearer. He said, "In view of the situation, we have decided that we will not have a real chance of success through a market approach." Gentlemen, such calls and such epilogues of calls are as much. Ask entrepreneurs who are not LDS or have no bots, have no political bots, have no friends in the ministries and those who call, and they will tell you. And they'll tell you, show you the documents, show you how they ran and how it ended. And if the Minister of Economy sees no problem in this, then it is not said that there is no problem, but that the Minister is said to be blind. With regard to the attitude towards corruption issues last year in Mladina, Mr Penko said, on the question of the story of Ericsson's bribes that came to the public at that time: "It is not at all that Scandinavian countries are immune to corruption. The difference between the Scandinavian countries and us is that something happens to them when the news of the corruption affair is published. When it comes to an affair, it's a thorough investigation, it's a process. Inscandal affairs do not remain only a major mess if I paraphrase the Attorney General, colleague Zdenko Cerar, but the matter is put in a legal framework and dealt with. In accordance with their competences, all institutions are engaged in corruption." I know that we will not eradicate corruption in our country, but the country that does not act is guilty of such a situation. When we proposed conclusions at the first meeting in early May this year, we proposed only three conclusions after the debate on corruption. We have proposed that the Attorney General's Office investigate the suspicion of corruption in the mobile-svem Ericsson relationship. We wanted the Money Laundering Office to check all financial transactions between companies owned by the majority state, Telekom and Mobile and private companies, Svema, Ultra, GIB Concrete, MTO Zagorje and so on. And we expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to explain why, in response to Andre Bajuk's question about State aid, Ultra referred to incorrect data. We didn't judge anyone, we didn't lynch anyone, we didn't point a finger at anyone, and we didn't stick a finger at him with names. No, we just wanted something to happen to us when there's a suspicion of corruption. Nothing else. And of course this National Assembly, the government coalition then rejected these proposals and voted down two decisions. In the first, the government coalition said: "The National Assembly notes that the proposed material does not contain any concrete data to indicate the suspicion of corruption in companies." That's great! And then the second conclusion: "The National Assembly notes that the proposed material also constitutes an unacceptable discreditation of successful Slovenian companies." So there's no corruption. And, "what you are saying is the discreditation of the most successful Slovenian companies". And speaking of Ultra, is she really so terribly successful? And why is she successful? How's she doing? Firstly, the National Assembly has, of course, put itself in the role of a judge, a judge, and has found that there is no corruption. And he found, secondly, you only discredit successful Slovenian companies. The current meeting also has some proposed conclusions. Among other things, we have proposed that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Attorney General's Office, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, do something to investigate suspicion. We don't say it's true. That's what the papers say. That's what the papers show. We just want this thing to be explored. And on the board, you have all these proposals that you would impose on these institutions that are paid to detect and prosecute corruption in order to do something, to reject and to propose some such insolence. That corruption was very clearly mentioned last year. There was a conversation last year. Last October, the then Director of the Anti-Corruption Office called on the institutions and warned them that there was a likelihood of corruption in the event of the operation of the Swedish mobile phone equipment manufacturer Ericsson, in which Slovenian citizens could also be involved, but as we know, the prosecution did not fail. And of course, in such a situation, it is not surprising that the competitiveness of our economy is poor. No wonder corruption is one of the main elements of this decline in our economy. I think it is the present time, the time of this debate, but it is appropriate to stress once and for all the accidental cases of how corruption takes place in our time of transition. As I said, the disqualification or decision taken by this National Assembly in early May that our speech is actually the same discreditation of successful companies was meant by Ultra. Already today, it has been heard on what is the basis of a large successful company, how is it with patents that are supposed to be protected from being absent. In fact, it is a matter of tying up a strange transfer of knowledge and it is a priority in obtaining contracts in public procurement. If I, too, had been assured that, for example, a particular company would order me such and such a transaction at an inappropriately higher price than they would have been willing to do, then, of course, my success would have been guaranteed. If, at the same time, I had been assured that I would receive State aid, unwarrantedly, in a strange way, then of course I would be very successful. Just an example. In 2002 and 2003, one company received 23 million grant state aid for education and training, and only three employees. And in two years, this company received 23 million grants for the education and training of these three personnel. In Slovenia, I think there are still some small businesses, entrepreneurs, who would also raise their competitiveness if someone gave them maybe five times less for education. And of course, the third reason is the inviolability of taxation. Again, a company, unfortunately again with very few employees and also from the same environment, had a net profit of 450 million in 1996 to 1999, and did not pay a tolar tax. On such a condition and at such a work, everyone can be successful. Anyone who has an axe falls into such a political honey. We don't mind success as such, we don't mind wealth, we don't mind profit, we certainly don't. God let them have it. God bless them. But the question is, how do you get this profit? It's not a profit problem. The problem is how do you get it? And, of course, that password that we break the reputations of such companies and somehow interfere with their business performance. Gentlemen, even if we're chasing drug dealers, we're going public, and we're hurting their business performance. We're in harm's way. Of course we're hurting. However, I think it is first of all to pursue corruption and the linkage, which, of course, does the greatest harm by favouring those who are capable, but not with knowledge, with competition, but capable of bribery and finding such connections, which, of course, are then well-renewed. I think it would be very bad to give this country a signal and say, "It's nothing. This will continue to happen." This is like giving young people a signal, ability, decency, reliability and honesty are values you will not experience, you will not succeed in life, you will not have a success in life. I think that would be a very bad signal. A weak signal that would actually deepen us further into non-competitiveness, which is in fact one of the main causes of the poor situation, increasingly low wages and fewer jobs. Gentlemen, this is a problem we cannot keep quiet about. You can still talk or criticize us to keep talking about it. If we were to accept this, we would be like a patient who has metastases cancer and gives up on his own destiny. We can't deal with this for a while. At the end of April, at the memorial day of the establishment of the anti-imperialist front, a representative of one of the government parties said as follows: The rebellion is recorded in the foundations of Slovenian statehood. I'd say no, the rebellion is written in the genes of the Slovenians. And we will resist corruption, we will resist these corrupt links between politics and the economy. We'll always fight back. The rebellion is recorded in our genes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u124	That was a buddy of mine. He presented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We'll hear two more opening remarks. Then if my friend Rupar wants 3 minutes for the replica, I'll give you that chance. He'll replicate, if I understand correctly, Comrade Wolf. While presenting the views, replica is not possible. I say that a replica is not possible between the views of the MPs, and I have not given him this option at the request of my colleague Rupar. Now he has the word of his colleague Drobnič, his colleague Potrč. Once the views of the parliamentary groups are exhausted, we will go to the debate. The government can come forward at any time, and the time for the replica will be then. Please, Comrade Petty Officer, you have one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! Colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government, ministers and ministers! Apparently, they're just ministers. Welcome to the 46th extraordinary session. You have just heard the 46th Extraordinary Meetings, of which I believe the opposition has proposed three extraordinary sessions. Sir. The sink, you see, is such a state that you won't think it's due to the rave of the opposition, that there are so many extraordinary meetings. This may indicate that we are in an emergency or that such a situation is to be created. But that's right. First, I would like to explain, on behalf of the Group of Members, why it is right to talk about this. So the analysis shows, as well as government institutions, that it is corruption in our country, that it is a phenomenon that must be taken seriously. I would expect, and also in the New Slovenia Group, an appropriate response from the ruling coalition. So if there's a problem, let's deal with this problem together. These problems, which are, are not a questionable matter. Everyone we've listed is still alive, although perhaps not. Let's see what we listed. Among other things, say, Elan. You think this is an old case? No, it's not an old case. This filed appeal is as I have heard or is under way on the complaint. From the New Slovenia Group, we just gave the material to get rid of it. The BTC has not been completed at all, although there is no more public and social capital in it. However, there is still a law under which it could be brought into its original state if it were willing. Red Cross - are these dusty things? They haven't even been to court yet! What if there is still a lack of an indictment as to when it turns out to be necessary to file during the course of the proceedings? SIB bank - are these the cases asked? None of these, though you may have guessed. But something else happened at this time abroad. Some cases have been completed and are indeed completed and are related to Slovenian post-transition time. Softi - what was connected to Slovenian reality is completed in Italy. The market credit bank, too. Some of our people were involved. Ljubljana Bank in Rome and Milan and New York, Smelt in Switzerland, Unimerat - Munich, TAM - Deutschland, Elan in Austria, Germany and Switzerland, Ljubljana Bank in Croatia. These were trials, lawsuits, court decisions that were concluded. All of them are linked to our post-transition process. What's the end of it with us? Nothing. Elan, phase one, is closed because the prosecutor forgot to file a complaint in due time because he was late. It's a reality. There is no problem, such as the proposal for these conclusions, that corruption is not a problem in Slovenia. And secondly, we are supposed to be demeaning or misdirecting good companies. In the opposition and, of course, at the same time in New Slovenia, we want to come to the green branch or at least help clarify things. However, we would like to warn the public that it will move and actually become pressure to change the situation. For corruption, clientism, and political involvement are persistent diseases. Do you think it would be good for us to be as rooted as the mafia in Italy, where this long campaign of mani pools has turned this car around a little bit. Of course, some paid dearly. Attorney General Di Pietro has lost his life. Well, it's time to sensitize the public, make a sense. Minister Gantar mentions: someone lost something, the other got something. Yes, that's true, but what happened illegally must be returned. There have been huge differences, but those differences resulting from illegal action, corruption, clientism and other things must be brought back. But above all, the problem is that it doesn't move. Corruption and clientism have become a fugitive and an integral part of the government in this country. This is shown by the ways of ownership, public procurement, the installation of officials, the functioning of the judiciary, law enforcement and more. The main substance of the country that leads to great social dispersion, unfair wealth, the economic initiative and the increasing number of people are walking into poverty is being launched. In these 12 years, a certain elite has been created, which circulates from one public institution to another, that is to say. All initiatives to involve some other experts, including on the basis of the opposition's proposals, have therefore not fallen to fertile ground. There are cases in the city administration or in the municipality of Ljubljana where serious illegal acts have occurred, but there was no willingness to seriously establish control over these institutions. We had a number of cases of savings banks and businesses where people lost a lot of money, Compass Consulting, Sicura, insurance company or Triglav Bank, and then Les Bank, these construction affairs that have recently come a day. One of the first properties of cumulative capitalism, wild, appeared at the beginning in Postojna - Optimism. His traces of inpots continue to flow, mainly through the carriers of these acts. As we know, Mr Slejko was involved, Mr Biščak also worked in this company and then appears in the redesign of the nutrition and credit service of this Optimism, Mr Sever, which continues the project in Sicura. Sicura is once again a project in which our citizens lose a lot of money. This was enabled or allowed also because Banka Slovenije is not working as it should. So, also, the responsibility of Banka Slovenije for some to come with large sums of money. The most brutal or most brutal way of managing and managing the country has not included humanitarian organisations. The red cross has to be mentioned - why? The Red Cross is a humanitarian organisation that is supposed to operate according to non-profit principles, non-profit, but here it was done according to profit principles, not just that - according to the principles of poor management, and not only that - according to the principles of granting favourable credits, which then cannot be returned, to political boars, to political thinkers and so on. The Red Cross of Slovenia still requires more than 100 million tolars from Slork and other projects that have been involved in these strange money laundering and charity activities. How, then, can people put faith in humanitarian action if they turn around in this way? Of course, some other lawyers, such as the gentleman who did these advisory work, who also appears in the city and still works, were involved. And this gentleman also made the so-called "due dilligente" in the purchase of SIB. And for this careful legal review, I have declared to the city council that it is not worth the paper on which it is written, and this "due dilligance" is really worth nothing, because in the end it is a statement that it is not possible to provide this proprietary insurance portfolio, right, because he did not obtain documentation for it at that time. Is that how it's done? And on the basis of this careful review, the city authorities went shopping for SIBs. I don't know if the Minister, before being a prosecutor, mentioned in this context that it's not worth paper, that's a careful review that's worthless, but it's been heavily charged with 10 million tolars, which means a five-year salary for a lot of workers, and he's done it with a quiet hand in a couple of days. That's how it's done, and that's how it goes. Most rich people found their own box in Forum 21. It's a problem. This is an additional contribution to the so-called corporate state, which commands from one centre and is subject to all of them. In this context there are also mandatory associations of various chambers and professional associations, and on top there is one and the same elite. Dangerous work, which somewhat smells like periods, say, 70 years ago, dangerous extensions for a non-good country. Instead of being the custodians of social and state capital during the first period of the transition, the current directors have become the abusers; not all of them, but are cases that clearly show that they were not concerned about the interests of the owner, in this case of citizens or under the authority of the state. They behaved like wolves guarding the sheep. Let's take a look at some examples. BTC's colleague Dr. Bajuk already mentioned how to do this when you have social capital and even private capital in the initial period because it started to interfere - how do you make it all the way to a stock company where you own yourself? By temporarily parking social or state capital in line for development, where the custodian at the time was Mr Korża, who was then the guardian of Elana, because things are connected. And then over time, you buy out this capital by way of forgiveness and stuff. In the meantime, of course, you issue certain debtors for the extraordinary payment of salaries, which are also written on the payment sheet of the power plant, but even workers never get the money. In distress, however, the sale of their certificates, which managers say and others say are worthless goods. And then a real ownership structure is established. BTC is not valid - it is so interesting that the person who led this business has appeared, has appeared several times in the company of the former president at the Olympics basketball club. It was a beautiful company that now has its seat elsewhere, at Forum 21, so the company of the phantom society, we can call [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Oh, thank you very much. [[...]] No, no. The one from BTC who was a regular chaperone at Mr. Kučan's basketball games. Then identify who this person was. Next is a similar story to that of Geoplin. Geoplin, you can say, maybe it's not listed inside, but I do mention it in this package because it's a similar story about how social capital disappears. The company’s management did not provide the correct data on the company’s capital and the associated reserves. This could be established on the basis of the opening balance. She didn't make you. Since it has not regulated these activities in the property transformation process, all of this property should be transferred to the country, or to that authority, the Slovenian Development Society, or when all the typroceses were engaged, in line with the development led by Mr Korže at the time. Instead, in the administrative procedure led by this Slovenian development company or its predecessor, it was found that there was no social capital in this process. This decision was signed by Mr Boris Šuštar as President of the Supervisory Board. This monitoring process also involves a person from a Slovenian development company who then signs, among other things, a contract with Elan. He also went to Elan through Slovenian development society, in one form or another, slightly more than 7 billion. Therefore, this person, who should be the custodian of social and state capital, shall draw up an expert opinion that there is no social capital in this Geoplin. That's it! After the financial statements on 31.12.1992, this was then the audit also found that the company had 20 million brands of this social capital. If we convert this into tolars, I think it's about 2.5 billion at the current mark rate. Thus, the Ombudsman found that the property had not run according to the law and that it was also an anonymous social capital, so he filed a criminal complaint against the court. There is no verdict yet, even though this procedure has been going on for many years. Well, at that time, this person who was the custodian of the social capital process, you want to move on to Geoplin's management team. But this person has also left Geoplin and moved on to a new flower where similar things are happening. The result is a judicial epilogue - zero, it is still a solution to this problem if there is a will, especially political will and in particular the seriousness and determination of prosecutors and the courts to prevent and put these things in the right state. Mr Penko has put two points of view in this context. First of all, he has nothing to do with politics and nothing to do with these matters. Mr Penko, you are here, I don't know if he's already gone to rest, he was on trial in Sofora, where a few million marks of money disappeared, of course some citizens were injured, including the disabled. He's referring to an inactive civil society. Civil society is actually appearing more and more in these processes than corporate organisations. Why? Because the ruling coalition does not support proposals to provide an independent source of income for civil society, so that citizens who contribute from their savings or any of the charities of humanitarian organisations will also be exempt from income. In the Income Law you even reduced this percentage, which is taken into account in the income relief, both for natural persons, i.e. for us, citizens under the Income Act, as for legal persons under the Law on the Tax of Legal Persons - I think I was just quoting it so that I wouldn't be wrong. So this civil society does not have the option of operating because you do not institutionally include it either, but the government ensures that it will provide much more money to this civil society, so much more money from the budget through the government. What kind of civil society is this? Is this independent money, colleagues and colleagues? This isn't the right way. The money-thrower is the master. Civil society will therefore be the protector of ruling and governmental interests, otherwise this cannot be understood. Thus, civil society does not have that city because it is not allowed and cannot be imposed through these financing processes to carry out this control. What about this, not only clienteleism, but how ministers are also involved in these links. Well, ministers in this government are doing mostly - we've found that - other jobs, lectures, supervisory councils, or some counseling, directly or indirectly. These are, of course, all the possibilities of having any impact on businesses, on other institutions, and this is not the right basis for independent action. And in the case of Elan, when the basic sources were established for the financing of this Korza company, which performed the management function of Elan and also provided other funds for his work, one of the ministers entered at that time. And don't think that it was prepared and signed by the Slovenian Development Society. I have obtained a document in which the Minister wrote in his own hand how much for the UK - this probably does not need to be highlighted in particular what the UK stands for - this is Uroš Korže; the PF prize, UK, as agreed, and the condition, in what way - for the first two years. So these reward bases, which amount to 2 billion and something else, did not come from the Slovenian Development Society, with the expert - with the Minister this was the case. That's it, you know, and then we wonder why a contract like this was made. There are two options: that the one who worked was preparing this contract, not knowing anything, or that the other was knowingly doing it and making a bad deal. The second option is not to make such a mistake to reward the manager on the basis of accumulation. And so this additional award, which was from this initial "start-up money", so money and other advisory services, is all foreseen, 1.5 million German marks. All of this is indicated, which then came into this treaty, which they signed, including this gentleman who took care of social capital in Geoplin and also in Elan. Corruption also in the distribution of television and radio frequencies - distribution under the table. We have repeatedly warned that some frequencies are broadcast, although the Minister or Director of the Agency claims that nothing is broadcast at these frequencies, 105.5 and 97.3. When we went to the field, to the area where these frequencies can be heard, of course, some broadcast. We requested a hearing in the National Assembly in order to give the minister and the government services a proper explanation of why this is happening and why it is being allocated in this way. We didn't get any answers. Why isn't that guaranteed? Also because this National Assembly has not adopted rules that would prevent the deterioration of corruption and criminal cases, initiatives on the same taxation and enforcement of specific loopholes in the law are rejected. Elan's out of date. Then we have 80 billion damage to social or state property, the competent control agency gives an accurate picture, the social lawyer also finds out, even in the case of Geoplin he found out and then no complaints are filed. In the National Assembly, including with the assistance of the ruling coalition, it is accepted by the Committee that the responsibility of Attorney General Zdenka Cerara must be assumed in this regard. This was not discussed by the government. She did not discuss where the money went, where billions went, and why no complaints were filed to speed up the process. The Anti-Corruption Office makes general observations, is a 'paper tiger', and criminal police are 'without teeth' because it is neither equipped nor trained nor anything else. The supervisory institutions need to enforce the principle of contradiction, the opposite party controls that control is carried out in the supervisory authorities, eliminate all cases of conflict of interest, and that there is no interest in the ruling coalition. An effective judicial system, strengthening criminal prosecution services - this is one part of our proposals and we will also mediate everyone else in the form of conclusions. Why does nothing happen in Slovenia? Slovenia is increasingly sinking back as far as these illegal and socially unacceptable acts are concerned - because there is no political will to do so; because there is neither the political will to take this national assembly seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! We could propose an additional case, we could set an example as to how additional options, including marriages, should be resolved. These conclusions, which are, point to this. Of course, this national council cannot turn into a court of law. We present to you things, including involvement, ultimately involvement in the Red Cross. The Secretary-General of the Red Cross is politically involved - just that, then I conclude - has run for election in 1996 on the United List, in the elections district of Črnomelj and has received 12.9% of the votes, a member of the United List today and has significant influence in the party. [[....]] His political career began in the 1970s, and for the Secretary-General of the Red Cross, he was first appointed as Secretary-General of the Red Cross on the proposal of the CKZKS and Mr Milan Kučan in 1986. Mr Kučan distinguished him with a silver and honorable sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia for exceptional merit in the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. When it was resolved, this gentleman sat first at the celebration of 2003 in front of the Members. You can see how someone else has power, and someone who's lost all functions is putting himself first. Then we can also say to the conclusion, is the president then the other person, the chairman of the board of directors, resigned - from where is this name already known? [[...]] In the previous term, the Lord was a Member of the Greens, a member of the Board of Supervisors, a senior LDS official and a former LDS member - namely, a liaison. I do not mean to say that officials are not supposed to be in these civil organisations, but anything, but not in such a way that they are involved in such transactions; such transactions as have occurred, inter alia, on the Red Cross. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u126	The last parliamentary group to present its views on agenda item 2 tonight is the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. My friend Potts has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When I had been following a relatively empty part of the hall for a long time, in which there were signatories and requests for an extraordinary session, I - don't sound like a joke I really meant - hoped that they could consult and that after presenting their views and arguments by the government they would come and say: Thank you, we have achieved our purpose, we have received many specific information, everything else we do is a waste of time. Looks like I was too naive again. However, before I received these answers from the government, I have tried to objectify the purpose and the comments of the meeting, and I admit that I have not reached rational conclusions before that myself. If the purpose and purpose of this meeting is to prove and point out that in Slovenia, as elsewhere in all countries, especially in transition countries, there is a risk of clientism and corruption, then such an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is not necessary. When we passed the Anti-Corruption Act months ago, the government came from these findings, namely that there is also a risk of clientism and corruption in Slovenia. This is what we have stressed in our performances by representatives of all the parliamentary groups. The opposition is nothing more than a parliamentary group of government parties. Let me say that, on behalf of the United List, we have stressed that the tasks of combating corruption and customerism are of particular importance also because, at the time of the changes in the political and economic system, we have allowed the desire for profit and easy profit to have a broad understanding of the legality, especially sometimes very tolerant, legal and moral understanding of the permitted conduct as a result of increasing the assets of a smaller group of citizens to such an extent that most do not believe and cannot understand that this is possible only in a legitimate way, without breaking the laws or at least in the event of their abuse. And the underactivity of public authorities, which is common in such cases, raises doubts about social standards and fairly adopted laws or their implementation. If certain laws have been deliberately adopted to allow for the rapid and disproportionate enrichment of a small group against the majority, then it is also in such behaviour to find elements of corruption. So to say that the coalition does not acknowledge that this problem exists, that it does not care about it, is simply not true. So we all know the problem of corruption. We all know it. In order to establish this at the principal level, it is not necessary to refer to an extraordinary meeting. In addition to this month's meeting, we will be adopting a national anti-corruption programme in good 10 days, so we will talk about this issue not in principle, but about what we would do to address the causes and consequences of corruption. It's the other way around. To stress that we have and know in Slovenia cases where corruption and clientelism are indicated, to list these cases and to find that the suspicion of abuse in these cases has not been confirmed or rejected, since there is no final judicial epilogue to stress that we are not satisfied that this creates a sense of less efficiency in the work of the competent national authorities. That is also why an extraordinary meeting is not necessary. These 13 cases listed by applicants for the extraordinary meeting have already been mentioned in the means of public information. And everyone can attribute or write them to one place, but much more is not done in the material for the session. However, it may have been of benefit that these cases were mentioned, since it was possible to establish from the responses of the competent ministers that the cases were not true that they were completely without the action of the state authorities. It has been reported what the police have done, it has been reported what the prosecution has done, and it is not true that these cases are simply put under the table or put into the basket, only it is necessary to understand that certain procedures are needed to resolve things. If the proponents of this extraordinary meeting want to help clean up the affair, as they claim, that is what we would like to do, then in general and even in my opinion and belief, our Group has chosen the wrong and the wrong path. The affairs cannot be cleared at the meetings of the National Assembly. For example, meetings and meetings may only warn and require political action, a large majority of which, if not all of those cases, have already been done. Cases, if the involvement of public function holders is suspected, could also be cleared up through a parliamentary investigation. We know that it is not in this mandate, because it is not realistic to conclude matters, but perhaps in the next term if materials are collected and Members and Members assess them accordingly. Perhaps it would be worth trying and looking for good purposes, but when I listened to the initiators on behalf of the applicants to request a parent's work body, when I realized that it was mainly an impression that they were referring to the facts - that they were not mainly referring to the fact, but rather to the general impression that they really wanted to know some facts, I created a belief that, apart from procedural complications and demonstration of will, which was falsely portrayed as guilt, there was no other purpose than to speak in general about the problems and the poor situation in society - not with the aim of solving the problems. I have therefore accepted the fact that the applicants want only to apply the requirements, perhaps to abuse the business opportunities to create a lack of understanding between people and confusion, as long as possible to talk about cases that they do not know, about the guilt of people for whom they do not have evidence. They will talk for a long time, and perhaps all day long into the night, while protesting again that there is no time today or that there was no time yesterday, so that they can say everything they want to say and list many more, many cases that only they know. All with only one goal for all the weaknesses that exist, or for those that do not exist, for all the shortcomings in the system and in the practice that exist or are only imagined, and for all the concrete actions that no one may have done, because they do not offer any evidence, to accuse the general, coalition and some individuals of its kind, and that is all. And that's what we're trying to do today. It is all the responsibility of the coalition, the LDS and the United List, including those decisions taken at the time Demos ruled in that country. Also for those decisions that were taken at a time when the Slovenian People's Party, the former Slovenian Christian Democrats and the Slovenian Democrats or the SDS and then the Social Democrats had a significant share of government power. But it doesn't matter. The only thing we have blamed in this country in the last 15 years was the LDS and the United List, even at a time when the LDS, and especially the United List, were not in the government. In doing so, I would like to say two specific cases, one of which made me especially happy and the other one stabbed. The cheering words of the Minister of Economy Dr. Lahovnik concerning denationalisation. This question has not been mentioned for a long time, nor has it been mentioned since I stopped talking about it myself. However, the fact is, and we all know, that the last report of the compensation fund on this issue says that after 2005 the funds to cover the liabilities from the assets sold by the company will not be sufficient. And there will be over 10 billion tolars of funds needed and a completely unclear amount of funds to repay the funds already paid in cash in order to be the burden that taxpayers will have to pay. It is right to mention this, not because anything can be changed today, because probably after the vast majority of cases have been resolved, much can not be changed, but we do know what Slovenian taxpayers will also have to pay. And another such case that I would like to mention as negative. Let me not be offended, but the most moral right to talk about the problem of small shareholders, the owners of certificates, would have the United List and me personally. Throughout the past mandate, we have fought to find a system to ensure that these small shareholders and certificate owners receive at least an approximate proportion of the real resources they have invested in these companies in the form of a certificate. Even the opposition gentlemen, who today are banging on their chests, who should have done so, did not support us and let things flow as they were. The chairman of the commission who solved these issues was also from today's opposition parties; I do not want to name him by name, because I do not claim to be personally guilty, but the atmosphere that prevailed at the time did not want to help solve this issue in any way. And a lot of them could be listed. And now to condemn, the moral right to talk about it and say that some other coalition or government or some party was responsible for what happened. So without evidence to accuse or even condemn people, it is not only unfair and legally unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, even immoral. Without evidence to suggest that clientism or corruption already exists as a result of membership in a particular party, it can be nothing more than a reflection of its own conduct or methods of political action on others. And I hope to say that this is what ladies and gentlemen of the opposition are doing. But if the opposition's politicians really abuse each business relationship for their own personal and cliental purposes, as others claim to do, then they do not have the right to attribute such conduct to anyone else who does not. However, since I have found that the fact and evidence that creating an affair is often sufficient to record only accusations is not considered in the public at all, I have decided that, in the event of requests for this extraordinary meeting, we should do everything possible to clarify the cases, especially those cited by the opposition. Of course, these cases cannot be investigated at a meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, there are unrealistic deadlines, since within a month the situation cannot be properly analysed 15 years ago, as required. Of course, some requirements need to be changed in dictions in order to comply with the law. However, within these requirements, we have done everything possible to gather the desired and required data. And on the basis of these data, I think that they are gathered in real time, because if the deadline were instead of the end of September 15 August, it would be totally irrelevant for the National Assembly to assess whether it is worth setting up investigative committees to determine the responsibility of these officials or to prepare some proposals for changes to the system. And let me finish. The United List of Social Democrats, its Group of Members has no bad conscience that its members will act against morality and honesty at any time and in any way with the consent of the United Nations. In order to abuse their position in any way for party purposes or to prevent anyone in the United States from doing anything that would justly and objectively identify the guilt of anyone, even if he is a sympathizer or a member of a party. Therefore, the United List of Social Democrats also requires that matters be investigated.Any person who is guilty must answer, regardless of political affiliation or related relations. And don't make the illusion that there aren't any during the opposition who's yelling "get the thief" now. Therefore, the requirements should be made more concrete, as it is not possible to defend against all the general accusations made by the signatories to this request for an extraordinary meeting. And in this there is maliciousness and political immorality and the perversion of such accusations. They don't tell you what you did and what you're guilty of, but they condemn you in general and on average. And that's what this material has to do with you. I hope, and in the U.S. Charter, we will do everything we can to ensure that such a rejection of the opposition will not also become morale and the method of the work of this national assembly and even worse - this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u128	Thank you very much. With the performance by our colleague, we have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. You could be a little joking, a little bit telling me I have two news: bad and good. The bad news is that now 78 colleagues and colleagues are reported, which is a record. The good news is, many of them have already given up on the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the applicant has 120 minutes to reach out to the debate at any time, as well as to the Government. Anytime. And the third time. I have a report for two replicas. For two explanations. My colleague Rupar will first have his word on the performance by his colleague Wolf. Minister Gantar also wants to intervene. Minister Gantar, whose show? Master Petty Officer. You two have a word first. Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. In principle, I never discuss with persons under the age of 10 and those for whom it is generally felt that the intellectual quota does not exceed 60 units. But let me do it anyway. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Excuse me, who am I talking about? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u130	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u131	The point is, above all, in the statement made by Mr Vukko, when it comes to today's whole-day speech Mr President, can you please calm down Mr Jakič very nervous? [[...]] Mr. Jakič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u132	Can we lead the debate the way we have led it so far? Everyone who talks has the right to be free.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u133	The thing is, it's obvious about the millions and billions that we've heard today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u134	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u135	on millions and billions of obvious corruption proceedings, and I don't know what, Mr. Vukko finally added as a dot to the phrase in which he said: "And finally, why is it not on the list of all those procedures that have already ended or will and will be conducted against Paul Rupar, Mayor of Tržič and Member of Parliament?" [[...]] Well, that's what I'm replicating. Let me tell him in his bad comfort that I have never been condemned to this day, but it is not said twice if there are not two or three days. I have never been conditionally convicted, Mr Jakič, but it can happen that after this speech I am in two or three days, because there is very serious corruption, if not different, I can be political, but I do not believe it, I believe in justice. Now, of course, I say that certainly quite a few procedures have been introduced against me - by contrast, I also say why - 72 reports of suspicious transactions and so on the LDS have reported against me; your colleagues, that is, Vukko's colleagues from the police force have found three, say, the terms for which they have accused me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u136	Replica time is limited to three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u137	Wait a minute. Yes, Mr President, don't be nervous either. Let me tell you why this is happening. Because we're unequal before the law. We're completely unequal in the media, too. There's only one case I'll tell you. When suspicion or anonymity comes against someone who is not a member of the LDS, they write a lot about him, just like the newspapers - as Mr. Potræ said - which they condemn literally, look at the diary's website [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u138	Time's up, buddy Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u139	Just a little bit, Mr. President, to finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u140	Just a thought because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u141	Anonymous is about Mr. Kacin. Where does it say anything about him? Nothing. That's all I'm saying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u142	Comrade Rupar, you have no debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u143	You're aware of corruption, gentlemen, you're very aware of it. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u144	Comrade Rupar, you have no debate. I'll give you my word for the replica. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u145	I'm not arguing, just ten seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u146	No, you can't. Please, if you finish because I gave you my word because, under article 70, I believe you have this right, you were mentioned in the performance. I can't give you a word about the replica during the performance of the positions of the groups of Members, now I've given it to you. Mr. Gantar would like a word, unless you'd like a procedural one? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u147	However, I would like to see that, despite the fact that this point has been going on for several hours, that, given that eight hours and twenty-two minutes are still in place, Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure is being applied as it has been written, and as the Business Commission has already explained. Indeed, it is very clear: Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate - in round - [[replica]] , as far as this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted." And nothing else. The fact that someone mentioned someone has no connection, and I ask you to follow the rules of procedure, because otherwise we do not know whether it makes sense to do what we are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u148	I already gave it to please, buddy Jakič. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u149	Dear President, I protest. I'm protesting! I'm not nervous, but I get nervous when my colleagues start using personal disqualifications instead of arguments. And in Mr. Rupar's speech, there was a personal disqualification that one of our colleagues had 60 units. I think that you, as President, should not only warn Mr Rupar, but stop in such a debate. If Mr Rupargeli has something to say with arguments, not with the insults of his colleagues sitting in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u150	I have said many times that each of us has been given a mandate to be responsible for his word, as well as his colleague Rupar, that everyone must avoid words that could be understood as an insult. My friend Rupar didn't say that one of our colleagues had one of these. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] "Please, but we could understand that. Comrade Rupar, I'll give you my word only if you explain that you didn't mean it like that. Otherwise, we don't open the debate. Please. Is everything okay? Do you deny it? We can move on. As far as the interpretation given by colleague Anderlich is concerned, we have certainly done so, but we have already done so if, during the presentation of positions in the parliamentary groups, someone mentioned among colleagues that we have given him an opportunity among other parliamentary groups. I did the same thing today. However, I will stick to strict rules of procedure, as I have been trying all the time to reach the end of the debate. Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Petty Officer mentioned me twice. Two short replicas, that's why. First of all, it's about frequencies. Let me stress that we have answered all the answers regarding the frequency questions to the question. Let me point out once again that, at the time I run the Ministry of Information Society, all frequencies were broadcast through public tendering, no frequency was passed through the call for tenders. There is also an argument about if I say that someone has won something in privatisation, someone has lost something; this argument was a little more complicated for me and I hope that you understood it too - than how the privatisation took place using these certificates and with internal ownership. And the third case, as a comment concerning me, is Antonio Di Pietro, the judge, the prosecutor, the icon of Italian justice and the fight against corruption, still alive. And if memory doesn't fool me, I mean even, but I won't judge, he's running for European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u152	Let's go in the order you're reported. I will only mention those colleagues who have given up the debate so that you will know that you may be on your turn before you can expect it. Once again, the government and the proposer can intervene in the debate when they consider it appropriate. My friend Kangler has his first word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I would say that it was finally the turn of the debates that individual fellow Members, proposers and the government had. And I listened very carefully, honourable Members and Members, to the last representative of the United List's Group of Members, Mr Potrč, who, in some way, expressed in his performance that he found it funny in this National Assembly, that we are shortening the time when we are discussing such an important item in the agenda, corruption, today, and that the Chamber is half empty and that we are not. In a way, I also understood him as if he was looking to blame for the situation we had. And no one in this place today, in fact, even on the part of the proponents, has mentioned denationalisation and in denationalisation is looking for a way out, an excuse from everything else that has actually happened in society or in politics or in the Slovenian economy. That's why I'm a little funny when I think of his performance. He also mentioned the coalition and some backward coalitions that worked in governments. It is true that the Slovenian People's Party has acted in government, but frankly, and in this place I say publicly that we had extremely great problems right with the representative of the United List, Mr Ptræ, in some substantive aspects. And I am absolutely sorry that we have this coalition, where in some way the president in the shadow of this coalition is Mr Ptrč, given the reasons for the exclusion of the Slovenian People's Party from the coalition, has been sufficiently clear and loudly stated that Comrade Potrč has announced this before in fact certain events within the coalition have come to us that we must be erased from the government because of the deletions. I fully accept this and I do not regret that this has happened. I'm glad we found each other where we are. After all, if you don't find a common word on the content program and the content points, then you'd better leave this coalition. It is true, however, that we did not abandon it of our own free will, but because of the content and certain events, we did not agree with the skaters. My colleague, Potrč, would expect him to devote just as much time, content and effort as he has spent with his adviser, Krivice, in the case of the deleted, to some other problems of Slovenian society, among which we can also consider the problem of corruption, regardless of whether corruption comes from the opposition or the coalition. It doesn't matter at all. Indeed, honourable Members and Members, when you read thoroughly the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the agenda of the "problem of corruption, clientism and money laundering", you can find that the applicants cited in some of the points mainly the affairs that were not caused by the opposition or the Slovenian policy, but were caused by the most responsible persons who were employed in these companies and were probably also created by political relations. On these matters, however, it is necessary that yes, my colleague, when you look at me like that, some have been politically set up or with political ties and should also be accepted and treated as such. [[...]] In this place, when some talk about time cuts and they find it funny, I think it is important that if some other branches of government are not capable of some phenomena, which are a problem of Slovenian society and also some statistics, it is important for them to speak in the Slovenian Parliament, both by the opposition and by the coalition. But it does not seem right to me that every time we have a national council - some of you act as lawyers and some of you act as prosecutors. Above all, it seems to me that the debate should be held in the National Assembly, either in the parliamentary investigative commissions, regardless of the option from which one comes, democratically and through democracy and parliamentaryism this relationship should be slightly different. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we first heard our interlocutors, our fellow Members, who mention investigative commissions. Tell me one investigative commission in the last ten years that has reached its goal that some of the things that have been the subject of the inquiry committee have reached the epilogues. Give me an example! Not a single case. And I would say that when we monitor this and watch it after eight years of working in Parliament, I hope with all my responsibility and seriousness to say that we are not yet in a true democratic society, given that no suitable person has been investigated or received a judicial epilogue, as far as some investigative commissions are concerned. However, if we look a little differently, we might find that there are a lot of affairs, economic affairs that have recently taken place from SIB Banka, Sigma, Orion to some of the bankruptcys of the savings banks to some of the other data proposed by the proponents in the hearing, even though in the first indent, when they speak, the theft occurred on the day due to complaints of the affected. In a way, I could agree with them that complaints and affairs have actually come on the day that some of them have anchored their sails too deeply and, regardless of the constitution, laws and judicial branch of power that is present with us, and because of the constant practice that has never and never happened to anyone, they have not received a judicial epilogue, and that is what some are doing. And if you think it is shameful to speak in the Chamber today and in Parliament if any of the individual members of any government party, member of any administration of these companies or of any personal involvement in the affair, so that it is not necessary to initiate a judicial procedure or to have a judicial epilogue, you are damn wrong. My heart hurts when I remember those times, the times of independence, when most of the Slovenian people were for us to secede from the former South. But there were some people who were opposed to it, and one would have democratically accepted that at the time and today. But when you get a good look at this list today and when you're writing the archive, and when you take your time and sit in the library and read some of the Slovenian media from those days, you can find that it is those who at the time opposed the independence that have great positions and influences and functions today. And then when you think about it, and when you think about it, and when you go back in memory of some of the events, you can become appalled at all these things. And when we are talking about some of the affairs proposed by the group of Members that there is a need to speak in Parliament, such as the Red Cross, Elan, example Friday, New Ljubljana Bank, SIGMA, fund to build a new paediatric clinic, Viator and Vector, purchase and sell systemic techniques, the City Assembly, SIB, Orion, Falcon, Zbiljski Gaj, Insurance Office Triglav, the bankruptcy manager of Pompé and could still list, one could say that we are allowing time and hope in a democratic country to be known for all these affairs that have been listed here. However, if we turn back from memory, please tell me, in the last ten years or eight years, one of the major Slovenian entrepreneurs or presidents of the boards of society has been criminally accused of what crime the police have proposed, and has achieved a judicial epilogue. And if we went to the Age, who is sitting at the Age today or in the last ten years after the structure and statistics on education, we could see that there is no crime among highly educated people, especially among those who are today directors or responsible persons, as if there is no crime, as if such do not deserve incarceration, nor other educational measures, as if we were a country where only the biggest criminals are poor people working in factories that work with a secondary or primary school that do not have a profession and statistics in their own right are funny. This, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, should be taken into account and understood. See, statistics, the structure of Slovenian prisoners who have been in prison for the past ten years, honest people among highly educated people, including all of us. But I'm sure that's not the case, given the criminal charges filed with the police. However, if I compare criminal charges against economic crime, I will also talk about this later, as the Minister himself said in his debate, that he would accept the criminal service of 20 criminals, who would be particularly vulnerable to economic crime. Dear colleagues, 20 criminals on 13 police administrations! What are they gonna do? Before a criminalist comes, he acquires an education, an experience which, at least approximately the level of those criminals who carry out economic crime, lasts at least five to ten years to learn the system and the crime in order to be able to prove it to some. I am also very disappointed when I reviewed some of the conclusions proposed by the Internal Policy Committee, a complementary proposal for conclusions. What I'm trying to say is that these conclusions, given the extraordinary session, given the content we have on the table today, are not acceptable to me. For me, however, it is not acceptable because of the time that the Government, some government institutions, should be given by a decision in the State's office to reply to all these questions, either coalitions or opposition, within four months at the latest, to send a comprehensive report on the movement of bankruptcy cases. The Government shall send a comprehensive report to the National Assembly no later than four months on the introduction of forecasting procedures related to bankruptcy proceedings. The Government shall send a comprehensive report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia within 4 months at the latest. Yeah, who's making a fool out of who? At that time, this house will be in the largest run-up to the national elections, late September or October. And to whom and in what way will someone report? New elections and new compositions of the National Assembly? The authorities will switch. Will she stay the same? Something's probably gonna get mixed up. I don't know who or how he's gonna report. Will those who may be in opposition or coalition be reported? I think it's funny. And I also find it funny that if we could also invite other representatives of civil society and certain institutions to either the Internal Policy Committee or some other committees, it would not be in dispute for me to invite any of those mentioned to the Internal Policy Committee. I'm not saying a state council meeting. Perhaps we can defend ourselves from those who have signed up to them that they are involved in an affair in one way or another. However, if they are afraid to face facts and arguments, the second question is whether the President cannot or does not wish to invite some of those mentioned to the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. I would also like to know, in this paper and in the content of the debates of individual Members at the previous extraordinary meeting, whether the new president of the so-called Drago Kos Commission has already taken note of this material and if he has already taken action. It would be very interesting, as president, to have Mr Penk from the office here, but I think the president was elected in the National Assembly. However, statements have already been made in public and in my opinion also provide some such or other answers, which are probably not raised on its platter. I would also be very interested in his views and actions, given that he did not receive support from this side and that he received support only from DeSUS, the United Nations and Liberal Democracy in the National Assembly and others, if he acted and acted as he did here, he signed a document and also a statement behind this stage. The old saying: The crow doesn't turn its eyes out. The proposers also propose and mention the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank as well as certain supervisory councils. Here I must make it clear to myself that I fully agree with the applicants, as regards supervisory boards in banks and some insurance companies, that this is a very pressing problem. In fact, the influence to have, who and how can put someone in the supervisory board of the bank, frankly, the governing government set up its supervisory councils according to its judgement. A fine example was the Maribor New Credit Bank, which is wholly owned by the State and in what way, I know exactly, members of the Supervisory Board have been recruited. The members of the Slovenian People's Party in the coalition had no influence on the choice. My friend Anderlič, we didn't have one, I put a lot of pressure on it because I don't care if the Maribor bank sells itself with a Maribor insurance company and it's not going to be state-owned anymore. We had no influence because someone wanted to have the control world completely subordinated. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't tell me. Not Booth, not a likeness. We know how and who came. You're not gonna convince me here, Comrade Anderlich. It is true, however, that in this national council, Comrade Anderlič, you have an important influence in the Liberal Democracy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u154	There's no controversy in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u155	Complaints with benches [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u156	I've warned you this a hundred times. It's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u157	I think it is fair, and also responsible, for my part, that I also respond to the comments that the President-in-Office of the European Union has spoken to me. [[...]] And if Anderlič has influence in the Liberal Democracy, given that he has a very strong function, not only is he the leader of the largest parliamentary government group, but he also has a client function, it is very important what will happen with the Maribor Bank and with the insurance company Triglav, what will be the decision of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It is true that the jet, in this place the Prime Minister has provided us with a second financial pillar in Maribor, but there will be nothing from this pillar, because they are waiting for elections to be held in the National Assembly, to strengthen the LDS, so that they will be given a mandate, so that they can do as they please with the Maribor bank and also with the Maribor insurance company. And I'll tell you here today, if they get a good result, they're going to attach a Maribor insurance company to Sava's reinsurance company. But the Maribor Bank will go on sale. This would have happened, this second financial pillar should have been strong through, but official policy, government policy does not get it through, because it calculates with elections and a new mandate and with new support, so that it can do what it wants. And if that's not the case, believe me, today we can talk not about corruption, but about legal corruption. The state, the government, is allowing corruption. All authorities allow corruption, is it legal corruption or can you appease your Vice-President, given that he knows the rules of procedure well, but he is disturbing his fellow Member? [[...]] I think it's unfair, colleague Irma, on your part, that you're the vice president and you're telling me to stop talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u158	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u159	If you don't care about Koroška, I don't care about Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u160	Please, Comrade Kangler. Peace in the hall! I'm asking for peace in the hall. Every speaker has the right to be intruding in his deliberations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u161	When we are talking about corruption and some affairs, there is also a minister who "passed" the interpretation in this National Assembly. Just remember what this was all about. Someone took us so overnight during parliamentary vacations of Drava power plants with large capital to Ljubljana, and we became large, according to the local word, servants in north-eastern Slovenia. We have no influence on this capital, we have no influence on financial transfers, the money turns to its own, and the question is, what and how did it happen in the background of the ownership or purchase of these Drava power plants and who and how they were picked up. Because the minister doesn't have time to go to Maribor or any other place at the meetings of the holding company that he founded. And that's a serious problem. And all that is is also the result of such and different affairs that accumulate where there is capital, where there is political power and will and where there are politically concentrated personnel. In this place, I cannot claim, however, to blame Mr Golobic for his guilt, as the signatories tell him. But if there's any truth to it, I think there was someone else above him who let him do it. It's probably not just one person's fault for everything, it's probably more. And when we look at the matter and the Mira Petk affair, when we talk about the seventh force, the respected colleague and colleague, if not the political public, if I may say so, put pressure on some authorities in the country, to such an epilogue, where we don't know what the result will be. And in my opinion, Mr Petek was still fortunate that a very important journalist would probably not have paid such attention if he had been in any other watch. And it would be very interesting to ask some journalists in that seventh force, if I may say that they are slightly younger, have slightly different views on Slovenia, Slovenian democracy and the economy, and what their problems and conflicts with some editors are in writing articles and who and how they dictate the pace of certain articles. Exactly when you read an article, one or the other, where someone "feeds" and how these articles come to be published. And I have listened very carefully to some ministers who have responded to some of the statements of the signatories concerning corruption. And we've talked a lot specifically to some accurate data, so now I'm going to have the pleasure of serving as well. And when I spoke earlier about the Minister of the Interior, Mr Bohinc, I have all the respect for him, I think there is no way that Mr Bohnic is solving the problem of corruption in Slovenia in such a way as to hire 20 criminals for economic crime. In the first place, the government should ensure that 200 professionals are employed in economic crime if it is to achieve at least the approximate effect it wishes. Twenty criminals on 13 police administrations mean absolutely nothing. If Slovenia did not have a problem hiring an additional thousand or two thousand police officers for the Schengen border, Slovenia should also not have a problem hiring an additional two hundred criminals for the reputation of Slovenia in order to go higher on some scales, including those of corruption, after research and all that. And if anyone knows how to become a criminalist and there is a successful criminalist who can investigate a crime and press charges against the prosecution, believe me, it takes a few years for someone, but I don't underestimate anyone completely, takes all their time, and even a person who wants a criminal profession needs his time, his education, to be a successful criminalist, to be able to pursue any affairs that we bring here today. Because an affair such as Orion, such as the SIB, one criminalist or five criminals working on economic crime cannot prove or lead to the initiation of prosecution proceedings. That's not working. These are too extensive documentation. Physically, five criminals can't do that. And if we're talking about some things today, and as I said, I'm going to highlight the exact data of some transfers, let's say I'm going to mention the copyright contract or the copyright contract of Mrs Štefka Korada Purk. Who is Mrs. Stefka Korada Purk? Secretary-General at the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs Štefka Korada Purk is in some way also connected with one political party. Are you afraid of what I'm going to say, colleague Irma? I will say that the author's contract has Mrs Štefka Korada Purk to perform the seminars referred to in the first, second, third and fourth indents of Article 1, 25 thousand tolars per hour, a gross pedagogical hour. It's like 45 minutes. At the time of work, when she is regularly employed at the Ministry of the Interior. Now I'm asking you. Is it fair to those police officers who work overtime but don't get paid overtime, or to those science doctors, with academic addresses that teach themselves the 25 grand of teaching hours, 45 minutes, they can't afford it? But it's interesting. But if I look at another professor's contract, which is a doctor of science, let's say a psychologist at the administrative academy, Mr. Peter Umek, and he's got 15 grand gross for this job. Well, he's got an academic address. Because he's not in the right party. That's right. Or he doesn't have the right support. However, if we look further, the director of police still has time to teach in the face of such problems that we hear today, and to get as much as 25 thousand dollars an hour, a teaching hour of 45 minutes, it seems to me that it is somewhat controversial, respected colleagues and colleagues. And if I mention another lady, who I don't want to mention by name and last name, I will say her name is only Jadranka, and she has a contract for 25 thousand tolars. Without an academic title, for exactly the same work as some other professors, doctors of science, with the Ministry of the Interior. And if I talk about it in this place, it's a problem that it's not a topical day, that it's normal if the secretary-general is working there at the ministry, he goes to a high-level law school or an administrative academy at the time of his job. And he's getting $25,000 in fees. Where are the college professors? Where are the doctors? How some of them reacted when doctors were on call at the same time and also performed certain functions. In view of the enthusiasm it generated in the hall, especially on the LDS page and some in the United List, you gave me your answer. If you're in the right political option, there's hours for lectures like this, but if you're in the second political option, you get 10,000 tolls per teacher's class less, it says, you only get 15,000. And if you think that's normal, okay, no problem. People will re-elect you with such tariffs during work and with some things you will be able to move on. I am speaking in particular because there are also many civil servants among these contracts who are also listed with much higher personal benefits, fees, and many of you who are sitting here or who are sitting in the government today, and no one is talking about this. I want every job paid fair and square. I agree with that. However, I do not know people who would be in the public service, but especially in the public administration of such important functions, who could perform two functions at the same time or be employed there or on the other hand. My friend Anderlich! I'm tolerant, no. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u162	Look, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u163	I heard your voice, though. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Of course, with my colleague Jakich, if I'm wrong [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u164	My friend Kangler, can you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u165	I apologize to you in this place. [[...]] If I'm wrong about this place, I'll apologize. But if you want, I can also talk about some things, and I can also talk about certain things in particular. However, it is not my intention to discriminate in this place and in this way, when I am here today discussing which one of the individuals is still, in such a way that I do not have the opportunity, to discriminate, or to give him no opportunity to defend myself. I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... I'm so... When I listened to the Minister of Economy, he talked about the positive trends of Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy. Of course he's right. The statistics are accurate. That's exactly what they're showing. At the same time, I would ask him, given that the doctor of science and expert and analyst is in this area, what is wrong, but that trends in some regions are completely different, as they are in the central region. And why development aid that promotes the economy in those regions is planned by systemic laws, so that at least those regions that are somewhat neglected in development, in unemployment and after the social crisis would not bring at least an appropriate basis, such as, say, in the central region. And while we're at it, corruption, my fellow minister probably hasn't even fully learned that the attempt of some such corruption, when one of the individuals wanted to get through the government procedure and through the national assembly -- and that some of the individual members of the LDS sitting here today didn't let go through -- let's say, the law on branding weapons and verification -- it's from your area where someone would like to gain in such a way that they wouldn't do anything, like just get a chance to review. And before the government adopted or considered a bill, already this gentleman, who relied on this concession, had a certified price list from the Economic Chamber for the Review of Certain Pieces of Arms, if I am not mistaken, 4,500 tolars with VAT. Before he was awarded a concession and before the government even considered the proposal for a law that the Ministry of Economy had considered or proposed. Now there is a new law, another law, and in a way I am grateful to all those fellow Members from another political option, who in some way prevented such a law from going through this national assembly at all, and I am not ashamed to say what is good in this place, and if anyone has prevented it from speaking in this place, even though it is from another party. As mentioned in this Act, respected colleagues and colleagues could also mention so-called stickers that are printed for registration of vehicles that are attached to windscreens. I don't mind if the 1,500 tolls you're paying for your takeover, the state, because it gave someone a concession to print these stickers, gets the main one. However, the country receives from that $1,500 toll sticker only VAT, 20% service tax, and the rest is mainly collected by the printer. The purchase value of the label, however, I do not think it is more than 200 to 300 tolls per piece. I know my friend Jakič, who and how she stands for the fact that the registration sticker went into circulation. If you are so brave, Comrade Jakič, tell me who of your party had the most interest when the Minister of the Interior was also his time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u166	My colleague Jakič can't answer that question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u167	Since he's talking to me and he knows a lot about this label. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u168	You have the word and no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u169	I could do that. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u170	Let's calm down, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u171	Member of the Commission. [[...]] And if you find it funny when you're standing in line on registration for personal vehicles or other vehicles, and people, by their own words, swear by Members who, more or less with this label, had nothing, because this is a submarital act, was adopted, and when you hear who and how the godfather of this sticker and what kind of money this sticker carries, then you ask yourself whether it was a political influence, whether it was a lobbying of some business, but it was literally about, as in Styria, saying, "the beating of Slovenian citizens in a way that someone made a good profit." When I'm stopped by a cop, I'm still being asked for a traffic permit and the windshield sticker doesn't even change. And that's all I'd say at the end. I have spoken many times in the National Assembly about uneven development, about the neglect of some Slovenian places, about regions compared to others. With all the responsibility and seriousness in this place, I hope to state that even part of the bottling of all the fact that we have unevenly developed places towards central Slovenia has been promoted by individuals in some political options, which have in no way allowed experts from elsewhere into the government. I know that a lot of people, when I mention it, make fun of him that he literally doesn't care when you walk the streets, like the city of Maribor, even the neighborhoods, and when you listen to them, and when they tell you, two months or three months before the elections, we got a ministerial office in Maribor. Finally, someone remembered. Where were the ministers four years before there was no minister's office? And also in some other Slovenian places, three months before the elections, respected colleagues, or four. Indirectly and unfairly to us, which are a little far from central Slovenia, from the largest center. And when you look at statistics like that, we have a lower quality of life than some others, and when you compare the net personal income according to statistics, which are 30 or 40,000 dollars a month on an individual employee less than those in central Slovenia, and when you calculate that the spouse, husband and wife, on a monthly basis 80,000 dollars less on average than some other regions, that they have 80,000 dollars less for tuition, for hairdressers, for purchases, for a month, that this is a poor million, and I can tell you frankly that this Slovenian policy and also the fight against such or another system and corruption will have to go slightly differently than it does now. And when one party has been in power for too long, I know that some individuals are being strengthened. They are politically strengthened and it is difficult for someone from Koroška, Prekmur or Stajerska to come to any visible public office, minister or director of any important fund in central Slovenia. However, Members and Members, regardless of where the options come from, on these measures to ensure the quality of life in Slovenia as a whole, and to reduce uneven regional development between regions, if not us or those who will be elected and given a mandate by the Slovenian voters for the next period, will have to cut deeply into this ice and ensure all of these things that I have mentioned today. And that would end my performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u172	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u173	Your Honor! If anyone has previously questioned that today's meeting is a matter of urgency and urgency, then he will surely be convinced today that this is a serious threat to the institution of legitimate parliamentary law, that we can unquestionably conclude that if the last time the central theme was at least wrapped up in a set of some legal solutions offering a better solution to this country's cases, it is clear today that it is a bare repetition that the requirements of the previous session are, in fact, copied, that we can expect, by this logic, that this national assembly will, by the end of the term of office, be translated into a single extraordinary session and that the old matters will be repeated, in particular with the excuse of dissatisfaction over the management of the session, the taking of the word, the limitation of the word and so on. And what is most important is that those who have been together for many years until yesterday, and now, of course, are talking about fundamental changes in the way the government operates, the way institutions operate, and other branches of government, and so on. Of course, it could be a legal political move, no one doubts that. Otherwise, it is legitimate, in my view, because, of course, if we have a grave definition of legitimacy, then we can certainly find out that it is not in conformity with the fundamental political principles of democracy and the rule of law. The opposition, as potential future authorities, no doubt go beyond the rights that allow it to take account of its voice worth or enough to be heard in the public eye. There are few such rights in our Parliament, I would say, on the contrary, very large and very loose are the instruments that provide for such possible promotions and evidence, from unlimited opportunities for the call for referendums, the convening of extraordinary meetings, the interpretation of the work of the government and the ministers and the introduction of parliamentary investigations, the right to place on the agenda one law each opposition group, which means that it is not a little of its own choice. You will find few parliaments in Europe where any law from the opposition comes on the agenda, not just to be adopted. Of course, control over intelligence services, budget control, working body management and so on. In short, these instruments are large. It is also probably true that the parliamentary majority must have the right to manage its official function, rather than being constantly digging in a quasi-investigation designed by various architects of emergency situations who would like to see them in this country fail. It is easier and easier to investigate corruption, customerism, money laundering at extraordinary parliamentary meetings, on an unspecified agenda without evidence, without anything under the coat of immunity for every word spoken. How many have been here today, how many have there been in all these extraordinary meetings. Involve companies, individuals of a kind, in various contentious matters, and therefore there is no need to explain anything to anyone, just with a finger, and everything is fine. I think it's irresponsible work here. There have been more than ten alleged cases of dispute in the material for today’s session. V, they are all most important and unfair in this matter, given to the same denominator, from the case of Friday, to the case of Elan, to the case of SIB, as far as the case goes, I don't know which one. Far from being connected, they are all, of course, explosive, each and every one of them, because that's how you define them with your high-pitched words, but yet they're far away, far away from each other and they're not connected. Find me one link from the first point to the thirteenth point, that the same participants, that these are equal cases, are some things that are simply not possible here. I believe that it is possible to rewrite each of these cases with a similar chorus, there has been no legal proposal anywhere in sight, no investigation has been made, the procedure has not moved anywhere so far. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, how would you move these things, what would you do? Urgent courts, would you take over the functions of the prosecutor's office of investigative organs, etc., courts, would you do that? I believe they're doing the will. But I'm aware that we don't live in perfect company. So I don't know the country to root out the side of the road or even the crime. There is no law that could foresee and further sanction possible abuse, so of course it is necessary to adapt all legislation and regulations to the reality and needs of the police, the prosecution, the courts, and, most importantly, to enable these institutions to work independently, professionally and effectively. However, if he is merely accusing himself, people in some way threaten to do so in their independence and in their integrity hold that they are doing their work properly. We do not intend to accept the role that the opposition is listening to us and that it is apparently acting itself or would like to play, the role of some sort of Inquisition where its suspects must prove their innocence, not the other way around. But we do know how these things are designed and how they must be in the rule of law. Slovenia is not a police country where a party in power would order whom should be suspected, imprisoned and convicted. I hope that this is also not a pre-election strategy for this opposition, because otherwise I do not know where this country is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u174	Comrade Janš, you want to be a proponent, is this a replica, what is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u175	No, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u177	What government representatives and some representatives of the parliamentary groups of the government coalition have said earlier. Even earlier, I would say that in Slovenia we have a real power that is unknowablely skilled. At our previous emergency session, we experienced a time limit, a TV block, because national hockey was transmitted. This is being carried out today, but contrary to the original decision, the College is expected to continue its meeting until morning without interrupting at 10 a.m., as is normal, and to continue working tomorrow. But in order to prevent people from monitoring it, because they have jobs tomorrow and also have to rest, it is decided to work until the end, for the first time, I think, at such length of the meeting in the history of the Slovenian state. You're making an emergency situation with this way of working. As far as I'm concerned, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u178	Comrade Evil, please, you don't have a word! Peace in the hall! Comrade Janš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u179	As for the statements made by the government representatives, first of all, what Mr Minister for the Information Society said, Mr Gantar. He said if there really was as much corruption in telecommunications as you say, then Mobile wouldn't be a successful company. Any company that initially has a monopoly such as that of Mobil, especially before domestic competition, because you had to open up before abroad because of pressure, but also late, would be a successful company. The SDS.si website, Mr. Gantar, publishes economic analysis and comparisons of companies in the telecommunications industry and this comparison, you can look at it, says that telecommunications companies dealing with GSM telephony have an unsuitable market share such as that of Mobile in Slovenia. Mobil in Slovenia also generates undue profits, as shown. However, that they are not shown or that they are not in the balance sheet at the end, it is the fault that these profits flow in between through different transactions, especially before Sveme, a known company, that the whole of Slovenia, the Agency 41 and many other companies know, and, of course, those who place key people in the supervisory worlds and the head of this company or on which these people depend. This is, above all, the Liberal Democracy. And also this saying, how successful and so forth, we have said for the last time that we have no objection to the success of the company, thank God, we are only sorry that we do not have at least two such successful domestic companies, because we could have them if we did not artificially prevent competition from happening in the first place. As a result, of course, the contracting authorities have paid more for long years than if they had domestic competition from the very beginning. If you claim otherwise, you say that the basic legality of the market economy is not respected. That is what we have heard in this hall, or such a message has sometimes come from this hall that competition is not cheap. But this theory has failed and I ask that it no longer be sold in the early 21st century. We are talking about this, and the session is also convened because it is observed far away, 100 kilometers away, that someone from the hen is stealing chickens. And when we open up this subject, the Minister for the Information Society comes in and talks about how the chickens carry these big eggs. We know that these are big and good eggs, and we have not called for an extraordinary session to discuss the quality of these eggs, but to close those niches through which they are stolen from the henhouse. Of course, it is undesirable to discuss this. Dear Minister for the Information Society, you say that the product currently marketed by Ultra has been developed in fact already in the co-operation of two public companies, some private companies for two different products and that testing has shown that the product that Mobile has co-developed and has also paid for it and then obtained a number of these products, that testing has shown that these are not right things, that they do not work, that they are not good. If that were true, then of course Mobile wouldn't buy this product. I wouldn't buy 100 or 200, or 300 pieces, but at that stage, when things were really being tested before it was discovered and signed that things were working, the project failed. But that didn't happen. There is complete written documentation. Cases are brought before a court for the damages of those who have been injured here, which proves that this has been the case. But it is true that the products that she then sold to Mobile Ultra, by having Mobile in the warehouse, and still has, products that he has developed himself, which can be peacefully confirmed by the Mobile engineers who participated in the development, that the products and devices they bought from Ultra have not worked for a long time and have problems now. That's all there is to it, and we're not saying anything. In addition, I have previously shown a contract in which the parties, together with Mobile, signed everything, note that the matter is made to work, that it is ready for marketing. Don't tell me it didn't work. That's you painted, the ones who told you that. I now ask the Government what it has done, when the court, on the second occasion, found in the Ranc v. State judgment, not only that a state official on the police, Mr Kos, illegally and unlawfully obtained copies of phone calls on the Mobile, but also found that this company was illegally owned by the state, without a court decision. We ask the government to whom this public company still gives such phone statements without a court decision. Has anyone in that case, which has now been proved in court, been in charge of any criminal proceedings against the responsible person of the state-owned company who handed over these extracts? Are these people still employed and still doing the same thing? Do those of the Liberal Democracy who are regular guests there also receive these extracts? Are we safe from this? As long as there is no answer to the question of what happened to those for whom the court has found that these phone records were unauthorized, we can only find that we are not living in a country where our phone calls would be secure via a state-owned company. I'm asking you for answers to these questions. As far as Minister Bohinc's remarks are concerned - on a quick count - the police have filed a very large number of complaints in all these cases listed here. Unfortunately, in many cases, the Minister did not say that these allegations were outdated, that nothing had happened. And we have learned very little about epilogues in further implementations, especially by the Minister of Justice. However, the Government did not deny the basic contention of the applicants that in any of these cases there was no legal conviction of those who had taken responsible decisions. The Minister of the Interior said that one trial had been completed, namely that an appeal had been dropped concerning the purchase of a police boat. This trial was probably concluded in this way, but it is necessary to know here that the police have filed an indictment against the police, and there is a great question of how they wrote an indictment against themselves, indeed. This case has absolutely nothing to do with it. However, he maintains Mr Bohinc's argument that there is probably no evidence that it would be different for the Ministry of the Interior not to order a study on how senior officials are politically defined in the state administration. However, the Ministry of the Interior has this research, because we got it there, at the Ministry of the Interior. And it's no secret, Mr. Jakič, it was made by a registered institute. There's nothing wrong with this research being done. It's shocking. Of the leading officials in the state administration who are politically defined, who say they are party members, 38% belong to Liberal Democracy and 24% to the United List. Thus, two thirds of those politically defined belong to two of the biggest government parties who have been in power for a long time. These are the people who decide on public procurement, these are the people who decide on billions. This is a framework that increases the potential risk of clienteleism. With regard to the results we wanted to hear, with regard to the open cases listed, I must say that we are disappointed. The fact that the suit was filed, that's not the result for me. This means that perhaps a criminal who was doing well at that basic stage of his research and effort. And it's no problem for these people, except they're too few. The problem is with their bosses and their political will, what is being done and where they are being sent, and in further stages where something is being disposed of at every stage. From the Minister of Home Affairs and also from other government representatives, we have not heard any information about this, but I would ask that you now confess it, if you have it, to how many of these tens of thousands of people who have been harmed in these wild bankruptcys of various savings houses and businesses, any of their assets that have been lost by these procedures, which you have faithfully performed, as you say, have been returned. Who got anything back from those tens of thousands? At least 100,000 people have been harmed in all these affairs listed here. Give me ten of them that got something back when you were so successful in bankruptcy. Nowhere did we find any indication that this recovery was done or that anything had happened. Like in the case of Sicura, the Kranj Savings House, the bankruptcy of TAMA Metal, Automontage, etc. The only consequence was that the property that had accumulated had been manipulated and lost many times by the bankruptcy managers, while the workers had lost everything. We would also like to hear from the Minister of the Interior if he can assure us that even in this case, which is happening now, when you give people SLO plates for passenger cars, it is not a strange thing. These tables will no longer be valid in Europe from the first January of the following year, according to information received by us at the foreign ministry, because Slovenia has received the registration or the sign of SVN or SI, the SLO does not have Slovenia, nor Slovakia. Nevertheless, anyone who wants a new table will be issued a so-called European table with the wrong label, although we know for years that this label will not apply. Please tell people they don't give these plates because next year they're going to have to change this if they want to drive around Europe. Does anyone here serve why this is happening? As we've verified, people know, the government knows this won't work, and from there we've got this information. It would be desirable for the government to say something about this subject. With regard to the performance of the Minister of Economy, we can only conclude that the government, instead of the minister, has received a Commissioner, I think not only in terms of a member of the European Commission, but someone who has been cheered up by the United List in particular. I do not know why denationalisation should be discussed here. This is really not a topic, but we can put this item on the agenda, because after ten years the matter is still not closed. And this is one of the greatest disgraces in Europe. As regards the international research mentioned in this paper, which Mr Lahovnik has practically made very much use of. Maybe it is, but maybe it isn't. We can only find that some completely objective scientificly credible, good research cannot be done by anyone other than Mr Niko Toš, who is paid by the government. These studies are excellent, credible, and I suggest that you continue to lean on them, of course. However, international research into internationally recognised institutes, which are taken into account everywhere, is lacking. That's very, I'll say, a good trip to work in the government. As for the harassment of government representatives, how everything goes by law, how we are all the same before the law, how it doesn't matter whether someone is a member of a government party or not, how the law treats it the same, I must say that it does not. The representative of the Liberal Democracy Group mentioned earlier our former ministerial and parliamentary colleague, Dr. Zagognožn, that he was doing everything during a few months' ministry and the corruption he had been there and why we should not mention it. As against the only minister in this country, although he was only a few months old, LDS officials are on trial because his successor rejected a computer order in 2000 and reported him to the law enforcement authorities. And you've been very hasty about it. Last time we told you what's going on with this company that's supposed to go bankrupt right now and those computers were purchased. She's proven to be sponsoring the United List. Last time we presented the evidence, you can look at it again. But anyway, there's a procedure going on here, respectable colleagues, and it'll be seen. But there is no other procedure against any other minister, but there are billions of cases, no proceedings against Mr Golobic, no proceedings against any influential official from any government party. That's why [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't ask me why we haven't mentioned the case. Because you're all dealing with it. The former Attorney General personally intervened that the case had run as quickly as possible and that the matter would have been processed before the next elections. The following example, which I will present, shows very clearly that these allegations by government representatives, how we are all equal before the law, simply in Slovenia, unfortunately, do not hold. It's very typical, it's not lonely, but I'm asking you briefly to listen. It began in 2001, as soon as this new government was formed with a large majority of the Liberal Democracy, in Piran, when a Slovenian farmer went to extend the passport. On the administrative unit in Piran, he saw an invitation to tender on the notice board, as Hotels Piran sell agricultural land, a lot of agricultural land near the plot, where he already owned it. This is located in Strunjan, it is 10,000 square meters, just off the coast on an ideal location. Hoteli Piran is owned by a national financial company. The price of the square metre of this land was the one that, of course, attracted attention and that is why this Slovenian farmer then applied, and it was 580 SIT per square metre, along the Slovenian coast. Well, an ordinary citizen applied for this invitation, which was on the notice board on the administrative unit. He was the only bidder to meet the conditions, but he received a few days later, on 17 December 2001, a letter from Hoteli Piran, which reads as follows: "Honored! We confirm the receipt of your offer and the exercise of the preliminary right to property in Strunjan, Salinera, which were published on the notice board of the administrative unit Piran under number 466/97-2001. Unfortunately, we must inform you that these properties have already been sold under the purchase contract of 17.9.2001 to a gentleman - it is one of the leading officials of Liberal Democracy - and to Sponcor, d.o.o., which is also owned by the former fiscal officer of the Liberal Democracy, who has already paid part of the purchase. The announcement on the billboard was merely a formality which must be fulfilled by law." The man applied for this formality, thinking he was living in a state of law, but he received this answer that the land had already been sold, partly already paid, and he was bought by two functionaries of the Liberal Democracy without the invitation to tender being published at all. It'll all come, dear fellows. 21.2. - because this is just the beginning of the story - if only this happened, I would say the matter did not work and it was repaired, but it was only the beginning of the calvary of the one who was supposed to be the same in this country before the law. On 21 February 2002, the administrative unit Piran then fairly cancelled or did not approve the deal between the Piran Hotels, the LDS senior official and Sponcor owned by another former LDS official if they did not meet the conditions. Someone who has the status of a farmer has come forward, the only one in time, and the others are out. If anything has been concluded before, it does not apply. But the company still didn't want to make a deal with the skater, and he went to court, and on 14 May 2002, the Piran District Court issued a legal decision that the Piran Hotels must sell the land to the farmer. On 14.5.2002, this court decision was legally binding, but soon thereafter this farmer received a threat from the administrative representative of both LDS officials, which states that they are seriously proposing to withdraw from the contract, since otherwise it is submitted to the acquisition of land with a very uncertain end. However, since the District Court ordered the company to conclude the contract, this contract was concluded, notified to the tax administration, contributions were paid, the Ministry of Defence gave its consent and the purchase was paid afterwards. On 23.7.2002, the Piran administrative unit gives its consent, approves the real estate transaction and the decision becomes legally binding on that day. That was 23.7.2002. But three days later, 26.7.2002 Hotels Piran sent a letter to the farmer to withdraw from the contract, saying that in the complex that he was supposed to buy, there are 900 square meters more land that had not been found before, and of course there are even 1,400 square metres of building land in this set, which is something else in tolars or euros. Of course, they knew all along at the Piran hotels, since the same urban plans were in place at the time of the sale process, only before it was packed so that someone would get some special pearls in the package. On 5.11.2002 the municipality of Piran Hotel Piran published urban information. Of course, there were pressures, meetings, attempts to force a person to withdraw from the contract and so on. When this did not happen, the municipality of Piran then issued urban information confirming that part of these parcels was actually building land, but on the same day the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food rejected the complaint against the decision of the administrative unit Piran, which had previously approved this business. Of course, the company complained because it wanted to cancel the contract, and the Ministry of Agriculture refused to cancel the contract between the Piran Hotels and the farmer who bought the land. However, the pressure continues and the same official of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, by writing the same reference, issued a decision under the same number on 6 March 2003, repealing the decision of the administrative unit Piranin in accordance with supervisory law, thus preventing the farmer from obtaining the land legally purchased. Calvary lasted three years, and in the end, the man was near the land that he had lawfully bought and paid for, just because it had been discovered that they had already sold it to someone else, that they had hidden another plot and that they had hidden even 1,500 square feet of building land in between. Of course, then the Calvary of the ordinary citizen in the fight against the LDS windmill continues and the matter is currently somewhere in the administrative court. A report has also been submitted to the Anti-Corruption Office, which has waived the police's application, a number of records have been drawn up, all have submitted the case, it has been written to the Council of Justice, to the Council of Justice - no effect. Well, the Anti-Corruption Office, in a letter sent to the Ministry of the Interior, the General Police Administration, qualified the matter correctly. This letter says they're pointing to a thing that's obviously corrupt. To draw attention to the statement made by the seller of the land in which he marked the publication on the notice board as a formality which must be fulfilled by law. The Office recalls that formalities are one of the main features of real law and have legal consequences. It seems strange to us, says, also the interest of the seller for the sale of movables to a precisely defined buyer, with the price in these proceedings being the main component of the contract, and the buyers can only accept it. Procedures that are not transparent and are "per se" irregular and unfair and excellent basis for all kinds of corruption. This functionary of Liberal Democracy, Vice-President of Liberal Democracy, this company is owned by the former high-ranking official of Liberal Democracy, who has raised large amounts of money in the constellation of telecommunications feud, LDS, and we have talked about him extensively at the previous meeting. Earlier, the same company bought out the Piran villa in the center of the land and then wanted a complex around it, of course. In the meantime, you remember, even the agricultural land law was changing. We saw how some were interested in the change, so that the first one on the list became a neighbor rather than a farmer. There were some of these in this hall who were very interested in such a change. And so on. In short, it was a battle with the mills on the wind, not driven by the wind, but by the powerful arrogance of the Liberal Democracy. The Slovenian farmer from Slovenia Istria was a citizen here who was told that they would destroy him if he did not give in. And so far, they've been very successful. They've been very successful at this so far. The land that the buyers paid fairly is still not in his possession. All possible instruments have been blown. There are papers in writing, and they have advised him to withdraw from these matters. And in short, you can't see the light here at the end of the tunnel. I am sure that even now that a lot of people have heard that nothing will happen, because gentlemen sitting there know this case, at least some have already met him. This farmer did not first come to the opposition, expecting first protection from the authorities. He wrote to the judiciary, wrote to the courts, was at the Anti-Corruption Office, and so on. But as it is said, every decision that has been made has gone more to his detriment. And it's going to be even more absurd, because it's for the film story, they used embezzlement, hidden plots and hidden land, a building plot that was packed in this package because they wanted to give someone something. By the way, 10,000 square plots along the Slovenian coast were sold at an elite location in Strunjan for 5 million tolars, 580 tolars per square meter. And now we're sure nothing will happen. The Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy will find a thousand excuses for these procedures, including his party. If this is not enough, the Liberal Democracy will call for a few more reservists, and Rob's Mrs Kandutieva will provide even stronger censorship in the media. You may also be banned from the SDS.si website, where you can read all the documents I've been talking about. We've already had experience with this. Once the lawsuit was tried to be banned, but as long as this website is still in operation, until it is banned, you can see all this documentation about the calvary of the common man in the fight with the mill on the wind on the SDS.si website. However, we will be very pleased if we also receive a concrete response to this particular case at this meeting. Because, as he said in this letter, I have not read all of it, including the Anti-Corruption Office, it is not an isolated case. It says: In the accompanying documentation there are several such matters, all of them remind of some irregular state of land records and so on and things are particularly interesting in the most elite sites on the coast of Slovenia, where new villas of turbo-capitalists have grown, which in a few years have accumulated as much wealth as entrepreneurs and business families in normal countries around the world have accumulated in several generations, and this is wrong. For this reason, we do not expect this debate to lead to a lack of any movement, but at least in some cases. Even before Mr Bohinc spoke, after the dates he listed, we can see that since the first request for an extraordinary meeting on corruption at the SIB bank has been submitted, these law enforcement authorities have been unknowingly activated. If we look at these dates, we see that something has happened at this time. Unfortunately, at that time there were no sequels then successful in the prosecution as well, or some things might have been expected too soon. However, we will be very happy if, even in the coming weeks and months, anything happens and, above all, we will be very happy if such cases are no longer mentioned earlier. If anyone thinks from respected colleagues and colleagues from government parties that any of the things I said do not hold, go to your offices, take a look at this documentation on the website and judge for yourself. I was the judge on the basis of this same paperwork.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u180	Director Penko on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to answer only one statement by Mr Janša. And that is that Mr Janša believes that the institutions do not treat everyone equally, so that they are not all the same before the law, citing a case which, in my opinion, speaks exactly the opposite. You are quoting that it was a senior official of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, who was involved after your assessment in corrupt practices that contained signs and suspicions of unlawful conduct. We have received this matter, as you correctly quoted, in the form of an application and also a personal interview of the injured person and we have done exactly the same as in all other matters. We didn't look at who it was. You have read our expert opinion, in which we define the matter, give it additional weight and content and then withdraw it to the competent institutions that can operate within their powers. And, of course, we expect all other institutions to work in the same way. And if you think of any other matter in which it was also a senior official, and not only that, even a minister in the current government, we have done exactly the same. I can only speak for the job I run, it's still a government service, but others can tell about their jobs, but at least from our point of view we have exactly the same criteria for anyone we think should be followed by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u182	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u183	Well, I think everyone would be very happy, Mr Penko, if that were true, but that is not the case. For this minister in the current government, you are referring, of course, to the foreign minister you persecuted because of the so-called diplomatic academy, a lawsuit has been brought against the prosecution. An investigation has been lodged. Slovenian media has written a lot about it, it's been in the paper every day, and it's still mentioned today. The Attorney General, who is today the Minister of Justice, has made a public statement that this is a very serious matter. In the case of the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy, Mr Anderlic, there was no such statement, no one wrote anything; nowhere does it appear that these institutions, which treat everything equally, would act as expediently as in the case of Mr Rupl.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u184	My friend Stemberger. [[Back-up advertising.]] This is a debate that runs in accordance with the rules. The Government and the proposer, mostly in the meetings and agenda items of this Government, may be discussed at any time. And in this role, the proposaler is now a group of Members and can be discussed at any time. Please, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u185	Well, this is already glass and I would ask, given that I've been waiting nine and a half hours for these five minutes, as long as the rules of procedure allows me to add these half-minutes to my end. At today's meeting, we are discussing once again one of the ever-increasing phenomena in our society, corruption and clientism, and the inefficiency of the supervisory institutions that allow such a situation. The fact is that this is how the current government, in particular its Chairman mag. Robbery and referee Minister, Mr Bohinc, as the former Attorney General General, Mrs Cerarjev, and former Police Director, Mr Pogorjevc, have not done enough for the police and the Prosecutor's Office to decide or to detect, and in particular to prosecute, the worst corrupt crimes and fraud involving influential individuals, as a rule, always among the types of ruling parties. In the recent case of the Foreign Minister, of whom it has just been said, the Slovenian public has even had the opportunity to directly observe the incredible arrogance with which the current government understands the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law. For a member of the government allowed himself, without any shame, to teach the public that ministers should not be prosecuted and therefore to high officials the status of the untouchable. With such an understanding of equality before the law in the government itself, it should not be surprising that almost growing cases of corruption that we see in the media have only been discovered by journalists, as the perpetrators were simply untouchable to the police and the prosecution. And here we are with a key question that no one in this national assembly or in the professional public obviously can or does not want to ask. Why do Slovenian criminals not detect cases of corrupt crimes or file complaints when important individuals or politicians are found among suspects, and why do prosecutors simply hide complaints or complaints in closets in these cases? There are only two answers. Either that because they want to do someone a favor or because they're afraid. And it is the latter, the fear, the fear of those responsible for taking action against a high policy or an influential individual that is an area where action should be taken without delay. Until we provide such effective systemic protection to honest police officers and prosecutors or other public officials and even workers in the economy that, in the event of detection and reporting of irregularities and prosecution of perpetrators, their supervisors or superiors are unable to bully them, until then, the detection and prosecution of corruption cannot be successful. If, for example, a criminalist is not afraid to file an accusation against a politician when he is not afraid that someone from the top will call his boss and order him to stop the case and punish him, then such a criminalist will be happy to carry out his duty and also bring influential individuals to safety. Since there is no such protection now, of course, such cases as they are being dealt with today will not be addressed, as he risks losing his job and, as a result, at least a 10-year justification with the country. If bullying really is a regular practice in ministries, then the Prime Minister should act immediately. The ruling coalition of this area does not wish to regulate it properly and to include it in the extensive reform of the public administration, which Mr Gregor Virant has been working in the internal ministry for several years. Surprisingly, the so-called opposition does not expose this. Nor did she point out this at the last interpretation against the Interior Minister. Nor did she point out the irregularity in the foreign ministry. If he is already attacking the current government because of corruption and clienteleism, he should also point out these irregularities at the foreign ministry, and the Secretary of State, who is in charge of public administration reform at the internal ministry, has not adequately addressed this issue within the Office, which he has led for years, he has also led an administrative inspection until recently, which has not done his job. Today, a decision should be taken in the National Assembly to instruct the government to prepare, within one month or as soon as possible, an appropriate proposal for amendments to the legislation to effectively protect both corruption applicants and those who are responsible for its persecution. And if you don't mind, I'll just finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u186	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u187	Now the alarming situation in the area of corruption and clienteleism will not be rectified as long as there are one and the same faces in politics, both in the opposition and in the coalition. The current and similar accounts that we are witnessing in this national assembly between the LDS and the SDS are unfortunately just a simple farce, aimed only at obtaining voters rather than solving the problem of corruption and clientism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u188	The Minister of Lahovnik and Bohinc asked for the floor. Please, Minister Lakhovnik, Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler kind of challenged me. I don't think it makes sense that in these late night hours, I'm knocking on my chest too, that I'm a Styrian. After all, everyone's proud of where they come from. Whether they are from Dolenjska or Gorenjska or Koroška. It is only now up to me to say that I don't care about regional development or something like that, it wouldn't be the best place. Because I'm not from the capital, and I've always advocated polycentric development. What's interesting is when you highlighted the issue of balanced regional development. We have recently also dealt with state aid in the government, as you know. It was a rescue of four companies. One was from Notranjska, one from Dolenjska, one from the Sava region, one I think, yes, from the White Land. As you know, companies like Svea, companies like Javor Pivka, Iskra capacitors and the like. It is clear to all of us that this is a matter of developing problematic regions, that there are often no alternatives to hiring people in these areas. And they're just trying to identify healthy cores with appropriate development programs, and they're also trying to support them. In the case of Iscre capacitors, you know it's about 1,000 employees there, it's an extremely developmental problem region. The question is, what's the alternative? And clearly in such cases, as I mentioned earlier, attempts to identify and support an appropriate programme, if any. When we are also talking about foreign direct investment, the fact that one of the criteria is also regional development. Those investing in less developed regions also have a greater opportunity to obtain appropriate State aid. So, as far as this is concerned, it would be very unfair for me not to say, in essence, that it is unfair to say that some balanced regional development is not one of the criteria, but that it is also given due attention. We know, we all agree, we know about the problem of some regions where agriculture is largely present, the food processing industry. That's right. A large proportion of the aid was directed, and it is also, to agriculture. Certain regions have problems, but these problems need to be tackled. They can't be saved overnight. That's a fact, too. As far as it is concerned, Mr Janša has highlighted why I have raised the question of denationalisation. It's not like I'd pull one topic out of the air on my own. It was one of the Members who opened the question of privatisation and spoke of fair privatisation and from this that it was disproportionate, that it should be the characteristic of Slovenia, that privatisation caused dispersion and so on. At first, I argued that I did not think that this was such that our privatisation model was one of the better compared to some other transition countries. Secondly, I have pointed out that if we are talking about decomposition, then there may be another law, such as denationalisation, which, in comparison with some other countries, was the most radical and we have returned in nature also things that could also be returned in dispute, and that even when we are talking about para-national funds, it is right that we know that the Slovenian compensation society did not just come into being, but it is intended to exactly cover the so-called denationalisation obligations or denationalisation holes. So, I mentioned it, and I mean, history will just show, I'm sure that a large part of decomposition goes to the expense of too radical law. As for this study from the IMD, I simply pointed out, as you know in essence, the opinion of the contractor of this study, which he did himself, says, the Institute for Economic Research, which themselves very much related the importance and put into question this study, I also mentioned a statement by a very successful Slovenian manager and I also mentioned some other studies that speak slightly differently about Slovenia's performance. There are different studies, different methods, different approaches and the point of my implementation was that there is a need for a balanced review of the different data, that it is not right to rely on just one study, which, in the opinion of the authors of this study, is once again a matter of an economic research institute which has also conducted this study for Slovenia, they think this study is itself controversial. That's what this was all about, and that's what I wanted to point out. Once again, it was not possible to denationalise to draw something out of the air now, I was just comparing it with the privatisation model that it was, but I think that Mr Bayuk has highlighted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u190	Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Janša asked me some questions, and I will try to answer them. One of the questions concerns registration plates or plates on license plates. Mr Janša expressed doubts as to whether the markings on these tables were correct or whether they would still be valid at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Let me say that we have examined this issue in very detail and that there is no doubt in this regard. Slovenia is bound by the Vienna Transport Convention, which provides that for traffic markings, the right markings on vehicles, on roads and on transport documents are applied the SLO code, which is the Slovenian international obligation as deposited in the United Nations, and so will remain until we are able to amend this Convention, which will be very difficult. Currently, initiatives in this regard do not exist to amend the Vienna Convention. What Mr Janš probably had in mind is the ISO standard that set the SVN or SI abbreviations for Slovenia in all other areas. This is true and this is also applicable in all others except in the transport sector. It is true, however, that we cannot apply this standard in the transport field because, unfortunately, standards are not legally stronger than conventions that bind Slovenia as a participant in international relations. So much for that question. In short, there is no concern that in the following year, as has been said, this mark in the field of transport would no longer apply. Slovenia has already started registering with May 1st, as you may have noticed. The traffic plates are slightly altered, already marked, i.e. European signs. This will remain until the road safety law is in force, which brings some news in this regard. However, in no case will the owners of the traffic plates which they have acquired in force be obliged to replace the plates until their validity expires, as in the practice of other European countries. So much in the explanation in this regard, although there is no clear link between this debate and today's debate, or at least it has not been indicated. Mr Janša asked a few more questions about police procedures and how much of the impact was in the area of compensation, or how many of the people in these proceedings that we are dealing with today have been harmed when these people received from me [[?]] Satisfaction in any form whatsoever. Let me say that the Ministry of the Interior, or the police, is responsible for police procedures, for the pre-trial procedure, for the investigation procedure, and in this regard I have informed this National Assembly of the number of criminal complaints and other proceedings initiated in the cases indicated. However, the Ministry of the Interior does not have and will never have an overview of how compensation procedures are taking place, which are entirely civil-law in nature, which are a civil matter of every individual and there is no control, and it is also an area of civil society, these are individual claims that are in the sphere of people who are being challenged and we do not want the Ministry of Internal Affairs to have control over this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Rupar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Surely and I am sure that both you, Members of Parliament and Members of the ruling coalition, are still deeply and deeply aware of the pressing problem of corruption in this country and, of course, I am also convinced that you know very well how to enforce this corruption, which I, and there, also touches you personally, in very fine and good ways to suppress in anonymity, in ignorance, in mocking others. And you know the methods of how this great mountain hides to this extent, that from the water the frozen mountain sees only with small peaks, which you treat. Of course, I have in mind the inequality before the law, the total inequality in this country, which is evident not only in law enforcement agencies, in prosecutors, in judges, in politicians, is also evident in the media. And, of course, today we have heard several times that these media are not righteous, are not equal to everyone, and that they write about one another differently, depending on how much someone pays them or how much someone pays them nothing because they cannot. I have in mind the cases that I will teach, at least two, maybe three, if time permits me, and allow me to introduce them in a peaceful and dignified manner. I also have my destiny in mind, I'm sure. And I'm going to put this fate in comparison to maybe the fate of someone who's here, or more of them who are here. In fact, inventing a problem and accusing someone and pummeling someone is a very small problem, it's practically no problem at all. It is necessary to have documents, arguments, if credible, and to take them forward. Well, judging is not a problem. It's a big problem to prove this conviction. For this we have someone in this country first who suspects someone, then we have law enforcement institutions or criminals here, we have different offices, both to prevent corruption and money laundering, then we have criminals, prosecutors who run it, and so on and so on. But in this country of inequality, in the country of injustice, it happens that these bodies, even if they are not justified or otherwise, are persecuted and harassed, and for years and years they are tormented only because they are not one of the ruling parties. I'm a simple case, as I've already said. Although I really roll through the courts, even though the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy and the United List are embroidering and waving, it is very difficult to predict an epilogue, and it is simply not at all. But on the other hand, when asked why, where are the bases, where are the bases, they talk about anonymous letters flying from these kinds of letters to prosecutors, to criminals and these anonymous ones are the basis for prosecution. Why do I feel unequal? Because I know there's a lot of anonymities going on around this country. For example, I read this recently about Jelk Kacin, the holder of your European Parliament list, about a man whom I would expect to be super honest, but anonymous, I threw away, had an argument, but I was waiting for someone to appear anywhere about Jelk Kacin, to have, I don't know, participated in the sale of land with Mohori Bogotai, the mayor and so on. What's going on at the Giro di Italia race, wherever you are. So, nothing at all, it wasn't. On the other hand, read one of the central Slovenian newspapers. I have in mind the journal, which, from December 12th last year, published 20 articles, of which five are on the front pages, on the alleged anonymous allegations of Rupar, and so on and on and on and on and on and on. Why is it that all of us who have been brought to suspicion are not treated in the same way? I don't know, Mr. Kacin, you might be able to tell yourself whether any of the criminals involved in the election campaign in 2000 were already with you, to look at the credibility. Where it could be traced and where it could feel anything happening about suspicion. I haven't seen it yet. I am referring to the start of this corruption exercise of mine. I know that you know and know that you know about cases of corruption, and you know that everything that is, so basically, in most of what has been said here today is the foundation and is the truth. And anyway, it can also be legal places, it can also be legally covered, as we have heard before, however, but we are asking a simple question. An ice mountain that is and those that are below the level of this water, you need the tops of this icy mountain. I've been thinking for a long time about why some of the Krajina mayor's cases came up, say, what he was doing in everything that was nice was no longer in LDS, who some of them are, and why some of them are introducing him, and why some of them are now on the wallpaper. I've come to this because it's simply because it's a water tip that you're looking at and you need to be alerted to hide what's under the surface. And that's why this LDS and this United List need an example of "birds" like Rupar, so that not only would he be in one stupid newspaper 20 times, you'll find a small case compared to the corruption we've heard today, say, in New Town, and you're going to some game about this corruption. The essence of all and the essence of great corruption, while billions of corruption remains precisely because of this, and you have a very good alibi in the government, "we are chasing corruption". Yeah, you're chasing her. When it comes to appearances like myself, when it comes to suspicions of 500 thousand dollars, as much as someone say, I don't know, in Ultra, I don't know, in a couple of hours, in six hours, we could say, spend, gain, make a deal or whatever. Of course, even in this inequality before the law and in this country, I wonder why in the "flashes" or in, I don't know if you understand the term "flash," but I will say in slogans or in some statements you refer to the Ombudsman of Human Rights and the rights that a person has in this country, or in a newspaper with a full name and surname, including a wife, including a daughter, with a still unborn grandson or whatever, with those who say, but have nothing but initials, I guess the police can't use it anymore. Why is that? How to look equal in this country if information from the police about someone who isn't yours comes to the newspapers a few days before any information he's given to the police. How is that possible? How is that possible? Look at the papers, look at the case, and you'll see what they haven't written about. Is the law the same here? I'm sorry, he's not the same for everyone. Of course, it's back to corruption. It can be political corruption, it can be, I don't know, so anyway, in our country this is happening, and Slovenia is far from equal to everyone in this respect. Of course, if there's not enough darkness, I can argue, and I can prove you're just making it up. Just make up an appearance. I don't know, I've been here a couple of times to some big insults by Lavrinc, and he's been making a one-time announcement about some bums. So here I have a series of some MPs who once yelled, some fence, some jail, or I don't know what. I don't know what you've been doing, and then a few days later in the paper, I read the meaning of it. Conviction and direct accusation. And look at the media, twice writing, suspected corruption, third writing, receiving, and accepting money. This is what we are going to do in this country, and this is, excuse me, also corruption, very serious corruption. I see the solution myself. Actually, I don't see it, because, as the police have already been told today, how many criminals are employed, it's hard to expect any results, although vice versa with someone suspected of abuse for 500 thousand tolars, two criminals can be stabbed at the same time. [[...]] Two at a time. And a bunch of state prosecutors. And proving something wrong, or whatever the truth is, it's a long time. And it could take seven or more years. And it can be quite dramatic. So I am simply personally convinced that such meetings are absolutely necessary. It's very necessary. That for once, someone could point out the injustice that's happening to a lot of people. To warn of corruption that is insane. And I'm sure it's precisely because of the opposition of such a fair that you're afraid to reveal this problem. I'll tell you again why. Because you know too well, and you are very well aware of how extensive it is and how big it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Minister Dr. Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this whole meeting today proves that it is probably very important how we discuss certain issues. It is particularly important that we probably discuss corruption issues in each country. Because it is no different than agreeing with what Mr Penko said an hour ago when he pointed out that there is no normal democracy in which it would not seem to be serious to deal with these issues. But when we deal with corruption issues, then we need to be very careful when we deal with them the way we do here tonight. If we are talking about corruption in Parliament, then perhaps there is a need to be a particular argument. If not, then we quickly go into many words and thus hide those points where dealing with corruption is likely to be more necessary. And he'd have a place here in Parliament. When someone points out that the document submitted as a chronic proof that corruption exists in that country is manifestly inaccurate when public notice is given, they are also recorded when the document appears again in Parliament, then one wonders why it is not removed at least those points for which it is obvious that they include flat-rate accusations of lies. If this does not go away, then it throws a bad light on all the other points that are written in such a document, because it is simply no longer possible to distinguish where it is necessary to see whether it really is an irregularity and where the purpose is completely different. Let me point out what we have already pointed out in the previous session and is a typical example of this kind of bombastic writing that can't possibly have any other purpose than desauvling people, mutilating people and throwing bad lights on people who don't deserve it. Page 12 states: "It is entirely illogical to claim that Ultra, d.o.o., is a successful high-tech company competing on the world market for the most pervasive companies in its business and thus achieves above average business results if we know that this same company has obtained grants from the Ministry of Education. In the world, successful companies usually help schools with their donations. In Slovenia, LDS ministers allocated money from the school budget to a private company owned by their customers' members and sympathizers. Logic says that either Ultra is not as successful as it appears to be, or regardless of the needs of the money, it steals from even schoolchildren and redistributes itself to those who are already digging into it." This is a statement that is written in the text and has a lot of inaccuracies and something false to itself. The inaccuracies are that in the world successful companies do not compete or acquire funds in different competitions, where they are applied research and development projects by which the state tries to support an industry that develops products in certain areas that try to expand its own production. Well, the most famous companies, such as Nokia in Finland, receive such assistance. We have warned about this the previous time, and one would expect this part of the text to be withdrawn because it is obviously unnecessary. Instead of withdrawing this text, it speaks of children being stolen here. The theft of children is called the fact that FERI, a university in Maribor, with very specific institutions, doctors of science, together with Ultra, was successful at the tenders. At the head of the call committees, neither ministers nor officials, none of the ministers mentioned here, have changed in any of the decisions related to these processes, but have only signed the decisions of the circles of scientists headed by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, and have thus confirmed these projects. So, if what you're talking about is true, then it's up to these people to steal it. I don't know if you're hoping to tell them that in their face. Because if it's true, then they should be reported, of course, together with the ministers. But if it's not true, it should be withdrawn. But I'm giving this as an example of obvious abuse and attempted manipulation of facts. I, my colleague Rupar, deeply agree that it is very wrong that before a person has been convicted, we are already talking about him as if we know he is so and so and he did this and that. And you won't believe it, I think it's a long way from making sense in this society to talk about you as well. But we have to ask ourselves how we produce this condition. It's not just about you. That's what you say in this paper. For example, about Gregor Golobic. That's how newspapers talk about people who haven't been proven anything. Worse. It is very likely that these insinuations are very similar to those mentioned earlier. I believe until proven otherwise that it is also in your case for something like this. But if we want to find out what this is about, then the authorities in this country that are competent to investigate will, of course, have to answer these questions. My friend Janš likes to remember who was not convicted and who is not persecuted. In doing so, he does not mind being inaccurate in citing. They are ministers, former and present in this Chamber, who have also been sued in private lawsuits in Slovenia, for example, for hundreds of millions of tolars. Courts in relation to them shall carry out their business, as they did with the Minister himself. Of course, he forgot about those who were not on the right side of his, but he remembered his own. I think they are, that's a fellow schoolboy. I was alone. You're also talking about a minister who was a minister. This moment, as far as I know, does not sit in the Slovenian government. I'm talking about the justice system doing its job. He did it on the line to me, too. Of course, we do not have this habit of making this widely public because we believe that this is something that falls within the normal procedure in this country. And if you were to use his language, then you should have said, but it's strange that the minister mentioned earlier wasn't already accused, convicted. Because if, what's taking so long? Because as soon as we record for someone that he did something wrong, that's proof that he did something wrong. It can't be like that. We are not able to resolve this between ourselves, like the government and the parliamentarians, and I fear that, even as parliamentarians, we do not. This will have to be left to others. Nothing richer than leaving this hall after this long day, because all day long, I think it'll pass before we do this job. But if we left, we could probably leave with one knowledge. In fact, we had more than enough time to say what we could say in this way. And that it would be wise to take your own. If we don't want him to be one now and the other guilty. Mr Janša is spoken of in various ways throughout Slovenia. Once, $10 million went missing at the arms store, and then there's 100. What's the point of this? As far as I'm concerned, nothing until proven. Because if it's different, then the question is what kind of country we are. But this is true for all of us, and it would be wise to use the word theft more rarely. It may sound good, but when you can’t prove it when you haven’t proved it where you have to prove it, it would be much smarter to be less easy in such claims. I know it hurts when this thesis hits someone, but it doesn't make any sense when it throws itself into another.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I had previously overlooked the implementation of Mr Rupar's request for a replica of Mr Kacin. After that, Mrs Justice Minister and Mr Janez Janša spoke. Mr. Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I appreciate the efforts and efforts of my colleague Rupar, who comes from the same region as himself, and I am particularly grateful to him that he has mentioned me so many times in his concern for the fight against corruption. But when I was preparing for this session and I was looking at the materials, the Rupar case wasn't listed anywhere. What colleague Pavel Rupar has now explained is not to be understood as an attempt to expand the agenda, because I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party has no intention of extending this debate to its individual Members, but at least to Paul Rupar himself, who is innocent as any Member, until the matter has been brought to an end by judgment. I may be a superficial reader of the paper, but only once before, I've read that someone with initials P. R. wrote in the Scriptures, but he signed himself in full, that was Paul Rupar. Otherwise, the initials were P. R. often cited, which allows me to think that maybe it's the same person. But it's not proven. In short, I know that in the local community of Tržič, there are several people with such initials and that the amounts that would lead to the suspicion of various crimes are very different. I just remember one of those P contributions. R. speaking of $4 million, not 500,000. But you can also read it in our journals, and it's all available in the archives, and it's worth looking at. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if we have already decided to give this night all day long a catharsis of the National Assembly on the subject of corruption, to take it to some place, I will say, an organised way not to then choose on the left and right individual additional examples and cases and then spread the matter indefinitely. In my opinion, this makes no sense, because if this continues, we will come up with a call: All suspected suspects of the National Assembly, connect, be solidarity with each other! But these are calls that remind us of some other centuries and some other systems. Here, excuse me, there is strict individualism, here there is no solidarity, here there is no collective responsibility and convictions become legally binding on the force of different dates because they relate to very specific persons. That is why it seems to me that it would be appropriate to go back to the agenda and leave the individual Members alone, either that no one has mentioned them at all, and that is bullshit because they have not been mentioned, or that they have been mentioned as unnecessary. In short, that's not the point of the agenda. Madam Vice-President, I am pleased that you have finally noticed my hand and I would ask that in the future, if there are further attempts to expand the agenda, you will also intervene with the procedural and debater or you will try to return the debater to the agenda we are currently discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar used one of the subtones, this is inequality in terms of criminal treatment of an alleged case and it is very difficult to assess that it is a matter of extending the agenda. He felt that he needed to back this up with personal experience. This cannot be prevented by a Member. I would like to take the floor with the Minister of Justice. Mrs. Cerar please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In my discussion, I would not want to be personal, but a word about what inequality is before marriage. In the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of legality applies, which strictly obliges all law enforcement authorities to apply the law even when another country applies a discretionary right and says, "We will not prosecute such things" or because the courts are overloaded and it is not possible to bring things to judgment at a reasonable time or for other reasons because they may not be so important. I would like to remind Members that, as the Attorney-General of State, I was the head of the institution, who dealt without distinction with all the cases that were, one, two, three, four, five. I think you've seen this, yes, in your reports, and I'd probably tie this page three times more today if Minister Ruple hadn't put me on trial. That's what I'm sure and we'd say that we're making a difference and that because he's a minister, we haven't treated him equally. I'm proud that the D.A. has decided as it is that the court has decided and we have a clear conscience. We used the law the way we had to. And in a number of other cases, I think it makes no sense here, when we talk about purely other social phenomena, now to cite evidence for this. I would like to tell you that you also have a lot of incorrect ideas, for example, about the Red Cross issue you are introducing during corruption. The claim was made here that the Court of Auditors did not even look at the case that it had disappeared, that the right people were not being treated. But the truth is like this. There was an anonymous complaint about the Red Cross, which was based on evidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u200	Dr. Bayuk, you'll have your word if you have the chance. Now Mrs. Secretary and only her. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u201	The first to know about this was the Court of Auditors. We met at the first meeting of the three ministers responsible for the Red Cross. This is a humanitarian organisation that is partly financed from the budget and that part falls under the control of the Court of Auditors, but the part where donations are made and the other part is not. In fact, there has been an action to detect over three competent ministries, the police and the Court of Auditors. And look, I said today that we have four different procedures and six people just for crimes. Other things, however, went on in a way that is only appropriate in every society in that civil way. And now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, do you not think that the Red Cross is a humanitarian organisation that we should all return to our reputation? We should make an effort to do that, and I can tell you that I personally am. I received a call from new officials, and we discussed ways in which people could regain their confidence in this organization, which was wrongly lost because of the irregularity of a couple of people. It was just a few people who had sinned against the rule of law, and it was a whole dirty organization. Even all those selfless activists who worked with one faith to help people. I think it's important to see this in the right light once in a while. The company and, in particular, the bodies of repression have proven to be here, maximum. If you think you could do any more, go look somewhere else. And that's no way to talk about criminal cases. In Switzerland, this company, that company. Go see what this company is. This could be a civil procedure, it could be a bankruptcy procedure, it could also be a criminal procedure. But such statements do not mean in a legal language shop and there is no evidence of that. It's just the introduction of some kind of disorder, some strange mistrust among people, to inspire the impression that our state authorities, our judicial authorities don't work or act by law. You don't have that evidence that they don't work under the law. The D.A.'s office is a court of law. The court's audit is a court of law. It's a legal order. But if you think that control of justice is a national council, then you're in big trouble. We don't have that kind of arrangement. Maybe we'll have it sometime. NGOs, an extremely good thing that every country supports. What a thought I have heard today that a donation by the government in a non-governmental organisation would arouse dependence and attachment to certain controls or government orders. There's no such thing in the world, and you don't have to be afraid. NGOs are very happy to receive support from the country. And believe me, that is why they have also come to realize those goals that they have set for themselves. These are unselfish people who work largely for free and who, if they are of course honest, are used for the purpose for which the organization is established. I would not like to have the impression that there may be some truth in the audience and in some Members. As regards payments from various criminal proceedings, it is also possible, of course, to assess claims for damages or claims for property. However, I assure you that this is an adhesion procedure, which is rarely included in criminal proceedings because it is too lengthy. It's a matter of civil courts. However, when we have a failure of the company when we have a failure of the savings office, banks, bankruptcy comes and the order of payments is such that workers get paid first. That's how it works, because it can't be. And even in these cases in Maribor, which I have mentioned today, that bankruptcy managers have gone wrong with money, in most cases after providing the court president with the relief of workers. Of course, it's always like this, if the company goes down, 100% of the pay is gone, because otherwise the company wouldn't go down. But these are the rules all over Europe. We're no exception here. And in the market economy that we have chosen ourselves, we ourselves have agreed that we have a market economy, but there is also the collapse of economic operators for a variety of reasons, and we must take this and act responsibly and honestly in this business traffic, so that it is as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u202	Before I give my word to the motioner, as well as Minister Bohinc asked, Comrade Anderlich, did you ask for a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u203	If I hadn't heard that today or actually read it, I'd have heard it in part, and I'd have thought that something was true of what was said. First of all, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues for taking some time to explain the ecclesiastical, Flagrant or whatever you want, the abuse of legal and legitimate ways. A while ago, so years ago, a multi-ownership house was purchased, and in time, it was found that this house had no access, no service path. Only the plot on which the house was located was 100 years old, not accessible otherwise than by 80 degrees up the stairs. A hundred yards. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] With a helicopter, yeah. [[...]] You can joke, but it's obviously a deception and abuse of some of the instruments that are actually available to the opposition -- so, to bring something that can be sold in public as something that someone wanted to cheat, steal, or whatever. And when we talked about it, that was years ago, long before the agricultural land law was passed, there was no legal void. It's my first time here seeing documents, and I'm glad I saw them, because I didn't know them before, now from the Internet. I'm sure you don't. In fact, if there was an interest in the earth, we would probably be able to buy land with the house together. But we had no intention of buying the land, but later, when it was found that we needed to get to the house, we also had to buy the land. We thought it was a happy circumstance that he still owned the land just as he owned the house. And we said, unless it's different that we get the service that's written after some of the old earth's sparkles, but it's possessed by different people, so we had to do something, and we said, we're just going to buy it to get to that. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, of course, because you need to know what a structured land is, because after an 80-degree slope you can't go straight up, but you have to go around. And, of course, here it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u204	Dude, three minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u205	Okay, I'm gonna ask you to sign up for the debate. And that was what we had to do. And what happened after years of prosecution? These things have been going on in the courts for three, four years and proof that the rule of law is working - otherwise I think it is bad - that the priority right given to it by service is not possible, expungable or whatever to get to the house. And if we haven't been able to buy or get to official justice yet, then probably these mills are grinding slowly. I'll explain this further. However, I will only say that in this year, when I went to check why these things did not happen so far, I found that there was a mistake in the ownership process, and I hope that the Agricultural Land Fund will initiate an action against the owner who, when all the companies had to dispose of the agricultural land in the ownership process, did not exclude it from the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, but sold it himself. A whole series of complications, things, but the thing is at the beginning and the service path to the facility is not, which was honestly purchased. You have all the contracts here. But I'll apply later for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u206	The text is given by the proposer, followed by Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u207	The speaker cheered me up for the first time, and for the first time I hear that someone has seen a document signed by him himself, some have been signed by Mr Anderlich for the first time, and now he sees it for the first time. I really don't know how that's possible. It is also clear why the case was not reported to the Agricultural Land Fund. Because there were building plots that were hidden. But I will answer that after Mr Anderlich has been given more time in the debate and will explain everything. I'd like to answer, and I'll also bring the document where it's signed. It's probably not enough Internet skills to get it all down. As for the performances of ministers or representatives of the government, some very arrogant ones, I must say, when I listened to Mr Gabra, a man becomes afraid, simple, from this performance it seems as if those in power should not be told that they are completely innocent. It's like whoever's hoping to say anything is the worst thing in this country. Indeed, such arrogance is difficult for you to meet, and it is supported by the allegations of how Finnish Nokia is financed by the school ministry. Come on, where did you make that up? This multi-national is funded by a number of educational institutions in Finland, sponsored by them, etc., I doubt that ministers, who are just from the same party as people in Nokia, give education there millions, as you give Ultra. Mr Minister for Economy spoke again about denationalisation, obviously we have received another expert besides Mr Potrč and Krivica for this area, we thought they had run out. He also made one obvious point, which is not true, of how privatisation, which was carried out in Slovenia, was very mild and did not lead to decomposition. Dear Minister, there has been a very large social dissipation in Slovenia in recent years. I know or believe you didn't feel it. Your own government data show that in recent years there have been 10,000 more recipients of social assistance every year, each year, in the last two years, the number of recipients of social assistance, as the only income, has increased by 20,000, every year by 10,000. Today, 59,000 people and a few people in Slovenia receive social assistance from 40 and a few thousand SITs, this is a concrete information which denies the claim that there has been no decomposition. What a great dispersion! Go to Tezna in Tam's blocks and see if those who lost their jobs in the darkness actually got everything from the bankruptcy mass, as your ministerial colleague earlier said. If you go there, it doesn't look like it, I have to say, but it looks like there's a lot of social dispersion. Mr. Minister of Education quoted half a percent of the material and said, if what I am about to read is not true, then nothing else holds. If that's how you go to school, Mr. Minister of Education, it's no wonder that most of the students and most of the teachers aren't happy with it. It's not weird. So if one thing isn't true, if one grade is bad, then the rest are bad. Maybe there's been a mistake. Doesn't mean he doesn't hold any of the others. And you know it. This claim, as was the case with the money under the Ministry of Education, for any purpose, including money for a private enterprise, either through invitations, commissions or so forth. We know how these things work. She stayed inside because you didn't reject that fact the last time. You've been making excuses like you did today. It is always possible to speak to the president of the Academy of Science and Art and to academics who sit in some kind of body. However, it is up to the person who prepares it. These are the officials at your ministry. The fact that there is a Minister of Liberal Democracy, a current or former, in court over a civil suit, because someone is suing him, is not the same as being pursued by a state institution. You said they were ministers who were in these procedures. And I would like to know which Minister of Liberal Democracy, current or former, is in a court of law where he is being prosecuted by the State's Attorney's Office. Name and surname, please. That someone was suing Mr. Skull because he looked at him badly or because he did something else to him, that's another thing. A private lawsuit and a formal prosecution is something completely different. Short-circuit transfer. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] And who's suing him? [[...]] The State Prosecutor's Office [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u208	Do not embalm in the bench. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u209	An individual is suing him or a natural or legal person. [[...]] Don't press charges against him. He's not being prosecuted by the D.A.'s office. And that's the essential difference. This is a significant difference in costs, in procedure, in seriousness and so on. And we all know that. And not fooling people by evening it out. Tell me, which minister, current or formerly from the Liberal Democracy, your neighbor there, the current Justice Minister, when she was still the Attorney General's Attorney General, was persecuted. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u210	Do Not Polomatize [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u211	The only answer that was suggested here by Liberal Democracy, which is possible, is that everyone in Liberal Democracy is fair. There's no need to persecute anyone, no one's ever been arrested. They've been in power for 12 years, and that's why it's getting even more fair and better, and God forbid they stay 12 years. It'll be twice as fair and better. It's the only logical explanation for such performances. Mr. Gaber calls here all the time, prove it. Before that, we were accused of turning the National Assembly into a judicial institution, and now the Minister, who previously accused us of doing so, calls us to do as if we were in court. I don't know. We are talking here about, as we wrote in the title of the call for an extraordinary meeting, issues, corruption and clientism in conjunction with government party officials and so on, public companies. Because we want to give general light to the problem, and we believe that the case has been proven at least in these general statements on its own and you have not rejected it so far. The key claims mentioned at the outset were not rejected in one point. Tell me in which of these cases we've received a judicial epilogue. Do not deceive, as the Minister of Justice did when she said that we are here to report that in the case of the Red Cross, the Court of Auditors did nothing. That's not true. We didn't even mention him. Look what it says in the paper. The Red Cross, the Red Cross affair, were directly involved by members of the authorities. The Secretary-General of the Red Cross was even the candidate of the United Nations in the state elections. The money of the Red Cross was borrowed without criteria according to personal and political ties. Unreasonably high wages and rewards were paid. The affair greatly damaged the reputation of humanitarian organisations in Slovenia. It took months for staff exchanges to take place in the organization. No one has ever been arrested or detained. The investigation procedure was initiated with a great deal of delay. There's still no sign of the epileptic court. Tell me which of these sentences is not true. Nowhere have we mentioned the Court of Auditors - the distinguished Mrs Cerarjev - not the cases you mentioned earlier. You just made that up. And if that's what you've been doing before at the Attorney General's office, then it's no wonder that this is the case. It's not weird. And it's no wonder you were so excited when you came from China. If the Chinese judicial system for example - with great enthusiasm you spoke about it - it is no wonder that corruption is as much in Slovenia as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u212	He asked his colleague Anderlich for a replica, but three minutes is a long replica, maybe four.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u213	Look, there's only three things I'm gonna do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u214	I won't count your time. There is no replica between the views of the parliamentary groups. I've explained this before. Please, my friend Anderlich has the floor. Please. My friend Anderlič has the floor for the replica because he was mentioned in the proposaler's performance. There's no discussion about that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u215	On behalf of the applicants, the Lord mentioned and cited incorrect facts, so be correct. Once again, I explain very clearly and definitively for today. When it was necessary to arrange the service journey, we turned to the same owners to make two valuations in this regard so that, when it was obvious in this published invitation to tender that another candidate had applied, I now saw this document, Mr Janša, I did not know it earlier that it was offered to him that he could get inappropriately better land in the same other complex which was not the subject of what he wanted to arrange the service path. Among the plots you mentioned were barren soil, path, and so forth. And part of the agricultural land, of course. And that's what was interesting. Far from this happening at the time of the adoption of the agricultural land law, as we adopted the agricultural land law on 8.4.2003 at an extraordinary meeting. This matter has been the subject of much debate and discussion before. Is it really possible that no one legally and legitimately in this country, which is in this party or in any service near or in authority, should compete anywhere for the purchase of any property, land or anything else? I say that things are all legal, legitimate and fair and that the procedures that will come to an end will once again guarantee the right of this farmer who wants to do so, I assure you, because I know very well that more than half of this land is infertile, 80 degrees high and you will be able to see for yourself. But I can't believe you don't know this, that you've looked at it, taken pictures, and everything that's typical of that end. Finally, there is also a first-signed request for a referendum from the immediate proximity there. They're so clear, but it's all in court. Nothing was done, and the only thing was, essentially later, the purchase that was available was returned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Three ministers are Peace in the Chamber. [[...]] I'll give my word to my colleague Janša as a candidate. Before that, however, three representatives of the government, namely ministers Bohinc, Gaber and Lachovnik, wanted to speak after your performance. Let's go in one order.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My debate, which will be very brief, does not refer to this debate now, but to the previous, fellow Stemberger and colleague Rupar. I want to very clearly oppose allegations or reflections in this direction that the Slovenian police are working on political criteria, otherwise addressing political officials in police procedures as well as other people. From the point of view of police procedures, political officials are no more than people or something that the police would treat differently from other people. And that's right. Indeed, in this national assembly, there are many issues in this regard that are quite surprising, almost inconceivable. Questions are raised whether to treat Members differently in the event of a traffic offence, or otherwise to deal with burglaries in parliamentary homes, or to treat the mayors differently. In this regard, the police have a very clear direction, namely the Slovenian Constitution and its principle of equal treatment before the law. This principle is implemented in legislation on criminal procedure, police legislation and all other legislation. The police, therefore, not only do not work, but also do not have any legal basis for acting on political criteria favoured or any other treatment of political officials, whether it be Members, Ministers or Mayors. In this regard, all submersibles are baseless and it would be useful if those who claim to do so served to comply with the data, with supporting documentation, in order to exercise control over this matter and to determine whether there are indeed any infringements in this regard. The police do not allow themselves to be commanded by politicians, nor do they allow themselves to act in spite of their professional ethics and policies. In short, it is not some fear that my colleague Štemberger spoke of, as one of his possible options or anything else. This is a matter of professionalism, conduct in accordance with the law and no favoured or discriminatory treatment of political officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u218	Minister Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Janša, speaking with a smile about the cynicism of others tells of course everything about your feelings and your conduct. I believe you can even believe what you're saying yourself, but it doesn't help that what you're saying usually stands somewhere between insinuation, fiction and lies. For you, of course, it is very simple, you claim that the expert system that decides in this country which projects are applied, by which the state promotes industrial development and we have too little in this country, who decides who gets the project and who doesn't get it. For you, all of this happens in relationships. It may be your logic, but we don't have one on the Secretary's side, and I hope it never will. In this particular case, or in these specific cases, Ultra was selected in the tender, she was chosen in the work when I was not the Minister, in the work when I was in the two projects, and in the two projects her contribution was almost seven million, net receipts of 3 million 250 thousand, net earnings of Ferry, for example, 8 million 700 thousand dollars. There are research teams behind these projects. I hope you do not explain to Slovenia that this is a set of corrupt people who take advantage of public money. And when you talk about quick judgements, I warn you that your paper says it's a reckless theft of school money. And public money, Mr Janša, although you probably don't mind it, we have a large number of large private companies competing with other companies in Europe and the world in different countries, including Finland. A similar agency like ours, which deals with the sharing of this money, does so to Finland. That you don't know that, there's no proof that it's not happening. So much for who's cynical. Those who don't know the facts may think they're not cynical. That doesn't mean they're not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u220	Minister Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u221	Thank you very much. It's about income inequality. If we are talking about different research, then it is also right to mention the Umarje, which has clearly shown that income inequality in Slovenia, when compared with income, is lower than in the EU. It's a fact that's empirically evident. As far as poverty is concerned. The level of poverty risk in Slovenia is lower than in the EU. And that's empirically evident. As far as the differences we've talked about are concerned, if we consider the property, it is true. Here I agree with you that the differences are greater. These differences also stem from privatisation, I agree with you, and also from the process of denationalisation, where, I hope, you also agree with me. It's just a matter of studies that will show what these differences are. Speaking generally of living standards, I think it is unfair to talk about greater poverty in Slovenia compared to other countries. If you want, we can take other indicators showing the standard of living in Slovenia. It is a very good indicator, that will be said by all developmental economists, such as the mortality of babies up to the age of 1 in Slovenia, which is lower than in the EU, than in some other countries, such as Austria. So we have a well-developed healthcare system, health care. This is a very important indicator. I know you think it's funny, it's just funny. If we are talking about, say, another indicator, say, the rate of enrolment of the population in higher schools and universities in Slovenia, this indicator is once again over 50%. The latest information I have is 52%, which again shows that public education is also available to a large part of the population. I think it is difficult in Slovenia today to say that this is not the case. In short, if we take these indicators into account, or if you want another one, the share of ownership dwellings in Slovenia, where we are at the very top of the European Union. These facts need to be discussed as well. And today, to say that Slovenia is not a social state, that is to say, too much. And even when you mentioned that research, I agree with one conclusion that living work is too much of a burden on us with taxes and contributions. Social transfers. But why? Because we have a relatively wide network of social transfers again, we can talk about the social state. Slovenia is also at the summit of the European Union under this criterion. Taxes and contributions are also appropriate. And when the government came to terms with tax reform, you know that the alternative to decommissioning was a higher burden on assets. Which you will no doubt support again. But the very idea that Slovenia is not a social state here is that we face more poverty than elsewhere in the European Union, and this is empirically verifiable, I hope to say, the inaccurate fact that I do not use any worse expression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u222	Now he's got the word "proposer," followed by Director Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u223	Dear Mr. Minister of Education. Of course, things don't happen in relationships. We didn't say that anywhere. It is only there that everything happens according to relationships where someone for 10 years recruits people for key functions in public companies and enterprises owned by the majority of the state and then becomes an entrepreneur and trades with these companies. And there's a lot going on in relationships. And now we're talking about cases like this. And such cases are not mentioned in your anti-corruption law, because it does not speak of these things. There is no such competitive clause. We proposed a conclusion. The 7th decision was proposed in this direction, and you deleted it. If he was so harmless, if you were so willing to fight corruption, then this decision would be supported. Thus, the entire government coalition voted against. Mr Bohinc, who says that everything is being treated equally, I ask how he will deal with the Director of Police Novo mesto, Mr Povšeta. A few days ago, he received a letter from a New City criminalist reminding him of the irregularities in the Novo Mesto police administration, which he had been alerting him to for years, as he himself said. And probably some of it got caught up because this investigation at the Novo Mesto Communal, which is also linked to the chief of police in New Town, was carried out by criminals from other administrations. Something must have come up. But apparently not enough to replace this boss because he's still the director. Or does he have such strong connections? I guess he's got 'em. In 2003, Police Director Novo mesto, according to this criminalist, registered a company on behalf of his wife, which also carries out printing activities among other activities. From Mirage d.o.o., which, among other things, printed for the Ministry also passports, owned by Povšetov by a good friend Robert Rotter, bought equipment and began to manufacture and acquire orders, exploiting his position and power, even though his subordinates were constantly informed of the controversial operation and involvement in the crimes of some of his friends. Mirage d.o.o. He's doing big business for the country. After the intervention of Mr Bandlja, the press of the passports makes a lot of money. With these profits she bought and rented a plane and now rents this plane to the Slovenian government, which pays a greasy rent for it, while the Slovenian government leased the plane she bought for the greasy money to another company. And, of course, the director of the Novo mesto police administration is also obviously in this bench of these related companies. Clearly, what the Minister now hears is not the first warning. This criminalist said that he had warned both the former director and the ministry earlier, and apparently this led to the composition of other teams when it came to the investigation of the Novo Mesto Commune. I ask the Minister whether we are all equal before the law, whether the director of the Novo mesto police administration is also in the investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u224	Now the word is "Director Penko," followed by Minister Bohinc. Procedural? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. I am making a case-by-case motion to suspend the meeting and continue today at 10 a.m. It is unacceptable and unworthy for both citizens and citizens, as it is for themselves, that for the first time in the history of this National Assembly this National Assembly will be held for almost six and 30 hours. As the arguments at this time are being put forward from the debate, this debate will certainly take up to 6 and 30 hours. I believe that this is unacceptable and gives this abuse to the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings, and particularly unacceptable to the issue that we are dealing with at this extraordinary meeting in order to address it by mid-morning hours. I therefore propose that we suspend the meeting and continue it at ten o'clock. Even after reviewing the obligations of the National Assembly today, I have found that there is no such great obligation to afford this national assembly. It is the normal functioning of Members and Members and I propose that we suspend the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u226	I will put this procedural proposal to the vote, reminding me that the College was of the opinion that today or in the course of today the meeting would be closed, knowing that the meeting will be held in the middle of midnight. It wouldn't be the first time we've ended the session after an hour in the morning. I think it's right for the National Assembly to decide on your procedural proposal. The majority, who will decide one way or another, will then be responsible for either the meeting or the suspension or the conclusion. So, my colleague Rokavec suggested that we stop the meeting today at 1 p.m. and continue at 10 a.m. on the same day. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. The proposal was rejected, so the meeting will continue. I think now Director Penko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to explain two things that occurred during the discussion. The first is the Red Cross case, where the procedures of the work of the state authorities were criticised. According to our data in this case, we estimate that the state authorities have acted entirely in accordance with their competences and within reasonable time limits. As soon as he received this application, the Office was publicly identified as suspicious of corruption. At the same time, this case was addressed to the State Audit Commission, the Ministry of Health, the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office, the Anti-Money Laundering Office. And the authorities have obviously acted in accordance with their powers, because, of course, trials are already open and the matter is being dealt with for our courts and for our bodies within a reasonable period of time. The second thing I would like to talk about is the same treatment before the law in another way. In this case, I must say that I must demarcate Minister Bohinc, who said earlier that the police treat everything in the same manner under the same criteria. We have different information, at least in individual cases. However, we have been approached by criminals who, in a particular case, were prevented from carrying out the investigation procedure in the way they wanted to do it. This happened in the previous term and it happened in the case of opposition policy. This needs to be known because of the truthfulness of the treatment. I therefore stress that not only one side will be burdened again, but also from the other side can have unacceptable influence not only in the direction and way that the matter is being dealt with, but also in the direction and way that the matter is not being dealt with. Of course, the Minister cannot know this because it was a message to us by a notifier who did not want to expose himself in this way because there were problems at the time that could have led to certain consequences. Our procedure in this case was to encourage the Greek international organisation's assessors, who were very little in Slovenia after having addressed a recommendation to Slovenia to place the anti-corruption department in such a way as to place it in the police and in such a way as to address any or as far as possible unacceptable influences that could come from the police administration or perhaps from outside actors. This problem therefore exists, there is a problem of unacceptable, the possibility of unacceptable influence on the police. We assess on the basis of the arguments and the facts that they exist both on the one hand and on the other. None of us here is an angel. We need to be aware of that. The problem has been tackled by the government, and the result of this problem is a measure that we have proposed, which is now also adopted in the form of a recommendation which obliges Slovenia to resolve this matter in a systematic manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Minister Bohinjc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u229	Thank you very much. My friend Penko probably thinks he's leading me around with a problem, but I don't think that's gonna happen. He's talking about the possibility that politics will have an unacceptable impact on the police. I'm not turning you down. Such an impact is and even a few media cases are known when politicians want to present the inadmissibility of political treatment against them. But this does not mean that the police are subject to or act in this way. However, this certainly does not mean that the police, that one case or several exemplars alone, some of the excess means the permissibility of generalisation, the assessment of police politicisation or the subordination of the police to politics. I reject this thesis and this exclusiveism in terms of the privileged treatment of politicians. However, in the case of isolated cases, for example, over 80,000 crimes per year, as far as the police are concerned, I certainly allow the possibility. But such individual cases, as said by colleague Penko of the previous term, certainly do not allow for the possibility of generalising an assessment of police politicisation or something like that. I applied for an answer or discussion to a discussion by my colleague Janša or to his question whether it would also act against the director of the police administration. My answer is next. It will take action against anyone, whether it be a political officer or a police officer, if there are grounds for reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed. These reasons, however, will not be identified by Mr Janša, nor by the Minister for Home Affairs, but by a professional officer, a team investigating a case that determines whether these reasons exist. The police proceedings of a criminal complaint shall not be initiated on the basis of the political views of the individual, neither on the basis of rumors nor on the basis of anonymity, but on the basis of professional police procedures. And if such procedures are carried out in this case and lead to the conclusion that the grounds for believing that crimes have been committed are justified, then I assure you that, in all other cases, the same procedure, the criminal charge, will be initiated, in short, that the police will act professionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u230	He's a friend of mine as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u231	Your Honors are here! What is interesting is the ease with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responds to the charges. I sincerely hope that it will boost this lightness of the hour and the lack of psychophysical fitness on the part of government representatives. I'd like to touch you in particular. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u232	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u233	or a comment by the school minister, Mr Gabra, through which words can actually detect the threat, if you do, but you do allow yourself to think that there was something wrong within our ministry. [[...]] Or because we have chosen that very controversial company and you are trying to convince us that this was one of the many cases that are taking place within the government. The way, the response, I don't think you can be proud. But I sincerely hope that you will state the hour as an apology. I would also like to touch further on my assessment of Mr Lahovnik's humiliating speech, the new minister, especially on the issue of the most socially endangered layer in our country, where you are solely an argument, that this is not the case or that we should be happy in Slovenia, because very little of what he says people live under the poverty threshold uses comparison with some European countries. While we have all come to realize that the rate of socially disadvantaged people is rising from year to year. Isn't that the most important criteria, Mr. Lahovnik, what's going on in our country? Is it, of course, much more important to you how this is compared to some European countries and, of course, you always take those whose statistics suit you. Furthermore, as a proposalr, I would also like to respond to Mr Bohinc's speech, namely, we are all the same before the law. Of course, we're all the same before marriage. We sincerely hope this holds true for you, too. But the fact is, from what you've done in this function, it's a certain part, and I want to use your words, political officials, a certain part, especially those who come from the opposition, very often, in my opinion, excessively often on the wallpaper within the framework of police violence. And I'll tell you that. It is very reasonable, and it is okay for these political officials to come forward at that time because they have the opportunity to speak in this national assembly because they have the opportunity to speak through the media. Because police violence, according to our assessment, is up to you and your policy as a "cop" minister. Ordinary citizens cannot react to this. And the advantage is that when it comes to politics, it reacts because it has the option. And so blaming someone and telling them that, as a politician, he represents something more, the only thing he has is the opportunity to speak publicly. And it's only right for him to speak publicly. And further, I think that all the truth or good part of the truth came from Mr Penk's words, of course. I think I'm going to quote you correctly, "for our courts and our organs, the pace is acceptable." The emphasis was on ours. To our courts and our organs. This is not right because we accept it as a fact that our organs are slow. And by doing so, we recognize that slowness is a matter of self - determination for our own. And at least in the Slovenian National Party as a proposal, we would like to change this in order to make the response a little bit stronger, the update of these authorities. And without the answer you're always putting in our mouths, it's that politics is trying to interfere with the rest of the government. I have already said in the main speech, yes, in the Slovenian National Party we wish that the judiciary and all the authorities, whether the supervision or the judicial branches of power, would be better, more effective. And if it's for the price of your eyesight, so be it. Only that the result is that the judicial authorities will be faster and that everything will be the same. But it is not that your people, based on your program, political or personal thinking, will pursue only opposition colleagues. Not that certain individuals are waiting for treatment of such a species, but that others are waiting for treatment of a different species. And there's something else. Such a very good answer as Mr Anderlich's response to his real estate adventure, when he bought the house, of course, but he did not know about the availability, I think it suggests all the banality and all the, on the other hand, the need for us to call this extraordinary meeting. For such an answer in this field indicates the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u234	Now we are moving forward with the debate. The Government and the proposer shall have the opportunity to come to the debate at any time. But we're ahead of our colleague Sok's performance. If they both run out of time, then there will be colleagues and colleagues, I will close the debate, we will go to the amendments, we will decide on the conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I still signed up for the word. I have some explanations to make. I got some explanations during the session. I think it is appropriate to respond to some of the statements made by Mr Janez Janša before this time. Above all, it is about Mobile and similar matters. First of all, of course, I'd like to mention where the profits go. We are definitely going to the state treasury and every year more, which, of course, makes us happy, and in its own way, we can also worry because the company is, of course, ahead of important investments. But good. The question is, does this profit come from any other company? We can answer with a simple question. Does Mobile or any other company buy equipment more expensive, cheaper or equal to its competitors? Is this equipment purchased in the same way as in competition and are prices in the same price classes and so on? We can answer this question that Mobile definitely does not buy more expensive. The next thing I want to mention is this one. I went to a website that has a lot of interesting material to read. I quote Svemo: import Ericsson equipment, name of the director, I don't think we're going to talk about personal names. Import Ericsson equipment, Ericsson d.o.o. offers technical support services, recording distribution transactions, most investments go through these routes. I don't know about that, but it says here. Now, the sentence, be careful: The cell phone also has significant ratings in the delivery of Ericsson's mobile phones and equipment. What's wrong? That the operator squeezes the suppliers to give him the ratings for the purchase of the equipment. That's absolutely commendable. If that's true, I'm pretty happy. That the Cell phone has ratings in the purchase of equipment, not Ericsson's ratings in the sale. So, Cell phone has a lot of ratings for the delivery of Ericsson's cell phones. All members and the President of the Administration responsible for the purchase of equipment shall seek this without exception anywhere. What is wrong with our respectable Member and his team? And the next story I have to read, I got a little wider notice -- abuse falco and "talk track". The explanation, say, of Mobile Company is something like that. In 1998, Mobitel joined with two equal partners RTV and ACIS d.o.o. and not to GMS companies in a joint alarm and monitoring project. The project was later joined by other partners, including GNT d.o.o., which did not have a significant impact on the project's progress. Mobil’s contribution to the joint project was a third, of 16 million tolars, as were the other two partners. Thus, Mobitel financed the project until market exploitation, which had never occurred, even though they had prepared in the company a presentation brochure and other activities necessary for the introduction of the product into the market. Mobil cooperated in the project with a view to implementing the project, which at the time meant for the company the possibility of offering new services in the field of alarm, monitoring and control. In addition, in 2000, the company acquired 200 pieces of equipment to enable those services to be tested and to determine the usefulness of appliances on the market and to introduce them into the market. However, experience has shown that appliances do not achieve the desired quality of results and that they have been forced to withdraw from the market by Mobil. The cell phone was only a few weeks ago and by no means signed a contract for the use of the "talk track" system among the first ones. The contract was signed by Mobil six months after the decision taken for Telekom by the previous administration of Telekom Slovenije, where one of the three tested offers was transparently chosen by this system of "talk track". Only comparison of falco and the system "talk track", based on advertising prospectuses that were made. There are two entirely different systems, both the distribution, the supply, the use of software support related to the electronics of vehicles, usable technologies, data transfer, as well as purposes. Falco was the first to protect against vehicle theft and is based on the transmission of data through SMS messages and regular data transmission via GSM, of course SMS is very expensive, on the new system and on GPRSJ. So, what can we say? Where's customerism now? I see the elements of customerism in your performance, Mr Janez Janša, as an advocate of one of the companies that is obviously, I don't know, dissatisfied came out of business, but because she didn't "come through" in the way that was explained here. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. At the same time, however, I say that neither you nor I nor the National Assembly are capable, capable and unable to judge what kind of product they are, what they differ about and what this business decision was. This is what the National Assembly can do, but it will be a question of whether this is actually the right thing to do. Among other things, you cited social research and very interesting, from those employees who identified themselves, most of the LDS and the United List should be. It's very interesting that you didn't tell me how many have not been identified. How many so-called undecided are there, either because they are undecided or because they belong to other options, but clearly, understandablely, they don't want to say so, either. So, until you tell me what is the proportion of the defined and what is the proportion of the undeclared - because I started looking for a public opinion - so long your statement cannot be valid. With regard to equality before the law, as my colleagues, ministers and ministers have said, of course I accept, but on the other hand, something of the "grains of salt" has taken away what Mr Janša said and what Mr Rupar said. I would like them to be the same not only before the law, but somewhere else, because if a mayor or a public official who is supposed to belong or belongs to the LDS does something that causes him to be persecuted, it is evidence and a sign of corruption, the corruption of the ruling elite. But when someone from the opposition does so, and this is evidence of how the government is suppressing and using judicial proceedings against innocents, it is nothing to blame - they are innocent until they are besieged -, opposition people, people who are thorns in the fifth government, ruling politicians. I wish we were the same in this, but obviously we're not. Finally, Mr Vice-President, ministers must use calm words, we must be careful how we say the sentence. I would therefore ask if, Mr Vice-President, you could prevent the shouting, as Mr Pache has afforded to ministers, and if you prevent the raising of votes from taking place at all times, and if you prevent the invocation from covering up banality and inexorability. [[?]] arguments that have been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u236	Thank you very much. My friend Janš has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u237	I don't have a replica. As one of the candidates, I would like to respond to the Government's statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u238	Then there's the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u239	Yes, to Mr. Gantar first. [[It's the wrong time.]] To Mr. Gantar, first. I am afraid that Mr Minister is slightly equal to a cashier's liberal democracy and a state treasury. It's not the same, Mr. Secretary-General. It's not the same. The fact is that the state treasury of this company does not go as far as it should and as it is paid by comparable companies with comparable market shares elsewhere in Europe. There is a substantial decrease in profits and the rest are being poured out earlier. Before you asked us, I don't know why it would be bad for a company to have a rating, and you were very passionate about defending this company. And tell me the answers to why Ericsson's Cell phone is buying it for 100 million euro sums through a private company. Why does it not directly, even though it is quite simple, why it has to buy it through the Universe, already the name of this company tells us who is with it, the seat of this company tells us who is with it, why this state-owned company buys equipment in millions of euros through this private company? If it were to buy this equipment directly, it would probably be more in the state treasury, but perhaps a little less in the way of liberal democracy, and that is probably true. As for the comparison between the falco system and the "talk treat" system, we did not think of these things, we did a series of interviews with the people who developed these systems, with the engineers who developed these systems in this company, which was a developmental company, with the engineers who developed these systems in the Mobile that were removed, because they thought it was inappropriate for them to buy the product that they had developed themselves, then from a private company, now these people are no longer in the Mobile. Of course, you and I don't get to know each other, but they get to know each other and claim what we wrote. If anyone wants to clear up these matters, the investigating authorities, they have these people available, they'll call them, and then we'll see what's going on. But when we are already in these comparisons, if you go to the website and look at these systems, you will see that offers are also from other sources from abroad from South Asia and also from Europe. Ultra does nothing of its own, imports the main circuits from Germany, including the main circuits from Germany, from the same manufacturer of the same chip, the same version. You get commercial offers that are significantly cheaper than national companies in Slovenia pay for them. You can do a simple comparison on your own because we know even if we're not engineers. As far as data are concerned, you say, these data on how political leaders in the state administration have been identified are incomplete because you have not told how many have not been identified. Most of them haven't been identified. Dear Mr Gantar, all those who have not been identified are members of the SDS- because that is clear - and New Slovenia; we have been in power for 12 years and we have only set our own. That information was missing, now you have it, and I think you'll be able to judge whether it's true or not. Tell yourself who you've set up in these 12 years, because you don't need these studies, we need them, because they confirm what they otherwise know, only if we say so, the matter is being discredited in one way or another. As regards Mr Bohinc and the Director of Police Administration in New Town. Mr Bohinc, your colleague, you're chasing Rupar for anonymity, against the director of the New Town Police, they weren't just anonymous, they were making official statements in this regard. As a result, police from New City did not investigate Novo Mesto, although it was some local utility company for which the Nova Mesto police department was fully qualified to conduct an investigation, and you called people from elsewhere. Because they knew things weren't right. Don't keep this from me now! On the other hand, he is still the director, because he has strong connections that go beyond your influence. That's why your answer was very honey, and it didn't convince me. On Mr Anderlich before, now he's gone again, I hope he's listening somewhere, I'll read again what's in the official letter to the Piran Hotel. Now I won't miss my last name like I did before. This company has sent a letter to someone who has applied for the invitation to tender, satisfied all the conditions and should have obtained the right to purchase the land, saying: "We confirm the receipt of your offer and the exercise of the preliminary property right in Strujan Soliner, which were published on the notice board of the Piran administrative unit. Unfortunately, we must inform you that these properties have already been sold under the purchase contract of 17.9.2001, Mr Anton Anderlich, and Sponcor d.o.o. ", the owner is Mojmir Ocvirk, who made a lot of money in the telecommunications business, "who have already paid part of the purchase." How? If the contract wasn't registered at all! The announcement on the billboard was merely a formality to be fulfilled by law. She really went to court. Indeed, the one who was entitled to the purchase was then given the land. But you've achieved that the fucks this contract cancelled. Under supervisory law, by a decision bearing the same number, the State authority may show it as the first decision to confirm the case annulled this consent of the administrative unit to purchase. And after four years, a man lost the land he paid for. Whether they lie in 80% or 70% of the clan is completely irrelevant in this regard. It doesn't matter. And the fact that you bought from this same company some object and didn't know that the surrounding land didn't belong to the facility, I don't believe it, and I don't think anyone else believes it either, or someone has enough money to even check whether something they buy holds. Besides, you can't do all of that. And to see these documents for the first time, I don't believe it here. I even have the original agreement with Mr Anderlič's own-time signature of 19.7.2002, where Mr Anderlič, Hotels Piran and Sponcor d.o.o., represented by Director Mojmir Ocvirk, tried to impose an agreement on this farmer in which they had obtained or would have obtained an agreement from him, because he did not sign it, part of these land sites that belonged legally to him and they would have resigned in return from the contract which did not apply anyway. When a man actually reads this, and the farmer himself said that apparently some people think that farmers are really stupid, as they imagine they can't even read, someone thought it would be "forcing." In short, I saw this thing, I didn't see it in nature, I saw it on a map, it's an elite location, just off the coast, and for 10,000 square feet it was the price of 5 million. That's not the case, I'll say, dear and extra, especially given that there were 1,400 square metres of building land hidden inside and another 1,000 square-square plot, which they didn't even mention. So it would probably be Mr Anderlič after it suddenly turned out that, if this transaction had been successful and it had turned out that there was another additional one along with these parcels and that the building land was also of priceless value, I would have said that he did not even know about it, obviously as well as for that. This excuse, if it was to find that there is no service path, is completely unfounded. If a building does not have access, then those who own the land are also obliged to make the way of service. This is provided for by legislation, even in this case this is not a problem, it belongs to this right. And you're not going to tell me that 10,000 square meters is something that's necessary for someone to get to an object. But it doesn't matter in this material or constitutional sense, the problem is that it proves that someone who fell completely innocent in this bicycle accidentally applied to some invitation to tender because he thought that the legal state was functioning, eventually remained cheated, even though he concluded a legal contract, paid the purchase, paid all taxes and taxes, got all the consent, but someone who was in power and wanted this land achieved that the deal had been cancelled. And today he is dissolved, and he who has obtained this lawfully must now sue that the matter is brought back. And the things that were hidden as machination along with it turned to what was fair in the whole matter. And if that's proof for anyone that the rule of law is working, then I really don't know how we imagine the rule of law. According to these documents here, the only body that has acted as it should is in fact the Anti-Corruption Office, which has assessed the matter as not innocent and has sent it forward because it does not have jurisdiction. I don't know. The fact is, nothing's been fixed yet. And the fact is that the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture signed the decision twice with the same number: once decided in one direction, the second after the pressure in the other direction. The same was done by many other authorities in this chain, and no one will convince me that they did this because they were inspired by God’s mercy. There was no interference on this side. Interventions came from another side. Well, it's a very long story, not to go into all the details, but it makes a man angry when someone says he sees the documents he signed for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u240	My friend Anderlich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u241	I'm sure I've seen some papers from here for the first time. Believe it or not, it's your right to do whatever you want. But why don't you ask yourself why this gentleman of yours, who is obviously very close to you and informs you about everything, was not interested in the agricultural land they offered him. But he was interested in the path, the protected forest, the barren land, which is in an area where the path was supposed to be accessible. So it says here, "as long as you are still interested in buying any land in Strunjan that has a better position and is more suitable for agricultural activity, please contact our secretariat to agree on a sales price, as we have some more land to sell." Before that, they said they were selling for six months and there was no interest. As far as I'm concerned, it's always better. And that attempt, when you read as an abuse and I don't know what, was just that that land that would otherwise serve as a journey and to regulate that area and it's infertile in its work to trade for fruitful, if it really does deal with agricultural activity. That's all, but he obviously didn't want it. He probably wanted to guess, he wanted to speculate, and so on. Obviously, these papers are very clear. I really can't explain it to you. But if you want to get to know each other in more detail, be that much, and call this gentleman who has explained this to you, and we will be ready to face each other at any time without any bad news and we will immediately see what the interest is. Also, once again, on the face of the city - I have no doubt that you have everything taken, I have no doubt that you have also done something else around you, but without anyone wanting to solve the real problem, in this case it is only about this, no purpose was to engage in agricultural activities, no possibility there in the protected forest and on that barren land is not for building up, etc. So it's just stuffing, but now I'm really not gonna stop by. But if you are able and ready, but you and this gentleman, who is obviously so well informed, can meet and look at what is really going on and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u242	Director Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u243	Perhaps it is not particularly important for our taxpayers whether Mr Anderlič bought the forest or perhaps part of the seabed in this particular matter. I think it is important that this message is that the LDS case A is treated exactly the same as the R case from the SDS, at least as far as we and the authorities as we have given up matters to them are concerned, only when we have them in our hands. And that's what's important right now to communicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u244	Now he has the floor to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u245	Look, Mr. Anderlich, I can read to you what these parcels this farmer bought. It's not true that it's just infertile soil. Out of nine thousand and a few square meters, the path is only a plot of 36 square meters. But the forest, the pasture, the barren is only a thousand square feet out of 9,000 and something else, according to the document you signed. And I doubt, Mr. Penko, that what you just said holds true for everyone. He's holding for your office, and he certainly doesn't hold that for some ministries. Certainly not for the Ministry which has annulled this matter by a decision having the same number as the decision which has confirmed the transaction. I'm sorry, it's obvious at first sight that this didn't happen by accident. And talking about it being proof that the rule of law is working, I really don't know that. If the rule of law were to work, then the matter would remain where the Piran District Court ruled. That the company that called for the sale had issued an invitation to enter into a business and had also concluded it. And that would remain so if it were not contrary to the interests of those who are in power and who could then put pressure on the ministries, on the congregation, on the administrative unit and on the court.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u246	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u247	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Ministers, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members. First of all, I would like to say and agree with all those who warn that this debate is unnecessary at this hour. If the gentlemen of the position you have decided to do so had the intention and hearing to resolve some of the matters that are actually pressing, we could peacefully agree to continue this meeting tomorrow. Now you want us to finish this at this hour and then with some conclusion - "It's all right, nothing's wrong" - let's continue the matter. I also agree with those who said that, in fact, an extraordinary meeting was not necessary and would not be necessary if, in Slovenia, we had a stable democracy, if we had some democratic standards in place. A few days ago, our Committee on Agriculture was at a seminar in Brussels, and there we were told that two ministers had resigned in the dioxin affair in Belgium, and the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture were not directly guilty, but for objective reasons with responsibility. And we know a lot about such cases from Europe. What happens to us? With us they poured more than a hundred million milk into farmers, made out of them, I don't know, repeaters, criminals, and I don't know what else they started investigations to come to them - nothing happened, no one answered. In a cell hospital they forgot to look at the pathology of the tissue, I don't know how many people probably because of this misdiagnosis had to go to another world prematurely - nothing happened. And because of this, of course, nothing happens, it is also necessary to convene an extraordinary meeting and to discuss these matters at an extraordinary meeting. Now, I'd like to talk to you about some of the things that have been said here. For example, the Minister of Police said that if you know the cases that represent - well, the Minister of the Interior or whatever you want - he said if you know the issues and report them and we will act. Look, I presented here two months ago to the former Minister of Justice the problem of how they owned the basic cooperative organisations in the framework of the forest economy in 1992. 12 people took possession of a huge amount of property, there was an application, the minister told me he didn't know about the application, the people who reported it then had it on them - nothing happened. And if this is the way things are going - yes, then who is going to report it, and who is going to act in the way that the Minister is proposing to us here. I strongly agree with you that we must all be equal before the law and that it would be very wrong for one to be treated differently from the other. However, I myself know the mayor's case from our own species, when three quarters of a six-liter house was surrounded by police. Well, that's not the worst of it. He has this right, and they had a warrant to investigate everything, and they went to the congregation from there, but the worst part was that he was expected by a television camera and a journalist. But that's bad. Everything else isn't bad. The fact that it is - I am not saying that the police have sent this message, but someone who has been in this connection - had to know that this is the way the matter has to go and, of course, come to the public before anything is found. And if that's how you are in public once, then you're guilty and accused. Minister Gaber here is teaching us how to behave, what we wrote down. He likes to tell us that we spread the truths, that we deceive, even use the word to lie, and so on. At the February session, I asked him what was going on with the appointment of principals. I also argue that the politically active directors, I gave him a list one month later, belong more or less to the LDS and the United List's political options. That's when he told me, I'll read it. In this country, principals get practically automatic, and that's what people tell me, otherwise the Minister's consent. Only when more than half of the people in the Chamber are against them do they get no consent or when the procedure has been mismanaged. This is where the Lady from Kapel Elementary turned. She said I could use these documents. She got a vote in secret in the collective. In a secret vote, the Council of the Institute elected her principal, and the Minister wrote: "I will not give my consent." As a diploma, he sent her: without explanation, without everything else, he arbitrarily decided: I will not give consent. Isn't that the way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u248	Let's stick to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u249	I would say that political corruption can be said by the Minister in such a way: I will not give my consent. [[...]] And his is valid! He has no responsibility! Responsibility is in the world of the institution, responsibility is in the teaching assembly, and he is the one who arbitrarily decides. Is that still the case in any other country in Europe? I know these are unpleasant things when we talk to you like this and you can laugh and make fun of it because you have this great power. But these are facts that we can argue and that we can present here. I am very pleased to hear about these lands today. And I'm going to remind you how we passed the agricultural land law because I'm alone a lot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u250	Let's stick to the agenda, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u251	Yeah, I'm hanging in there. What about the others when they talked about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u252	I didn't intervene with that note for the first time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u253	You gave Mr. Anderlich three replicas, I don't know, five minutes so he could answer that unscrupulous thing. Now you're telling me to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u254	You're not the first to be warned. I've been here many times. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u255	I would like to say that when we passed the Agricultural Lands Act, the LDS Members and the United Kingdom prevented the amendment of the law from being adopted. And that we had a situation in this country for about a month when agricultural land transport was not regulated by law. What happened back then, I don't know. But today, when I listen to this, I keep thinking back. Before that, the Constitutional Court repealed the chapter on agricultural transport. For what purpose, I wonder. Why did they cancel it? Because then you made the legal movement of agricultural land in a completely different way. And Mr Anderlichje was very active in these discussions. He was greatly assisted by Mrs Lidija Majnik, who had similar aims as likely colleague Anderlich. And then you changed who can be the first to buy, what is the order, the whole chapter of the lease right you've changed and so on. On the basis of the Constitutional Court’s decision, you also annulled the land maximum, which refers to 200 hectares of comparable agricultural areas owned, not owned, owned. Most countries in the European Union have this right because the land is not an unlimited good. And today, when I hear that, I know exactly what's going on here, and I already knew what's going on. The last transitional property in Slovenia will be the ownership of land and Slovenian forests. Now I would like to say something else about what we have proposed as points in this process, but before that, I would like to say the following. In fact, Mr Pavel Gantar shocked me today with two of his statements. At first, he said that at the beginning of the ownership process it was known that this procedure could not be free of charge and that some would have to pay for social loss. I wonder whether it is true that we have not reclassified the social loss to a public debt that today - I don't know, Mr Lahovnik will probably be able to tell more about denationalisation about how much we owe today. According to some data, €12 billion, but a lot of people in this property process did not get anything, and that is true. And the next statement he made here, he said that there's a lot of money in the budget from Mobileo budget money, and I'm asking, when is this government going to do the referendum will and return what people have invested in developing telephony either in money or in shares? Now that we are ahead of the elections, there are some lists for settlement through public defence, but this is just another move that will work until the elections. In view of how this government has taken over the ownership process - what it has said here today - I can conclude in my mind that it is not actually possible to expect from this title and people can hope that this process of return to telephony will not go in the same direction as it was voted in the referendum. Second. I'd like to touch the point mentioned in this material, Zbilski Gaj. Look, before this Zbilsky grove, there were other affairs going on in this direction, but the government didn't react until it reached the Zbiljega grove. However, when Zbilski Gaj appeared and there were certain political officials or relatives of political officials involved, then, of course, appropriate legislation was adopted and the problem was resolved. However, even at this very moment, he is not saved, and many are still waiting for what they have invested to be recovered in this affair. But when we talk about housing issues, it's predicted here, I'm sure it's a new affair. This year, a savings scheme of 20,000 savers is being released. We know that, after this austerity scheme, they also obtained one meal a year from the budget, the apartments - on the one hand there are not, on the other hand, prices are rising, although Mr Edward Owen is in this project, which some have called the "residential project of LDS", ensuring that housing is sufficient and that prices are appropriate. Now this story is running out, Mr Owen is leaving, and the problem in this area, of course, remains. Yesterday I attended - earlier, Minister Gantar said that everyone should be equal before marriage. If anyone wants to do this, that's for sure what we want in the opposition. For we believe that at least as far as media space is concerned, we are far from united. I will just say the case from yesterday; Nova Slovenija organized a camp in Trebnje, where we presented our list for the European elections. About 3,000 of our members gathered, and when I arrived in the evening and looked at the Reflections, I could then find that there was not a single sentence about this. But I could hear, let's say Mr. Jakich spoke, I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u256	This is certainly not the subject of this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u257	The subject is equality before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u258	The subject is not equality before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u259	Mr. Gantar said. Well, I get it. Government officials can say anything. They say anything. I would like to point out that we are not all the same before the law, and that is what people in this country are increasingly feeling and increasingly understanding. Therefore, it is the opposition who must warn. You know, I was a while ago, and you probably went to the Dachau concentration camp and it says at the entrance. A few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany on a legal path, they began building this concentration camp. So the opposition must be the one to warn. Even then, not all the deviations and the turrets were alerted, so the system brought [[...]] [[The riots in the parliamentary benches.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u260	Please, please! Please, I have repeatedly said that the Member is responsible for the words. He's got to stick to the agenda, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u261	I didn't hurt anyone. All I said was how they didn't notice what was going on there, and in the end, the system came together and it came in the same direction that it should never have come. And that's why the opposition is always, even when you're in opposition, you'll be in that position to draw attention to the mistakes that are going on. I'd like to [[...]] [[The feedback from the bench.]] No, there's never any power forever. [[...]] That's for sure. So because there are too many different affairs; I would like to say that in the case of the work of the committee Friday we have warned of unfair work with permits. We have also referred this matter further. To this day, I don't know if anything would move in this matter, nor in other matters. In the main, the Attorney General, who at the time also received the case, who was informed of it, is today the Justice Minister. And I think that, in fact, the biggest problem is in all of these different affairs, which do not end up with us in certain excusable judgments or indictments, whatever the problem is in the functioning of our judicial system. We were also reminded of this by German Judge Doukoff and, of course, as an opposition Member, he would expect something to move in this area. I was very surprised by the statement when the lady ran for justice minister when she said that in fact the prosecution in Slovenia was national sport. I think this is a very unfortunate statement, because first the judicial authorities must do what their institution is. They must respond properly as an institution, and then, of course, there will not be as many lawsuits as is possible at first sight in our country and is happening. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the statement made here by Mr Lahovnik. For he said that, during the time of the Bajuk government, a law on consumer credit was passed and that this law was supposed to somehow lead to the Orion affair. I think that even with this amendment to the law now adopted by the National Assembly, when, of course, it is necessary to go to the notary and make contracts in the form of a notary record, nothing will actually be better, because all these affairs have happened before; even when the treaties were made by notaries. As far as denationalisation is concerned. You blame denationalisation for the growing social disparities in Slovenia, and I must tell you, Mr Minister, that the law on denationalisation has brought about the need to return to nature first. And if the farmers have returned to the land in nature, of course, it is a means of production that they can produce so that they can survive in this united Europe and generate comparable income. Of course, there would never have been denationalisation if there had been no other procedure called nationalisation before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u262	My friend Jakich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Article 70, I would like an explanation. Yesterday, as a European Member, I was invited to speak to the fighters and fighters of the second group of teams in Janca, the people who were the only ones who opposed nazifasm in Slovenia and Europe and, together with European and American allies, fought a victory and I thanked them on behalf of my generation for this. So it has nothing to do with your pre-election campaign that you've been running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u264	Just a minute. Procedurally, mate Kremjar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u265	President, procedural protest. I'm protesting against it. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u266	Peace in the hall! [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, no, no. [[...]] Comrade Jakich, you have no word. This is also a violation of the rules of procedure. My friend Jakich. Please, my friend Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I'm protesting on a case-by-case basis against the President, the manner in which the meeting is held. And I'm sorry to have to tell you this, against the way that it came from some, in the beginning of normal, meeting in some sort of street accounting. And please! Debates that aren't debates, names that just throw themselves away, people who get so muddy, lies that just throw themselves away, every five seconds someone pulls up a piece of paper and tells some other stories. This doesn't belong in the National Assembly. And it's not an honor to this national council. And I'm not talking about the content of this. Let the gentlemen, and ours and there, convene a press conference to convene a convention of the parties, and let them talk about these things. In the National Assembly, we have a document submitted by the proponents, which says what it is, we have the government's answers in which it is. Here we tell you all: from Mrs Cerarov's performance in this National Assembly to some papers that Mr Janša has the whole kupina can still have - to tell them elsewhere, not in this National Assembly and not in this way! We're talking about a subject that is. And please, the President, it is in your hands to ensure the normal work of Parliament. No matter what late hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u268	You know, if the difference between what is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in relation to the subject matter of consideration and what is not, so clear, then it would be much easier to conduct the meeting. You have to admit that. This segment isn't always that clear. An intervention in the right to a word could also be misused on many occasions in this case on my part. Of course, I appeal to the responsibility of every individual, I am also aware of my responsibility to conduct the meeting and I am trying to conduct this session most in my power. So I'm asking everyone to stick to the item on the agenda. It's a replica. Then Minister Gaber and Minister Cerarjevo have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u269	To the gentlemen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u270	Let me ask you something.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u271	To Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u272	No, no. You can't replicate that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u273	He's, he's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u274	No, no, no. Excuse me. Could you sit down, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u275	He was saying something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u276	Comrade Sok, can you sit down, please? I shouldn't have given you a replica because there's no reason to explain. He explained his vision of what you said, and there's no reason for controversy. You'll get your word in the debate ahead. Mr. Gaber has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say to Mr Sok that I am almost certain that in this case, not naming a candidate as principal was about not receiving majority support in the collective. But since the clock is late and, of course, it is difficult to speak without jobs that could explain it in the background, because you have been prepared by this proposal, I will, of course, give you this document at your disposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u278	Minister Cerarev. Please. But now Comrade Sok can replicate and then Minister Cerarov has the floor. Minister Cerarev. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u279	Thank you very much. In the previous case, I did not trouble myself with what Mr Jakič said. I said that in the framework of that set of preparations for the European elections he appeared that you, Mr Pahor, also appeared, but that, for example, from New Slovenia, which met and hosted Elmar Brök, there was not a single sentence. That's what I wanted to warn you. As for the Minister, I will hand it over to him, even if I can show her to the camera, she was elected by secret ballot, here you have ten - eight she got in the world of the institution, she got nine-eight from the collective, but she didn't get your consent, and you can face it and tell why you didn't give your consent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u280	Minister Cerarjev first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I think it's really hard to deal with society's irregularities in such a way that concrete cases are drawn to day by those who are supposed to be explained [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u282	Peace in the hall. Dr. Bajuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u283	And maybe that's funny, because you all have your specific cases, because you're not exempt, but there's not a person so unfair as to do it on a case-by-case basis. Otherwise, I'll tell you, long-term evil is not worth it. But there's something I'd like to tell you. On the property. The State has noted that the rules are not sufficient to regulate criminal matters that have had many irregularities and have, of course, led to the misdistribution of money. In doing so, I mean social property compared to private property. This is why an agency has been set up to revise the property transformation of companies, which has made a report every year.You will see that it has taken care that these are illegal or irregular, cannot say illegal, irregular flows have returned to the state property. This was a very good tool to establish a state that would otherwise not be achieved at the criminal level. Second thing. I would like to explain some phenomenon in our society that I told him was becoming a national sport, and this is fertilization. And here's a living example of this. What we do all along is readjust faults in a way that you cannot prepare in advance, do not collect evidence, or do not present evidence. The same thing happens to us in justice. Someone experiences a judgment he is not satisfied with, a possible remedy has a complaint against him, but no, not a complaint, but a criminal complaint against the judge. And if he doesn't like the D.A.'s decision, then press charges against the D.A. And these are abuses. There are only abuses at a private level that have to hurt the whole country because they're going to get hurt once in a while. And these illegalities! This is an unfair argument that citizens from above behave in a different way than the legal order allows them to do. And that is why I am convinced that powwowing among myself is such a negative phenomenon that we should give him sharp boundaries as soon as possible. In the framework of justice, of course, we are doing what is possible. And when you mention the Friday case, there are also issues of ethical boundaries of participants when, for example, for the purpose of delaying a procedure or stopping a procedure, a criminal complaint is filed against one of the participants. But today to me, tomorrow to you. I tell you this, once in a while, it is in the best interest of everyone, and certainly it is not in the country's honour and contravention of the rule of law. I would also like to tell you that the Ministry of Justice is trying to take measures in a legislative sense that would lead to better solutions: on the one hand, to more efficient work, to faster work, which also means introducing certain controls, and on the other hand, to use such instruments, which, by comparison, are already showing results in better developed countries. You can thus be satisfied with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act. You will soon receive a new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the law on judicial service, the law on courts, etc. I want to say that, however, we need to look at when we are discussing that certain irregularities are happening in our country, that we are also acting against it; that we are acting to put it on our fingertips as such. And it is likely that when negatives are discussed, a positive viewpoint should also be considered. And when you mention Mr Doukoff; I consider his role to be very positive. He has shown us where the weaknesses of our system and its thoughts are and it is a great credit to the idea of just changing the legislation that you have already adopted, and you will partly get it on the table. I would like to mention one more thing that does not seem irrelevant to me when we are talking about the legal protection of our citizens - free legal aid. We as a social state guarantee it, but we have found that in a way that is very expensive and actually leads to a certain degree, then leave the person alone. In this area, we will have to think things through. I want to tell you that this project is also ongoing and that justice will continue to work through all its institutions for the benefit of citizens and the benefit of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u284	Minister Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've reviewed the documentation my colleague Sok has with me. It shows that 22 teachers and teachers, i.e. professional workers, were employed at this school, that 21 voted and that the candidate he talks about received 10 votes. Our services have been judged in accordance with the instructions [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u286	Not from the bench to polynomize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u287	which is part of the circle, and in that country, it is considered that whenever a candidate or candidate fails to reach at least half of the votes, the Ministry does not give consent because the assessment is such that it is virtually impossible to expect quality collective leadership if you do not have half the support in it. [[...]] In this particular case, the documentation accompanying it shows that it is practically a two-part decommissioned collective, none of which has achieved half support, and the world has also voted almost halved, so it seems appropriate for our professional services to repeat the call there and that they are trying to agree on the best solution at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u288	There is no controversy, just a correction of ambiguity or a false indication.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u289	Well, Mr. Secretary has answered my question. In this country, principals get practically automatic, and that is what people tell me, otherwise, the Minister's consent; in the case of more than half of the people in the House against them, they don't get consent or when the procedure has been mismanaged. In this vote, the candidate received 10 votes in favour and 8 against. Where is the one who didn't vote is the other? It says when there's more than half of them in the chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u290	Good. Let's move on. Minister Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u291	Mr Sok, if I understand you correctly, you are saying that between this law on consumer credit and those adopted on 8 August 2000 there is no difference in either way or irregularities will happen, as you said, if this is not important now if the notary is to be concluded. I would like to read to you Article 7a, which is amended and says: "The consumer mortgage credit agreement must be concluded in the form of a notary record. When concluding the notary record, the owner of the property on which the mortgage or land debt is established shall be personally present, provided that the owner of the property is a natural person operating outside his professional or acquisition activity." The following article also states: "The property of the property referred to in the preceding paragraph must be specifically taught about all the legal consequences of the credit agreement and its collateral, in particular what the net value of the credit is, what the effective interest rate is and what the legal consequences of default are." And what's most important is: "The owner must confirm in the notary record that the notary has taught him all the legal consequences." I mean, the difference is obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u292	We continue the debate. Comrade Kontic, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u293	Thank you very much. This consideration, of course, aims to create an opinion in the public that everything is now wrong in our country. This is also a point whose content does not require concrete solutions of a programming nature, but is enough to show a political competitor, if not an opponent, as a client, more so than a group that is only an instrument for enriching them and their loved ones. Thus, on the basis of their few months of experience, individuals present themselves as rulers. Therefore, the requirements for participation in the management of economic operators also apply. Let me be allowed not to believe that it is difficult to participate simply in order to avoid irregularities in the future. It is much closer to me to think that by participating in the management and supervision of companies, you just want to get your pot. And when we talk about that it is wrong for politics to get involved in the economy, at the same time, you just want to shift the power of influence rather than eliminate it. At the same time, I must admit that it would work and actually be very naive if I thought that no sponsorship was also linked to the influence that an individual has. Why else would individual societies, whether sports or other, want different influential personalities for their presidents - but I don't just mean politics. But mark all of this as corruption and privilege, but it's not going to work. At the same time, this would mean that none of the politicians should participate in any association in the free time they have, because any financing of this would constitute a controversial act. This would also point out that any of our presence anywhere in any organisation or society would be detrimental, since no one who would otherwise co-financed the activity would do so because of our involvement. But it is very controversial that someone takes advantage of his reputation and influence. We have a clear definition of what is criminal in the legislation, and this must be pursued. But for this prosecution, there is also a legal procedure. This is certainly not a debate, at a meeting of the National Assembly. There is nothing wrong with noting irregularities in this Chamber and at the same time indicating the possibility of amending legislation in order to prevent acts of dispute. This text, which today serves as a basis for discussion, certainly does not have the content to enable it, while at the same time transforming the National Assembly into an investigative body, as if in our country the system, except in this house, does not work. It is also a major underestimation of a person in one particular case, which is at the same time described as the most powerful or influential in Slovenian politics and at the same time found that he has been employed in a company that helped him acquire funds and also profitable transactions before this influence. Would this person be employed in this company - probably not. For some time now, we have been listening to the observations of the LDS in this Chamber, and the debaters are very careful not to forget to mention my customers, too, without evidence. It is particularly important to list as many irregularities as possible before the elections, even if they are not true and to repeat them as many times as possible. Maybe they'll just get caught. For the words spoken, however, there is still a welcome parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u294	The sleeve.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, the rest are present. In abnormal situations, we are holding this meeting, and this is also the goal of the ruling coalition, that in abnormal situations, as little as possible in this country, we also learn what is also happening in irregularities. You have affected citizens and citizens probably for one whole night to watch the meeting in the National Assembly, of course, very nice. No, you hurt them because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u296	There's no controversy in the bench. We've already said that several times today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u297	Mr President, please allow this House to have a normal debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u298	You're the only one who has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u299	For such college appointments, normal monitoring and the work of the National Assembly is, of course, impossible for citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues from the post, but I am already at the first extraordinary meeting in the case of SIB Bank, at the second extraordinary meeting concerning SIB Bank, then I will say and today will repeat a very important thesis. Until the ruling policy and influential officials have withdrawn from the supervisory boards of public enterprises, enterprises owned by the majority of the state, this will be a prerequisite for corruption and customerism in this country. And if the ruling coalition has anything to do with this, then it should adopt appropriate laws in this direction. I would also expect this from the very ambitious, after the performances, Minister of Economy, Dr Lahovnik, but I have not heard these words in this National Assembly from the distinguished Mr Lahovnik, and I expect that I may hear them in this sense, in this direction perhaps at some point. However, the fact is that this practice, which emerges and which is rooted and rooted in our country, is, at least at national level, at least causes these depths, which we have witnessed, in a more extensive work in recent years. Besides corruption and clientism, what causes this dictatorship of political personnel in the worlds of vision? The fact that this country is being further centralised, including as in the former system, that successful directors are being phased out. Or is it because they're too small a sponsor? And when I ask the Minister for the Information Society, Mr Gantar, what is the word of the government when appointing or dismissing Director Telekom, this simple reply is that it is the responsibility of the Minister to have nothing to do with it. Yeah, out with politics! But that was probably just the jurisdiction of Liberal Democracy. This is probably just the jurisdiction of Liberal Democracy and, of course, no one else. In this particular case, I believe that it is bad to literally create feuds, political feuds, where, of course, some parties have their own feud in the lease and do not let anyone in. This is a problem which, of course, also causes negative shifts in this society. And I'm very disappointed in the new justice minister. Among other things, it says that the ostracisation of citizens is contrary to the rule of law. Yeah, well, that's the legal system we have! This allows for this legal system. The legal system must also be such as to enable a citizen to seek his or her right in court. But if there are irregularities here, if there are exploitations, then of course I would expect them to come with a change of law. But colleagues and colleagues from the post, when they were ready for constitutional changes in the judiciary early this year, there was also readiness in the United List, which first withdrew. Then, of course, the LDS also withdrew with regard to the introduction of the so-called experimental age of five years in the appointment of judges. Of course, since it has been found that there would be a serious intervention in the higher quality of the judiciary, since similar arrangements are also available in most European countries with so-called trial years, they have, of course, retreated back. This is better not to change, of course, it better stay the way it is. That's a mistake. We should also allow a certain sieve to be made here, and above all a higher quality in the field of justice. And also competition. Now some are simple gods when they are given a permanent mandate. And if you advocate so much that there is no corruption and clienteleism, then, colleagues and colleagues in your position, simply mock yourself and this national assembly with the proposals of the decisions of the parent committee. Give me one reason why you proposed to the parental committee for four months. For every citizen knows that this national assembly will no longer work! If you have any responsibility for this problem, then I expect you, of course, to accept the amendments that we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party Group. In this mandate, the government should give what is, of course, also by law, to the National Assembly; and the National Assembly should also do the work that is, of course, also within its competence. Every move, of course, in the form of such conclusions, is a mockery of democracy and a mockery of the role of this Parliament. And for the end of two more things, because time is running immensely fast. I was deeply saddened by the Minister of Economy's statement that the distribution in Slovenia is not such a problem. That, of course, what we have experienced in the last 10, 12 years, is something completely normal, still above Europe and so on, and that there is no problem over what has happened, even with wild privatisation in this country. Simply, tell me, how many cases have been definitively legally disclosed in the wild privatisation process? There are very few cases in which they have received the final epilogue. It was a fraud of the century with regard to the efforts made by citizens and citizens. And now you will say: everything is beautiful and right within the legal system that we have in this country, of course, the prosecution has done its job, the police have done their job, the judiciary has done its job. No, with such a small ransom, ladies and gentlemen, one has to imagine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u300	Thank you. Dr. Gantar and Director Penko are on their way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Of course, I am responding to what Mr. Rokavec said. He started promisingly and would agree with him, and I also believe that the presence of politicians or politically colored people in the supervisory councils is not a good solution, especially in the supervisory board of economic societies. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[Wait a minute, thanks for the comment, I'll answer it.]] And it is true that the Supervisory Councils, especially in economic societies, are as apolitical as possible, that they have representatives of the economy, professionally and economically established people who enjoy the government's trust to serve in the supervisory councils. And that, by the way, is what we're doing, at least me in telecommunications, if we're talking about Telekom's control council. Then Mr Rokavec claims - a 180-degree conversion and protestes why, in fact, the president of the administration and I do not know what he has not been appointed in coalition coordination. That's ridiculous. You've turned on yourself. In fact, he will have to explain what is right now: either that he is chosen by the Supervisory Council, as it is in law, or that it is a subject of coalition trade. Coalition trading and general coordination, sometimes trading, is not a particularly good thing, it takes place primarily in the mandate of the previous government, when you were in this government and we are -- I tell you, from my experience, it has been faced with the fact that we have to put coalition boards in water management companies and I don't know what to satisfy some of the political appetites, although until then these holy and administrative committees of water management companies have been composed only of people from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment and perhaps some from the local community. And thank God we resisted that, and we have achieved that this has not happened. Therefore, I ask you to take a little care of your own history when you read the irregularities to others so that we do not show anything else and bring out of this or previous mandates. The LDS also assumed its responsibility for telecommunications policy only in 2001, not before, after these elections. Until then, we had no responsibility for telecommunications policy in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u302	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u303	Mr. Secretary, look, this is the case. In this case, it is indeed a question. Just before this removal, it was heard with praise, including by the government, also on your part, about Mr Grašk as the appropriate director. Suddenly there was a change, of course, and then the payment of fabulous departures. But this is all normal if the company is successful in doing business, if, of course, it wants to give less funding to create more profits - then it is rewarded by suspending it. And if then the coalition party proposes that the coalition also speak at its top of the coalition, then the question is, what should the coalition do if, of course, the minister is so self-involved and, of course, works according to the principle of his party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u304	Director Penko, then Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u305	Thank you. There are two things I'd like to point out. The first is the incompatibilities of the performance of the function in the supervisory and other bodies. I think that all these issues are adequately and sufficiently addressed in the new anti-corruption law, if you look at Articles 20 to 23, you will probably find in them all those cases where conflicts of interest may arise and which these articles prohibit or result in violations of these Articles leading to the beginning of the termination of the mandate of the official acting accordingly. The second point relates to justice and to the testimony of the Minister of Justice regarding incorrect statements concerning the prosecution, the complaints and so on. I myself have worked for quite some time in the judiciary as a judge and as a member of the Ministry of Justice, and I know the situation well enough to give an opinion here. Indeed, justice simply cannot solve problems if citizens do not respect laws and do not act in a spirit of the rule of law. If we have about 500,000 cases a year in the courts, it is impossible to expect that our courts will be up-to-date if there is no payment discipline, if the actual prosecution is in some way the way and way that citizens behave, then we cannot attribute to justice the responsibility that the situation in our country, in our society, is as it is. Perhaps more justice could be done, but here you too will have to assume your share of responsibility, for most ministers were from your party during these last years, say, years. And without telling them, I have experience of their well-intentionedness, perhaps the problem in this area was lack of vision, lack of concepts. Every new minister has brought new ideas; what has been built before has collapsed, no continuity, no lasting development in this area. And now we are in a state where we are: judicial reform only because of reforms, laws that have not yet been written. Of course, everyone has his share of responsibility in this area, but I can argue that corruption and what is happening in our judiciary do not have a direct link, a link in the way that justice is corrupt and that there is therefore illegal proceedings. No, there are other problems, objective, lack of attention for certain problems and so on and therefore also poorer treatment or almost inability to deal with, say, these larger, heavier issues that are now being dealt with in some way by the public instead of being dealt with by the competent institutions. But here the responsibility is shared and it needs to be identified, and then everyone must assume their share of the responsibility for the situation that is currently under government in our justice. Until the concept of vision and sufficient time is available to resolve the situation systematically in this area, we cannot expect success for so long.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u306	Minister Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u307	Mr. Rokavec, I didn't say that disclosure wasn't a problem. However, I spoke about what aspects of everything need to be looked at, why dispersion arises, so that we can also reduce this dispersion by means of an appropriate tax system.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u308	Good. Let's move on. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u309	First of all, I would say that, on multiple readings by government representatives, how some names are thrown in here and people who are named cannot respond. We have proposed that all those mentioned in the paper be invited to the meeting. When the first meeting was called, they were even invited to their mother's working body, said to be unable to attend the plenary session, the Rules of Procedure were not permitted. When it was now being discussed on the working body for this second reference, Mr Lavrinc simply did not invite anyone. He did not invite anyone: neither representatives of the prosecution nor representatives of certain state institutions. It is not true that we have only proposed representatives of those companies mentioned. We have also proposed that representatives of the prosecution and those authorities who could answer questions be invited. And they weren't invited to work! Thus, the responsibility for not telling their own side of the story lies with the ruling coalition, or here specifically with the president of the Internal Policy Committee. To Mr Gantar, I would remind Mr Gantar to read the coalition contract. The Coalition Treaty, which now applies to Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, states that a coalition will be deployed. So, Mr. Gantar, don't say you resisted! If you resisted, you violated a coalition contract you wrote yourself. How you resisted that, but it's clear. You resisted this work so that someone else would come along. For what the LDS had recruited was declared professional, but if anyone else wanted to join it, it was declared political and political. But everything that came from the LDS was professional. And what kind of profession this was, it turned out in this case, mentioned earlier by Comrade Rokavec. It has been said that good directors who make profits in public companies are rewarded, let alone such promotions and recruitment. But in the case of Mr Grašk, who, with a little bit of cutting of these sponsors, increased profits - just a few days ago data were published. Mr. Grašek raised from one billion profits to six, apparently, according to these balances. But he was replaced for the prize! It's the expertise of Liberal Democracy! Because she is not interested in income in these state-owned companies, she is obviously interested in what Mr Grašek cut. These are sponsorships. And that's why he was replaced. As far as this talk is concerned, how much of the lawsuit is and so on, and that is why the courts are swamped. Now, Mr. Penko, don't blame me, but sometimes you call me naive. It is true that at least after these cases that we have dealt with here, as far as your office is concerned, we could not say that you did not do the right thing. After these matters, which we have seen in the course of this hearing at the previous three meetings on a similar subject and went through your office, there is really nothing to report. You've even pushed some things forward. I am referring to the suspicion of corruption in connection with Ericsson, even here in this case the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy has been dismissed, has not been placed in a drawer. And I think that's why your office has been shut down, maybe you think something else, and I think that this has contributed a lot, that this is exactly the kind of correctness that has contributed greatly to the fact that you no longer do this job and that someone who is more reliable by the ruling option is doing it. But as for this talk, how many lawsuits there are and how it employs courts, of course, you added that if laws are not respected, there is no way to achieve this. This is much closer to some correct determination of the situation than to this statement by the Minister of Justice, when people complain too much and then the courts have too much work and cannot give priority. But why is there such a situation that people do not respect laws? Because they see that this is not done at the top, because they see that those who do not respect the rules of the game are profiting because they are breaking at the top. Who causes payment non-discipline - mainly state institutions, where they pay late and then it goes back. Those entrepreneurs who see that more is achieved through corruption will, sooner or later, intervene because they do not survive otherwise; but this comes from the top and not then accuse the crowds who follow the example from the top, that they are swamped by institutions and that they are therefore ineffective. Give a good example, and it'll spread all over the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u310	Comrade Lenko? It's not. Comrade Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u311	One of them said that I would not come until four o'clock in the morning, but that I was before that which was good; and a good evening all together. I think Mr Rokavec said that this meeting of ours is a real disgrace to the rule of law, something similar he said. I agree with that. Indeed, what we are doing from yesterday to today is a disgrace to what the State Assembly represents in the state's legal order and what we are doing here. It is also known that, by chance, I am in this National Assembly, which has the lowest possible reputation of all institutions in Slovenia and which will therefore be even lower; that the session itself was very strange today or yesterday, you have evidence on the vote on the agenda. We are really idiots in a position because we voted in favour of the agenda, and we are proposing an extraordinary meeting against it. Of the 23 candidates for this extraordinary meeting, 11 voted against, including Mr Janša and Bajuk, 2 of us, 10 of them were not as they are now, and they don't care what they say all day, but one did not vote. I am talking about the agenda for today's session, where the central point of the demand for dealing with corruption is you voted against
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u312	Comrade Janš, don't mess with the benches. Please, this applies to you too, Dr. Bajuk. My friend Auschwitz has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u313	Mr Janša said that I am a little confused, I protest that you allow him to do so, but let him take a look at the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u314	I said, Comrade Janš has no words, no one but you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u315	Let him take a look at the list of votes on the agenda at which item 2 is now under consideration. [[...]] The material we received for the convening of this meeting says that the common features of all the major affairs of the last decade in Slovenia are from 1 onwards to 9, 11 - and then there are several. But where are those six months when you ruled, and when there was a whole bunch of irregularities that you're reading to us, the same or the same? The obvious, one of the eyewitnesses was Mr Sok's observation regarding the appointment of directors. In 2000, the then Minister of Government in Bajuk issued a negative agreement or refused to appoint the head of the primary school of Cerklje ob Krka, which had the full support of all employees in the school, the majority support in the school world and the majority support in the municipal world. Only SDS councillors opposed this appointment to understand each other and then publicly praised how they had prevented the appointment of this director. And today we hear the testimony of another director who had no support from either of the PONO authorities. Last time I talked to you, you were in obstruction, about Enron. This isn't in here either, but it's a case in court, and it's 2.3 billion commissions that Enron's daughters cashed, a little bit in Italy in Austria, at our expense. It is said - I will speak this way in your vocabulary - it is said that from this money was financed by a republican campaign in America, but one part ended in those autumn elections in Slovenia. I don't know which client. There's talk of it. There's talk of it, and I can't prove it. I have to say, I can't prove it, but there's talk. There's no talk of another affair this decade or more. And Mr Janša has promised to trigger this by himself, because we are incompetent. You can see from the magnetogram as far as the arms trade is concerned, I said the last time, you have all the investigative organs, you didn't find anything, or you didn't want to. You can call an extraordinary session on this subject - but you haven't. You had an investigative commission, two-- none of it, etc. You wait for us to save you and we will. The opposition will convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject. I hope you won't, I hope you won't limit our time. I think that Mr. Juban, or Mr. Ashish, who said last time, was, "The weapon was so much money that it was to buy elections." Maybe. Let's just see who's in power at this time, there's been an illegal arms trade, we know who's with who and how he's trading, so we'll call a meeting and it'll be very interesting. Why isn't that in here? I expected it to be in here. I expected, today was enough time, there was no limit, you come out with this! Today we have come so far in this session, I do not know if I have understood Mr Sok's words in this sense that we will have concentration camps. I don't know if he thought that when they were in power. He might explain it, but he was talking about some concentration camps. And I'd like to point out one more thing, and then I'll stop. But it's completely wrong to accuse someone, by the way, who can then defend himself and explain himself only in the form of replicas. If only we could stick to what you wrote down because we could prepare because we could give the answers. But these are the charges that you're making somewhere "from below" according to what you're saying. That's in the nicest sense you can say. Clearly, even non-legitimate, if things were between us, we could also put this request in here, and I am sure that we would also get an appropriate answer. However, whatever is written here, if we have our own weight, if it has its own evidence, I hope that in this judicial and legal system of the country it will be revealed and punished. And we're not "the U.S. Jury" to walk around here and then vote who's to blame and who's not to blame. I don't agree with that. I do not agree that, in this way, in this great pre-election effort, you are throwing us at such a low level that, of course, the public also assesses in this way when it assesses the work of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u316	Thank you. Comrade Juice, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u317	Just for a little while. I'm guessing Mr. Aishovich didn't listen, he was probably sitting in his ears. So, the candidate for the Chapel elementary school had the consent of the teacher's choir at 10:8 and was elected in the world of the institution at 9:8. But as for the concentration camp, I was talking about what's on the board in Dachau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u318	Thank you. Now they get the word "proposers." That's what the president wrote to me. Dr. Bayuk first. It doesn't matter, mate Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u319	Look, Mr. Ašič, if there were 2.3 billion tolars left in the business during Mr. Turk's time, when a kilowatt hour was sold for 7 tolars per kilo hour, then what was left in a very long time when Mr. Korošec sold a kilowatt hour at the time of the LDS - but there were 20 billion left. It is said that this financed the Liberal Democracy electoral campaign, that even something went to Brežice, is said to be a campaign by Mr Ašić. That's what we heard. And it wasn't 2.3 billion, and I doubt that Republicans would have elected to power in America, but it was 20 billion. This could choose the LDS in Slovenia. That's a big sum. As far as weapons are concerned, Mr Ašič - whenever possible you can sign a request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject. Mr. Juban said it right the last time. This was about so much money that they could buy an election with it. Maybe you bought them. We're obviously not because we're not in power. So you answered that question yourself. No one was used in a legal arms store. If you did, you would have discovered it a long time ago because, as you say, the organs work well. You've set it all up, you've been investigating this for 10 years, and because the organs are working really well, if anything were wrong, you'd have found out by now. But you weren't investigating a legal arms trade. 120 tonnes of illegal weapons at the Maribor airport, with a bunch of evidence of what was going on in this regard. Containers at the Brno airport that we received, with people involved, who were then senior officials in the Liberal Democracy. With evidence that exists, with documents that exist. With documents that exist on how Members of the Liberal Democracy, sometimes mayors of Slovenian municipalities, have given weapons to the Yugoslav army rather than territorial defences, because they said they would not pay the cost of keeping these weapons, which is treason in normal countries. A lot of these topics are open. At any time, Mr Ašič, welcome back in 5 minutes, you can sign a request in our parliamentary group to convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject. The material is more or less collected, the signatures of members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are also - whenever you sign. If you sign this, you'll be the proposer and you'll be able to speak as an editorial. Otherwise you won't be able to talk again. So, [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Go ahead, Mrs. Krebs. [[...]] Let's split it up every 120 minutes. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] And we'll tell us all about it. [[...]] If you prove that this was an irregularity in the legal arms trade being carried out by the state with all the powers - you have every honor. This will also prove that for 10 years your organs, which are so ideal, were unable to detect any of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u320	My friend Azhishch has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u321	Mr. Janša, thank you for inviting me, I only reminded you that you promised to do this, I didn't offer myself. Secondly, around electricity and electricity prices we had a whole lecture here last time. This was about buying the highest quality electricity. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Kelemina's back in the game. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u322	A colleague of Auschwitz has the floor. Please, allow me to speak to Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u323	I have no idea, but I do know that apples, pears, and rotten pears and plums do not mix together, which was clearly discussed last time in this matter. I would like to mention just one more thing about social dispersion and the one about which [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u324	But that wasn't the challenge for the replica now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u325	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u326	Dr. Bayuk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u327	Thank you, Mr. President. I was waiting for Dr. Bohinc to be here. I mentioned in my presentation, I speak as a motioner! When I mentioned in my presentation that perhaps the current Minister of the Interior, Dr Bohinc, could explain something about Markovic's so-called shares, I mentioned that he was then supposed to be an official of his government, the Federal Government of the SFRJ - I forgive myself. The only thing that bothered me was that you said it was a lie, if it was, it was just a mistake. In particular, a mistake occurred when a person reads your CV, which is formally on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior, says that you became an economic minister in the federal government, in fact he was the secretary of the executive board for the economy in 1988 and then that you became president of the Slovenian Institute for Management since 1990. Here is the mistake, even in your CV I would advise you to complete this so that there will be no different interpretations in any other case. Otherwise, if that bothers you and offends you, I have no particular opinion of that government or of any other composition in which you have been, but if you really do mind, I say good-bye. Well, let's move on. I would also like to mention the words of Minister Gabra, when he warned us at the outset of course, then the matter went a little bit off track, how important it is to discuss these matters, but of course how important it is to speak calmly, so I will be very calm. I will respond very moderately to some of the things that are very disturbing in the presentations mainly by government representatives. I'll mention it, and regardless of the hour, of course you've happily voted to move on, I've already got some rest, I've gone to tea, so I'm ready for six, so there won't be a problem. Let's move on. This matter, our original presentations, which is also included in another explanation for this extraordinary meeting, are these international comparisons. We have actually focused these international comparisons, as far as we know for once, and this is not yet complete, for 2004 the book has not yet been fully published, the only thing that is known is some of the things that have been received in advance by certain institutions and have also been published in Slovenia. When we discussed the law on the promotion of the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy, I also had the opportunity to explain this to the Minister, but it seems he did not understand correctly. This analysis is based on 327 factors. Of the 327 factors it is true that some - he mentioned two or only one - for which it actually looks like they do not belong and it is right to note this. In particular, in those cases where the factor is measured in absolute figures, not relative, and that is out of the 327 that I have listed in previous analyses for previous years, there are only two or three, which are different, which are not actually included in the evaluation itself. But it doesn't matter. You know what matters? When things are compared, it is important to understand that this model applies to all countries equally, that is to say that it is measured equally and that these relative positions then persist. They are not so important, certain mistakes that can be made in this study and I have no problems, I have discovered them myself, but I have looked a little strangely, and such an institution makes such a mistake; however, those that we have warned about at the time and today are based on surveys. These surveys are based on a sample of entrepreneurs in Slovenia, Slovenians and foreigners working in Slovenia and answer these questions and assess them. This assessment is simply a basis for concern, which I am surprised that we are concerned about the opposition, but it is not a concern of our government, which, instead of doing so, actually comes here to explain and also to repeat that these are possible methodological errors or that this is a problem of Slovenian character, as Mr Minister has just quoted again here. That maybe because we're Slovenian, it seems, a little more self-critical, but the Czechs like to brag. I don't know, I don't understand myself so much in the Czech Republic, so I don't know, but I know that some people in Slovenia like to brag because we hear stories of success a little too much. Well, I don't know if that's true. But since I'm not a psychologist or a sociologist and neither are you, Mr. Minister, I hope you're not going to fuck this up. So, whether this is a problem of the psychology of Slovenia or of the Slovenians involved in this debate, or whether the Czechs are willing to lie a little differently, this is just your assessment that you have just told us here. But the problem is that, no matter what you say, what the government says, whether the Prime Minister is upset or not, or whether it goes to entrepreneurs to blow up, let them say a little better the second time that they will not make such a methodological error; the fact is that in these key things, which are the basis and source of corruption and customerism, Slovenia is the last place. And this is internal information trading, and this is a lack of control over the administration. And we're out there somewhere. Of course, if the only thing we achieve is that they come and send ministers here to -- not to us -- try to tell everyone that it's just a mistake, some kind of psychological problem - yes, let it be! But I would only expect that once in Slovenia, and above all this government will sober up and try to understand, what if something is wrong. And it's obviously wrong! In the specific cases he mentioned in his presentation - I have heard many answers. Those problems that I mentioned, I haven't heard a word of it. Not a word about the General Navigation, not a word about the Bank of Koper, not a word about the violation of the takeover law, which has been clearly and publicly reported. Nothing about that. Why nothing? Yeah, because it's so interesting. That you woke up. Did Mr. Azhitch wake up? Yeah, all right. [[...]] Not a word. And what was that? This was an insider trading. Clear trading inside information! Some knew what was going to happen, so they bought it, then sold it, of course, later, just so that the tax would not have to be paid; and this happened. This is what we all know has happened in Slovenia. There's nothing about that. Of course, all government representatives and positions repeat, because they have nothing, because they have nothing, there is no argument, there is nothing, there is nothing. This is repeated, the press hears, and tomorrow or the day after, they will write: “It was nothing, because nothing was said at all. But if someone shows a document, then it's mud, then it's a personal attack or something - how did I hear? Shame on this house. Well, very nice. So the fact is, this basis is still valid, but it is true that some objective data for 2004 are wrong. For example, with what Mr Minister has praised - and I think it is right to commend - that what the economic indicators show is positive, but I would just like to mention that there is a mistake that Mr Minister has not already found and that foreign investment in 2004 has been subject to foreign investment since 2002, when privatisation, when we have partly privatized the New Ljubljana Bank, and when there was obviously a much larger amount of foreign investment than it is now. In fact, data for last year show that this was only one quarter of the year 2002. And when that information comes in a day, it will be improved, and this image with which you boast will be slightly different. Well, then you ask yourself, tell us that we have no argument that this is a flat rate. The only flat-rate thing I have in my hand, which I've already talked about at the previous session, and it's going to have to be repeated, because obviously no one's gonna get caught. On Ultra, I have asked Mr President of the Government a question on the basis of the right I have under the rules of procedure. I asked him a question, and I got the answer. I marked the answer as "shampariya", and then proved once again that it was "shampariya". And the government hasn't responded to that today. I expected that Mr. Government Representative, one of the ministers here, instead of telling us about the methodological problems in the Swiss foundations, would tell us that they would at least answer us and explain the difference between this difference in the formal document presented by the government and accepted by the government at the meeting. And that's very simple. You write in the reply text about the 106 million that this company will receive in the subsidies. But there's only 86.7 in the tables. It's some kind of apparent discrepancy that we still can't understand today. On the question of whether or not this company received a loan, we were asked to receive 150 million loans in 1999. When we go to check these balance sheets published in AIPES, we find that in 1999 this company had not 150 million but 1000 million assets of a long-term loan, at least so on the balance sheet. At the same time, they also have a 1000 million investment. This investment is not in 1998 and then is not on the balance sheet in 2000 - so it was not long-term. Aren't these legitimate questions? If the Prime Minister signs on a piece of paper and tells the National Assembly or at least one Member, it is in fact now a public matter that this company has received 150 million. Then the company says it had 1,000; they say it was long-term, but in one year it disappeared - should we not then ask? No! No! You'd rather tell us about these and other methodological errors. The second thing that bothers me is that I've already spoken here, and on the basis of the company's balance sheets, I said I wouldn't brag. If I were Minister of Economy, Dr. Lahovnik, I would not boast that this company is one of the most advanced and highly creative companies in Slovenia. It's simple, you know why not? Since they paid 76 million taxes on profits in eight years, they actually won in four years - that is to say, in the middle of this period - 107 subsidies. If the Slovenians are actually going to build our economic future on companies that are going to pay much less taxes than they are getting subsidies, if this is supposed to be the criterion, then I don't think we're doing very well. However, let it be as it is, the facts are as they are: Slovenia has great problems with internal information - these are the assessments of our own entrepreneurs and not the first year, this is not the first time. For one thing, that we are last, but that we are very complicated in such events, is the assessment of the people who know the most about these matters, and these are entrepreneurs themselves. Having control problems is not the first time such an assessment. Now we're in the last place, but before that, it was a bad thing. But it's only now relativizing. And we're going to have to say again: why are you relativizing this year? This year is being relativised because we fell and went back in these assessments and international comparisons. But when this thing went on, the government used the same data in a positive way. And I think they were right when they were used in a positive way, not now that they're trying to shove their heads back into the sand. I have read, I will not kill you again, but on page 41 of the economic development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which the government has been preparing over two years and mobilising experts, Slovenian and foreign, and is a very good document, in that part it actually writes and uses this data. Of course in a different way. At that time Slovenia progressed and came from the 40th place to the 35th place. And of course they boasted about it, and it's right that they boasted, but they boasted very soberly because they said, although we made progress, 35. Well, now we're at 45, and now there's no real, research law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the basis for corruption, the source of corruption is here and this analysis clearly shows it. Let them move on, the fact is here, and the consequences are clear. But I'd like to end by thanking Mr. Wolf. Mr Wolf, on behalf of Liberal Democracy, actually said the most important thing tonight, he said when he stood there on behalf of Liberal Democracy and told us that we had pulled old documents from the old closets, the documents questioned. Here, Mr. Wolf, thank you very much. We will not and will never agree that this question will remain, and precisely because you yourself have admitted that it is questionable, we have opened this matter again because we will never accept that you will preach here to us how all organs work well and at the same time admit that it is questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u328	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u329	Respectable present. You have assigned us the label to the motioners, especially my colleague, Ašič of Liberal Democracy, to find out who is to blame, who is not to blame. In my opinion, of course, your implementation of the misunderstanding, the misunderstanding of today's extraordinary session. It is not the intention of the proposers, at least the members of the Slovenian National Party, to determine who is to blame, who is not to blame. This is a message that the National Assembly will send to the Republic of Slovenia today, and it is a message that the National Assembly will forward to the judicial, executive, supervisory authorities in our country. Unfortunately, it has always proved that only the opposition or only the Slovenian National Party, however you wish, cannot produce this message in a qualitative way. As evidence of this, allow me, only in April did the National Assembly meet with the opposition's proposal to discuss tax irregularities - you refused. In April, on a proposal from the opposition, the same National Assembly met with a proposal to discuss the irregularities that are taking place within the framework of the Krška nuclear power plant. In May around Zbiljski Gaj - you also did not want to place on the agenda. About irregularities around the Court of Auditors - also in May. In the following attempt to bribe an MP in March - you did not want to. During the same month, in the opposition, we wanted to include the issue of bankruptcy senators and bankruptcy administrators - you also opposed the above-mentioned topic. In the same month, so March, you also opposed the consideration of the proposal on the issue of Slovenian funds - a specific example, the fund of craftsmen. Also in March, in the framework of the ruling parties, you opposed the debate on health reform issues and wage policy. Hereafter - on the issue of the judiciary, which we have discussed several times today; on the dismissal of workers; on the evaluation in public institutions; on the issue of fiscal policy and, finally, this year, on the subject of ownership or ownership irregularities. I want to tell you that despite the opposition's wishes, the National Party, any party that consists of it, you have not allowed yourself to deal with the least of the affairs or irregularities. And that's the answer to why today's extraordinary session is. Because at least within the framework of the National Party, we want to give a message because we believed in your wisdom that you would agree to this message so that the National Assembly would forward it to all those institutions, that one day it must be the end of all these matters. But unfortunately, you've taken the whole thing too aggressively after my assessment. You have seen or appreciated that the meeting is directed against you. That's not true! It is directed against those individuals whom we have warned or even proved today. And the purpose of today's debate - once again, and I absolutely believe or believe that there will be no need - is to point out that the National Assembly would act wisely and all those institutions in our country that are set up to do so at some declaration level, to warn that they have support in the legislative branch of government. Not only in the opposition of the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u330	Director Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u331	Thank you. Within the framework of its powers, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has detected and addressed the problem of trade in internal information, or abuse of internal information, as Dr. Bajuk pointed out. In the amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia, which was published in the Official Journal of 20.4.2004, which means that these amendments were also adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 30 of the Article 243 of the Criminal Law, which deals comprehensively with the issue of the abuse of internal information and criminalizes all the phenomena that we have detected on the basis of certain cases and the examination of these cases and have therefore resolved them at the legislative level. Of course, it is a matter of continuing the practice of the judicial authorities to implement these provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u332	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In an emergency situation, we are discussing a classic topic and a key topic and an extremely important topic, and by creating a state of emergency, Mr President, we are making a disgrace, humiliating this national assembly and embarrassing this country. However, you chose this path, consciously choosing to humiliate the opposition, to humiliate our citizens so that they cannot and must not watch and monitor it, because we all know that we have to work tomorrow. Look, I'd like to point out to the Slovenian river: Whoever else eats the spear, it falls. I think it'll come true someday, because as consciously digging a pit as you do here, it's too much. And what's the attitude to this topic, corruption, customerism, money laundering and all that. The last time we discussed this subject in the Internal Policy Committee for 10 hours at the previous meeting, you were full of how this topic was needed in the investigative commissions. All of a sudden, you were all in charge of the investigative commissions, even though you knowingly maligned the investigative commissions during the two mandates. You did the same thing the next day, when the commission of inquiry on electricity fraud was on the agenda. 14 billion hard things you've done, you've hit it like a roller. You took other conclusions and made fun of an investigative committee that worked very closely. Your representatives in the investigative commissions didn't have the words against the conclusions, they couldn't because they knew it was all true. And yet, within the framework of this point, these themes have fallen into some shocking labels, absurd references to this topic, about corruption in the National Assembly. Mr Potts spoke of the opposition's rejection. Mr Anderlič said that there was a lack of compliance with the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy and that the position continued to have the right to exercise an official function, and obviously corruption. But look, corruption is not a legitimate and legal function of power. It's an abuse of the area. And I would recommend to Mr Ptræ that you once again read an interview with Mr Lukšić, the ideologist of his party since you and the President had hoped that they could democratise this party, his. And look, here Mr Luksic is talking about the rejected behaviour of this party. He talks about the floods left over, about conservativeism, the dogmaticism of this party and this authority, and he also talks about the fact that this ruling suit has lost its sensitivity to what people really feel. And a bunch of good sociological, political analysis is in here. You don't want to say I used some kind of ultra-duper. This is an ideologist, formerly, because I know you threw him out of your party. Nor is it true that you placed in public after the previous meeting on corruption, that this does not belong to Parliament. Corruption is a key topic and a key debate in each European Parliament, especially in pre-election years. Even in the most orderly countries, if there is no corruption, they literally invent it. We don't have to make it up. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Because what's here in all 14 cases is just the tip of the iceberg. [[...]] We know how the ice mountain behaves, and in fact it's just the tip of the iceberg. You didn't bring any of these parties to court. You made fun of the press who discovered something. And that's why the press, some even seem to have bought this thesis that this is not part of Parliament, is under intense pressure. I know that journalists are under a lot of pressure from some editors and capital owners. For example, the Journal didn't dare write a word about that 10 hours-long internal policy session, even though you say it's the right place, committees, committees. You threaten the press and you will threaten, given these shocking statements. One such was the statement of Minister Gantar. He thus stated: 'I know that in the future the design of a system that will prevent irregularities can lead to totalitarian regime'. Speaking of corruption, Minister Gantar suddenly sees the opposition as a threat to bring the totalitarian regime into the country. Yes, listen, to get rid of such absurd thesis, I find it very strange, and then it turns out that in the end he was saying that he was against the appointment of political people to the supervisory councils and administrations, but yet he was the one who suggested them at Telekom and Mobil. Is it "the last warning in the government" that he was forced to do such things? I don't know why you're being such a scoundrel. That clientism and corruption are a serious problem in this country, I will not cite cases or statements by someone from the opposition, but I will mention something that I read in an article that was published by the former Vice-President of Liberal Democracy under the title "Oj Tone, Uj". The former Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy says that the members of the Supervisory Board of Petrol and the Administration and the Ljubljanska Bank have been decided by the Secretary-General of the Liberal Democracy that, of course, he should not have run, because he was not after the year and some narrowly solid core of the party. Look, clientism appears under your authority in many ways over the years. It has already been mentioned that due to clientism he took the holding of Slovenian power plants from Maribor to Ljubljana. Now due to clientism and mediation of some who sit here and in these lobbyes of the financial oligarchy, the establishment of a financial pillar around the New Credit Bank Maribor was prevented. On the contrary, he wants to pull out the insurance company Maribor and bring the management, administration and management to Ljubljana, although this is the formation of such a pillar of All-Slovenian at the time of his appointment promised by Minister Rop. It is said that even sometimes, even in some cases, this lobby, this oligarchy, this clientism also controls the Prime Minister to deny him in such a way. I am sure that or we have information that Mr President, I have the right to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u334	My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u335	I know he's one of the leading liberals, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u336	Please, Comrade Jakič, you know that you do not have a word and do what your colleague Jerovšek does many times, so that you fall into the word of a speaker. Only colleague Jerovšek now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u337	In recent times, the Minister of Justice has been complaining that she has withdrawn from her candidacy as Attorney General, Mrs Gyürköseva. But we do have information that she was advised to do so and was forced to do so. So it was the same with Mr Penk a long time ago, for he had embarked on the path of transparency, justice, transparency and also the detection of corruption. And now crocodiles are crying, but if this was sent to be really the right person, who will be able to ensure in the long term that the prosecution will continue to act as it has done in the past. Not so misleading the Slovenian public, with such unrealistic claims. And there is a similar attitude toward these matters in the local National Assembly. As soon as we requested on the Committee on the Economy some data on copyrights, on intellectual services payments related to awards in Elan and on awards, where we read in a report that the prize for the Maribor vehicle factory was in addition to 17,000 marks paid for one year for asset management, when it was further known that the loss, a million 200 thousand, would still be mark, or 600 thousand euros. And when such a report and such reports were to come on the agenda, the Sub-Committee for Owners blinked. Mr. Kavčič never called him back. He didn't call him back, it's been a year, etc. And that's the policy, the conscious policy of your party. When you come to a trace of customerism, corruption in the official document, the chairman of the committee doesn't want to see him, and he doesn't call any more things. And look, if a man went, if he had time, he'd go after these cases. The Red Cross has been mentioned several times, performing here under number one. It is known that the person who has collected these loans and transferred them to the right place is, of course, a prominent member of the so-called Liberal Academy and is financed from this and is also a member of the "Rolling on the Stage" so that this circle can be carried on. And in the case of Friday, I think that I can now say that, as part of our investigative, supervisory commission, very soon in this matter, we saw that all the evidence, as it is practical now, has been selected from those documents by both contractors and perpetrators at that time. That's when. In the meantime, he is part of the prosecution's office, and part of these repressive authorities acted in the opposite direction. It is quite clear here that on Friday, due to his writing about corruption and clientism, an appeal or command from very high political cities has come that the most influential people in Slovenia may have become for these contracting authorities and that everything will be done to ensure that the right contracting authorities will never come on the plan. But what has been done so far could have been done much earlier. And if it weren't for the Zammer's commission, there wouldn't be a stone or a mosaic. And I must also respond to Mr Bohinc's remarks that the police are always working towards everyone in the same way that they do not allow themselves to be influenced. I know at least one case, even through our commission, that's what needs to be said. In the case of Bus in Maribor, the CSI had a completely settled case. However, Mr Bohinc, it was for your client's officials to finance a customer in bus purchases. And that's where the police got orders to stop her from investigating and never came forward. Never. And it's not true that the police won't let it affect you. Unfortunately, it has to be because police officers and criminals are normal people who are aware that they will be removed otherwise at work, that they will have consequences such as, say, many opposition representatives who point to some things. Unfortunately, in this country, the concern for transparency is not rewarded. In this country, this is punishable for the time being. I think that the last human resources solutions in the government also show that such trends will be in fashion for quite some time and will prevail. However, I think that you will be at least so correct that you will no longer be spreading this problem that the debate on corruption does not belong to Parliament, that it does not belong to the European Parliament. It may not be part of the Arab parliaments, but it has always been part of the European parliaments. Where there is no such thing, Mr. Gantar, there is totalitarianism. When you mentioned that this would lead to totalitarianism I wrote down your statements and quoted them. [[...]] Maybe we're actually in this kind of power, with such pressure on journalists, with such silence of facts close to the totalitarian regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u338	A colleague of mags. A petty man has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u339	Thank you so much for saying that. It's about the Red Cross. Of course, the reputation was falling, not because we were discussing it, but because of all the unhappiness that was taking place. Look, the Foundation has provided funds based on false data. And these funds have not yet been recovered, even though they have been completely unjustifiably allocated. Then, as regards the funds, the emoluments for the Director-General or the Secretary-General. Nothing's come back. Speaking of Mr. Senica. He got the money from the humanitarian organization. I don't know, he got the money for not knowing what things. He owns the Porsche for millions. At the time it was the only car in Slovenia. In short, a man of extraordinary prestige gets money from the Red Cross. Who gave the money back? How's Mr. Kirn and his loans? Did the money come back? He's not here. There are still 109 million or 110 million claims that have not been paid. The Humanitarian Organizations Act. We have tried to resolve this matter. It has been a pure effort, including on my part, to make the Humanitarian Organizations Act so as not to allow such speculation, to prevent economic investment or profitable investment and to devote money collected from humanitarian organisations alone and only to humanitarian affairs. With regard to directors' earnings, restrictions on retirement, because they are not organisations that appear on the market and should be making money. Their acquisition is one thing and the provision of another. Return money when you mention BTC and Geoplin. This was intentional, that is, how to dispose of social or state property. These are not questionable cases, these are still current cases. If you want to question them and make them wise, this is your problem, colleagues from the ruling coalition, but these are living cases that can be solved. Mr Lahovnik, helping wealthy companies where there are good investments, forgive me, this is not the task of the state to give money to those who do it well. But let him put in infrastructure or similar things or agencies that serve all companies. Who gets the money out of this? Good or bad? Go ahead and laugh, yeah. Nobody's direct because it's a violation of the market order. If you were trying to give for these purposes, as I said, then you wouldn't have any trouble with that. As you have now called for tourist destinations and identified the four richest centres, you have already eliminated the rest in advance. Is this in terms of ensuring equitable development? No, it's not. Notaries. Let me tell you about the notaries. That provision shall be valid, which shall be in Article 7. Why? Because the notary record works in favour of the lender. This is because it represents the enforcement address for the recovery of the obligation, not the borrower. This is no protection for the borrower. However, if you think that informing the borrower is a key task, I will tell you that the notaries will give a circular letter and will comply with this provision. And with this cyclical letter, they'll go to the lawyer and pay for extra services. That's it. There are a lot of other cases that I won't mention because it's involvement. But I don't want to take my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u341	Thank you very much. At this hour, I rarely discuss. I just want to touch two things. The first time I listened to ministers' speeches and arguments or responses to some of the findings of the proposed extraordinary meeting, I noted in particular the following statements that the judicial institutions are working and that the supervisory institutions are working well. However, I am of the opinion that one of the exploits of such an extraordinary meeting could also be the one to find out, after careful consideration, that the time has actually come for a new solution to take place in this area as well. I would suggest that we think together about Slovenia setting up a specialised financial police to combine the competences of all those institutions that are now engaged in the detection, prevention and prosecution of such crime in Slovenia. It seems to me that such an institution would be able to combine the knowledge and will of people who are capable of persecuting such crimes, which are mainly due to the abuse of power and power. We can see that we have a number of good laws, but unfortunately the existing institutions do not fully know how to implement them, which is why changes are needed. Perhaps thinking in this direction is one of the solutions. I present to you a document issued a few years ago by the Department of Internal Affairs, the Office of Public Security, on the subject of corruption. Very good material, which is still very topical for the Slovenian situation, let me summarize a possible solution. This text also raises the issue of a strategy to prevent corruption. What can we do? Here's a proposal from one of the famous professors, and it was published in the magazine Unesca. It proposes the following political lesson, as it says, which could be the result of a successful campaign to curb corruption. But he's got four steps. Step one. First, he catches the big fish. Leaders involved in corruption must be publicly appointed and punished. Even before part of the cynical public said that anti-corruption efforts were just an empty phrase, or perhaps just a campaign against a political opponent. Therefore, it is very important that the first large fish comes from a party in power. That's the first step. Step two. Start reforming the administration in a positive way and help public officials. Special attention shall be given to working with officials and to identifying organisational criteria and ways in which you will measure success and then link part of their award to the results achieved. Step three. When you catch some big fish, step away from investigating the past and focus on prevention. We haven't talked about this much today, so we're talking about prevention. At this point, a systematic analysis of structural changes is worth carrying out. At this stage, the government can also consider establishing a specific anti-corruption institution, whose role should not only be to investigate corruption, but also to work with the Offices on systematic reforms in social policies and procedures with a view to limiting the opportunity for corruption. And step four. Have a strategy. Having a strategy means creating clear objectives and means in the short, medium and long term. And then there's the ending. The government that sets itself up to fight corruption needs success in the first six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u342	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. My colleague Zupan now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u343	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In my contribution, I would like to limit myself to the operations of some HCSs that have collapsed and their savers have lost everything or part of their hard-earned revenues. In doing so, I mean the Slovenian Savings and Loan Office from Kranj, the HKS Soča and HKS Sicuro, in which it is not possible to get rid of the impression that there are connections between the three. Sicura was also one of the creditors in the bankruptcy process of the Cranium Savings House. Even the founders were the same with HKS Soča and Sicuri. All names are closely related to Vladimir Slejk, former February LDS from Postojna and his companies Optimizem d.o.o. During his cooperation with Slejk, Andrej Sever established always new companies, which were mainly involved in money transactions. In addition to the HKS Sicure, he founded six other exchange offices in Primorske, the exchange office in Ljubljana, the Medalion Association, the Gebi Zastavanica, Sicuro Invest, Lerono, Sikato Invest Sicuro Invest Trust and Zadrugo S, which was also the founder of HKS Sicure and had the same owners and at the same time the same savers. The business was unusual: a mixture of pawnage, exchange, stock exchange and food-borrowing. And those who knew little about this area could not be surprised that such a business was permitted at all. The police were supposed to know about Sicura's crimes back in 2001, and the police were supposed to have a warrant for the investigation at the time, but they were stopped. According to official allegations, the first indictment was to come from the Bank of Slovenia to the Prosecutor's Office in November 2002, but it is known that the first complaint was made by a person from Postojna in September. The question is whether the police were involved and whether the prosecution acted on the first complaint. Although Banka Slovenije issued a series of control measures against HKS Sicuri in 2002 for failure to comply with the prudential rules. That is why the HKS Assembly then adopted a decision on voluntary liquidation as a way to abandon banking activities. The Bank of Slovenia first adopted a decision on compulsory liquidation, and at the end of 2002 it introduced a bankruptcy procedure. But it is only right that we look at this from a broader perspective. As such, HKS have a more than 100-year tradition, as they have been set up by farmers, such as savings and farm solidarity. Modern HKS farmers are more than 30 years old. In 1971, 40 agricultural cooperatives and 9 agricultural combinations formed the association of HKS Slovenia, in which 61 HKS from agriculture and forestry were linked. There was practically no farm with us that did not have at least one HKS feeding book. Many farmers equipped their farms with agricultural machinery and the construction of barns with loans from HKS farmers. In addition, some craftsmen and workers who were not associated with the HKS also acted, and these were very suspicious. Although the HKS operated under the old law of the former state, their owners were responsible for their business, which also guaranteed nutritional roles with their assets. For them, the 1991 law in banks and savings banks did not explicitly prescribe the creation of guarantee capital and the Bank of Slovenia did not control them. Indeed, the fact that there was no supervision by the relevant institutions and that new HCSs were being established outside the agricultural system and that, therefore, the exposure of savers and investment and their security to the credibility of the committees were very high shows that they were not disturbed by those who should. Although the association of HKS Slovenia was aware of the traps that survived the operation of HKS, in 1990 a Slovenian cooperative agricultural bank was established to bring under the roof all HKS farmers and thus ensure the safety of their operations. But that didn't happen. The Bank, established from agricultural resources, had different interests. In 1994, the Slovenian Cooperative Agricultural Bank, together with Gantar Stock Exchange House PMA and 70 natural persons, founded a farm company that collected certificates especially among the rural population and then grew into one of the largest financial empires in the KD Group. In the country currently manages 140 billion tolars of capital and 30 individuals from the KD Group are on the 100s largest shareholders in Slovenia, seven of which have more than a billion tolar shares. The first among them, known as the heathen baron, is Mr Gantar. If, at that time, the HKS farmers were to be located in the so-called Slovenian Cooperative Agricultural Bank, some other HKS should be located under the roof of other banks and the matter would be closed in some way. Thus, nothing happened and more than 30 HKS as independent legal entities only obtained control of Banka Slovenije in 1999 and the requirement to apply all the criteria, both from capital adequacy, time consistency, sources of investment and the like. The truth is that when the Bank of Slovenia passed the Banking Act, it is necessary to say that it was necessary to require HKS to adapt to the law during a one-year transitional period. However, trade and cooperative lobbying exerted very strong pressure in the debate and reached a five-year transitional period that ended in February this year. Today, we can argue that the problems with HKS are also a five-year transitional period, although it is also true that it was virtually impossible for HKS to meet all the legal requirements in one year, among which the biggest problem was primarily recapitalisation. Only two or three HKS will survive on their own, thus closing the cycle after 14 years and shorting out the farmers themselves. A huge amount of resources have been wasted in agriculture and society for unnecessary adjustments. Many farmers lost confidence, and the situation led some farmers so far, especially in Prekmurje, that they were in debt to Orion, where they were charged with abrasive interest and were paid at the expense of their assets because of their inability to pay. In all of this, we cannot go beyond the responsibilities of state authorities and institutions, as well as the executive and legislative authorities, which have not adopted rules and implementing acts to put in place effective controls, until 1999. The HKS issue in the cooperative system will be resolved in some way. Other HKS are in bankruptcy or liquidation. The question is whether farmers, now in the European Union, will receive funds for their investments at a competitive price in the bank. Among the major shareholders of the cooperative bank are also Gantarev KD Holding and, by the way, Mr Knezevic, President of the Bank, is also Chairman of the KD Group Supervisory Board. For shares obtained by farmers for certificates in a former Gantar farm company, they can only buy a bicycle for the tractor. On the other hand, we can talk about a rich baron, the largest of 2.4 billion tolars on the Slovenian shareholders scale. It is clear that such wealth did not come about only on the basis of good governance, but by exploiting the situation, connections, science and the time of Slovenian ownership, which so richly ended only for some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u344	I will now give my word to my colleague Kremjar, Petan, and then to my colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u345	Thank you very much, President. One wonders about the usefulness of this performance, however. There are some things that need to be said, regardless of the late hour or the early hour, and regardless of the fact that the debate from one serious debate has turned into reading free writings, who has done something to someone and who has not. But as you can tell, there are some things that need to be said. Nobody [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u346	Whoever has a word has the right to be free from interference with its implementation. Please, Comrade Kremjar is the only one with a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u347	Thank you. I think, President, that you should act and not ask so much, but it's just your style. That corruption is not with us, no one has ever spoken in this national council. I will not say what Mr Penko has said very precisely and very clearly about corruption in all countries. In some who admit it, they don't recognize it in others. We certainly belong to countries that are aware that corruption is that it has been and that it will be in all countries and that development will bring about that less, at least as much as possible, that it is the duty of the State to provide certain things: the functioning of the system of institutions that are involved in this system and the legislation that leads to this goal, that is no corruption or at least what is possible. That Slovenia has set up institutions, as we have heard comparatively with European countries, that it has made legislation comparable to European countries. These are the facts. That things don't work fantastically and perfectly, it's also a fact. And here we can put a dot and a dot and say, "That's right. And we talk about it all the time. And we want to, and I want to talk about why. We're only talking about other things, not that. Why we only talk about journalists, what someone writes, why they don't write, how they write. If you analyze some of the debates that were held today and yesterday in this National Assembly, virtually no one has debated without rounding up the press. Now let me, as my colleague Jerovšek, take a little psychoanalysis. Because it's the most important thing in your performances, that it's in public, that it's said to be written. And it is less important that matters be resolved that the system works to establish such a system. And here's the basic problem. And the second basic problem is that the National Assembly is not a place for this, forgive me, my fellow respects, you want this all the time to be a substitute for the prosecution, for the police, for the court's exchange. This isn't a national convention. If anyone thinks that, then he doesn't know what the National Assembly is supposed to do. I'm sorry to have to say this. That's the way it is, Comrade Janša, whether you agree or not. That's right. And what exactly are you trying to accomplish? You want to make sure the state doesn't act like it's a state of emergency. You've been forcing us to talk about some state of emergency all the time, because an emergency brings us into extraordinary action. And that is the purpose of these discussions, and therefore I think they are completely mistaken. And if we analyze it a little bit. A few months ago, remember when the opposition acted constructively, on what question. These are mainly questions from the deleted ones you have led to where you have led them to continue corruption, and look at the questions you are asking the Prime Minister and the ministers, all of them leading in this direction. And that's why it's not a constructive job. I regard it as a poor work of the opposition and therefore I think that such meetings are unnecessary and are not aimed at a rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u348	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u349	I think I have heard on the government's side for the 10th time how unnecessary this meeting is and how those we have proposed speak things that do not. And this allegation is a little illogical. If you were really telling me all this nonsense, then for the first time, you'd be interested in us talking as much as possible. And secondly, we would be interested to hear as many people as possible. But you've done a lot to make time as little as possible to discuss and you've done everything you can to meet at night, to make as few people as possible hear it. Obviously, we don't talk that stupid. And if it were true what you're saying, then you'd completely give up the debate, leave us all the time to tell me more nonsense and you'd get more political capital. Be logical in these claims, or you'll ruin your own argument. However, I think it is precisely this fact that we have for the first time, as far as I know, since this national assembly exists in a single country, a meeting that takes place at four o'clock in the morning to discuss corruption at a meeting that began the previous day and will be concluded the next day in the morning. Just this fact, sorry, which will also come to the European public, will probably not convince anyone that this matter is not serious. And you probably won't convince anyone that the opposition forced the night meeting. The opposition has proposed, colleague Rokavec suggested that it should be suspended at one time and continue the following day. You voted against it. Thus, according to the will of the government coalition, the national parliament of a country that is a member of the European Union has been discussing corruption all night. And you say there's no problem. Why are we talking all night then? Why we don't have a normal session. Apparently, the problem is very serious. The one in Europe who only knows these surface, framework data will give the impression that corruption is a very big problem in Slovenia. Because if I hadn't, the government coalition wouldn't be pushing for this to be discussed all night. So much for this, comrade Kremjar, what makes sense and what doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u350	Comrade Petan. Comrade Kremjar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u351	I just didn't say it that way, but even less thought, Comrade Janša. Every statement you make, every thought you make. That's legitimate, but it's not nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u352	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We have prepared some good conclusions and they should urgently be adopted. If ever, then we could say that where there is will, there is a way. But if there is no will, and there seems to be no will, then there is no path, even no direction. Maybe some kind of chaotic. And then there's a million excuses or two for a spare. Like the ones we listened to today. We thought it was different, not exactly like that. Maybe they misinterpreted us abroad, and they just did an analysis like that. We were looking at the matter a little differently. That's the wrong interpretation. Maybe the method was wrong. They didn't use the right method. We use another. We have done our research with the independent status of the institution. According to our data, this is quite different. Our method is different and perhaps by our methods foreign investments are also harmful to the domestic economy. We're quite ready. Because we know this method, we know that it's not the worst, but then you ask yourself, respectable, what's the trend, what do you like to use, we call this a vector or something in mathematics. And here we know that trend has direction and speed. Therefore, it does not hold up the argument, since at this point there is still something wrong. Let us ask ourselves after the trend ins how fast this trend is: either downwards or upwards. We would like to go up, but it often happens down, so it's very important what this rate of change is. If we put it together a little bit, it's a pretty complicated thing not to say what's bad. We've heard many times, yes, because we've made progress. That's what you're saying. This can't be serious. That's true, but if we looked a little bit around, we'd figure out that maybe others were moving faster, maybe twice, maybe three times faster. At this point, I don't know, Latvia is the one who has three times faster development than we do, especially if we look at it in the long run, it doesn't even seem as funny to me. You know, it seems to me like we should water the crops and instead of giving the right amount of water, we only give it one half and then the crop will only be half. And we'll say, yes, because the crop is still pretty good. What about the rest when it could be bigger and when more money could also flow into the state treasury when we are already dealing with such matters? There could be more money running into the state cash register. Maybe one concrete example of the long-term trend and speed. In 1918 we were on average in Austria-Hungarian, then Austria and, of course, Italy. Today they're twice our size. Apparently they had a upward trend, and it was essential, but the velocity was about twice, then twice. Now we can ask ourselves what trend we are going to have to have now in order to have these countries with which we were on the same level at that time a long time ago in order to catch up with them. I hope we can catch up with them. I hope we do it as soon as possible. Making progress isn't exactly the best sign yet, it's a good sign, but it's also important to ask for the rest of what I've just explained. And the fact is, and we have seen this a number of times today that corruption is automatically blocking development, impeding it and stifling it. And Mr. Minister, you've put forward one topic of denationalisation today. Maybe that's a good thing. You said that this would choke the soul and that it would stifle development in the future, and that this matter was valued, I don't know, for ten billion, and then you added something to it. Look, we should also ask ourselves the reasons for this denationalisation. The main cause was nationalisation. It is likely that this nationalisation also stifled development at that time and may still be suffocating today. Probably because we're dealing with these consequences. But that's not the worst part. If this case is valued at 10 and good, even if it is 20 billion, or even if it is 50 billion, and if it is 100 billion, it is still a real change compared to deleted. There we can talk if this thing goes through, hundreds of billions. Thus, there would be mild will, and we should be delighted to adopt a law where hundreds of billions of people would talk about it. But here's the problem of 10 billion. Mr Minister, I think it would be good if colleagues who so advocate for these deleted ones were told, too, that those billions would also stifle development in the future. You didn't talk about eraseds, I agree, but it's a series of sizes. That's what I was gonna say. And it would be good if my fellow Members and colleagues warned that this would also stifle development for a long, long time. It's like the soul development of other things. Allow me, on occasion, to show you won't tell me that I'm saying some dry-cleaning things. The case of SIB. Much has already been said, and it is likely that there will be, especially if the authorities responsible are able to do what is necessary. Look, this SIB, which's worth, at least what's been arranged over everything, was worth about 3 billion. This is a typical example of clientelism, corruption, deception, document counterfeiting and the like. It's worth 3 billion. And look, 14 days ago, we discussed the law on higher education in this area. And there we found that, despite all that one amendment had been adopted, a fifth year would be necessary, which would be a condition for achieving a second level of education, participation or part of the funding or self-financing of a student or parent, however you wish, and one annual study would cost about a million. Doesn't matter if it's a little more or a little less. I think that this information given by the minister is quite real. And now look, just this SIB, what was unnecessary, means that 3,000 students could pay for the fifth year. That's the SIB. It's a completely unnecessary thing, but she took that kind of money. This is one comparison to explain what it means. Look, it's not long before we've discussed the student and apprentice nutrition laws. And then we said it would cost nine billion. I guess we all agree. And we found out, at least on this side of the lady and gentlemen, that we don't have 9 billion because we don't have them because they're not in the budget, and I don't know what they're all about. But it would cost 9 billion for one year, for all the high school kids. We don't have them. But we'd have hundreds of billion for wiped out, which means 50, 60, 70, 80 years of funding for lunches for high school. That's one more comparison. I'm not done yet. Next. I mentioned earlier that it would probably be necessary to co-finance this famous 5-year-old in order to achieve a second level of education that would cost one million. And I'm going back to the wiped-outs that will be hundreds of billions. That's what they say. Hundreds of thousands of students could afford a fifth year. Now put it anywhere you want, either in corruption or in anything else. I've only given you a comparison, and you have the power to evaluate the matter. That is also the way to view the problem. This one, too. I'm not saying that it's the only view, the only star like, it can be any other, I'll take it, but I'm also looking at it from this angle. That's the way we can look at it. Next. We were able to hear that the Consumer Credit Act was passed in 2000, under the so-called Bajuk government or the government of Dr. Bajuk, and that this enabled Orion and similar matters. So, of course, nothing's happening now. Now I'm gonna ask. Sir, when was the penal code passed that there was no solution to the Friday case? When was the law on criminal proceedings passed so that this case would not move anywhere? When was the Law on Courts passed? When's the D.A.'s bill? When is the law on judicial service so that this Friday case doesn't move anywhere? That's not the problem with when the loan law was passed, but something else is so I'm gonna get back to the beginning. Where there is will, there is a way. But we obviously don't have the will to find the right way. That's why we wander, maybe we're on a dead end or we're lost, we're in some kind of chaotic state. That's possible, too. And, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to hear yesterday that the ruling majority or the ruling do not close their eyes to corruption. That's well said, we agree. But there's another way to put it. Or it means that with your eyes open, you watch what's going on, and nothing is a service. Take this more than a joke, but in every joke, we know there's a lot of truth. This is because the files are placed in closets and then, by strange coincidence, the power source finds them when it opens that closet and falls on hundreds of files. They may already be dusted or not, if the cabinet is tight. Even something else happens. Forget about writing the indictment. And then the deadline runs out, and there's nothing out of it. Even more, the law can change, but it's a matter of age because of the law. Marriage can be one or the other. We can put everything on our heads with the law. But laws are not passed by minorities, they do not accept the opposition, but laws are passed by those who have the majority. It is true that in many cases we have resolved government laws in opposition. A hundred percent when it came to European affairs, we have always supported and many other laws, when it came to state administration, I can claim with full responsibility that if the opposition did not support those five famous laws on public administration, it would probably not go through. It is also true that many people ask themselves whether there is a point in supporting you, for then you say, for you have helped to support yourself. And we didn't think that they'd be dorks and that the other organs wouldn't do that, because the law doesn't necessarily mean it's bad. Only if we respect the legal ones, if the writings are laid down, then this marriage is irrelevant. That things don't "make sense" is also the fact that Parliament would like to play the role of a constitutional court. And that's the excuse why you can't find the right way. Because there is no will, we do not have the right path, many times, not always that we are in the clear. And because we're not in the mood to find this way. This is where one sometimes wonders if we're lost, whether we've lost the compass, or whether this compass shows the wrong way. And what we are looking at today is a typical example of how we have somehow lost direction, and even when it comes to conclusions that we may have reached in a national assembly in such or in a different form on such and different occasions, it is now too much. And that's why you've adopted some sort of minimalist version of these conclusions. Those conclusions have been corrected so that they will not even come into force in this mandate. I think that this compass will have to be adjusted a little bit if we want to reach the ones that got away in 1918. But we all probably want to catch up with them or at least get very close to them, so of course I will also support the amendment that is now in addition, and there is something else that needs to be adopted, plus these conclusions that are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u354	Please. A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. Thank you, Mr. Petan, for admitting that you lost your compass, I am seriously concerned in the late hours of the morning that I am slowly losing it alone. When you've listed so many new points of view of corruption that it's actually already very innovative on your part. In only 13 cases listed in the request for an extraordinary meeting, and today, as in the previous meeting, the same. No evidence, some general references and so on. However, honourable proponents, we all agree that corruption is a serious problem for all societies. However, it is the policy's duty to face and eliminate, through appropriate legislation, supervisory mechanisms and trained services with corrupt practices, and to impose appropriate penalties on perpetrators of criminal offences, in accordance with the procedures envisaged and carried out. We hope that these are the right ways to fight this phenomenon. That is why we have placed both the anti-corruption law and the anti-corruption and economic crime strategy on the agenda of government parties, we are trying to strengthen the supervisory authorities and we are working to ensure that the services that fight these required phenomena are trained and successful. We all know that if crime grows, jobs must grow with it, too, they must be trained. However, I also assess, like you, Mr Petan, who lost the compass, that the way to deal with allegedly corrupt phenomena, as you suggested, is not only inappropriate, but also harmful. I think it's harmful because you're trying to create a visionary and show the situation in the wrong way to divide Slovenia and say, "Your thefts, ours are fair. You share resources so yours do, ours don't. All affairs are yours, all thieves are yours." So you wrote in the introduction of the request and then at point 13. Why do I think it's harmful? So you want to tell people that no one who has acted corruptly in Slovenia will be harmed if he hides himself in the ruling political party. [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] Your quote - you report it, I thank you, I find it correct. [[...]] But your allegations are not only inappropriate, because you are politically discrediting successful Slovenian companies, successful individuals, but are particularly harmful in their work, when you say: "Whoever joins a political party, nothing happens to him, even if he breaks the law." This may be a tending pre-election message. It's not true, and you don't actually believe it yourself. Even less, it is true that one of your claims, which has often occurred today, is that inconsistent regional development is a result of corruption. Dear applicants, the fate of the Ironworks in Ravnem in Koroška and the fate of the people of Koroška has never worried, I tell you this with full responsibility because you opposed the adoption of laws that enabled the survival of nuclear companies in this location and the preservation of jobs in the steel industry. Fortunately, Your Honor, you do not have the majority and have not been able to significantly jeopardise the process of completing the restructuring of this system, which has been a demanding project of this country and adequately balanced. That's why, Your Honor, I was so much more surprised by point 6 of your explanation when you included buying and selling one of the hardware companies at the Ravne during the last decade's big affair, that's Systemic Technology. And you know why - just a coincidence or something else - because the director of Stroji was before the forced settlement in 2002, when more than 700 jobs were threatened, a member of your Slovenian Democratic Party party, Mr Jože Studenčnik. And it's also after the sale or after your "so-called thieving" still the CEO of Systemic Technology. Your Honor, I want to read to him with this performance because I believe Minister Dr. Lahovnik that there was no thievery, and I know that a member of your party, Mr. Studenčnik, would not want to have fingers in such an affair. I know that he was genuinely concerned about the fate of the employees, like me and many others, and that today both of us are happy that our workers have kept jobs and that we hope for more in the future. Minister Lahovnik explained: on the basis of the performance of the sales control of Systemic Technics, we find that the sale of Systemic Technics was d.o.o. carried out in accordance with the rules in force, since the Commission took into account not only the interests of creditors in the sale of the company because it sold itself in the framework of a forced settlement, but also the objectives of the sales programme of subsidiaries, this is to ensure social security for as many workers as possible, and to provide a buyer, a strategic partner who will not only maintain the existing programme and production but will even extend it. This company is led by your member, a man I respect, you have classified as one of the so-called LDS corruption deals. And I will therefore try, despite this statement and the Minister's explanation, to translate this sale of the company into your language. And so with your language, this operation reads as follows: the LDS with corrupt acts of state property is stolen and placed in the protection of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Your Honor! If nothing else, you can't tell us about selfishness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u356	Comrade Jerovšek, you cannot replicate, and you know this because Article 70 does not allow it. The motioner has the floor. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Many today, many fellow Sok. [[...]] A lot of people. If I took the word of anyone who didn't stick to it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u357	Comrade Sok, when you're in power, you'll be able to speak all sorts. When you're in power, you can say anything and decide and nothing happens to you. What we have now heard, including what we have now heard, may indeed be excusable in this morning, but it is far from the truth. Systemic techniques weren't sold by Mr. Student, he's the manager there. It was sold by the government. The government sold a key part of this company, owned by a private company named Viator & Vector, led by the same people who were previously at the SIB bank in Ljubljana and so on. And they're mostly or virtually all of them in the Liberal Democracy, and one of them is in the United List. He was even a subroutine, if I'm not mistaken. A few months after the government bought the Systemic Technology, the stake of this company was sold to the Austrian company for a substantially larger amount. For a substantially higher amount. Mr. Student had nothing to do with this. The workers in this company didn't make any decisions. Perhaps they are happy to have kept their jobs. Don't you think we are? But someone's earned a lot of money here. And this is a private company that the government sold to for a substantial lower price system technique than they then sold immediately to the Austrian company. The government could peacefully sell the Systemic Technology without Viator to the Austrian company and the state budget would have some 100 million tolars more money, not SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u358	My colleague Petan has the floor first and then Irma Pavlinič Krebs' colleague. My friend Petan wants more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u359	I'll be very brief. Mrs. Irmi would like to give something to you. When she was telling the truth, we don't care what's going on in Koroška. Mrs. Irma, you will probably remember the problem of roads towards Koroška. The problem of roads towards Koroška was very pressing. You didn't think to table an amendment. We filed it, and another client to make us [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u360	Comrade Petan [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u361	Mr. Tanko has tabled an amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u362	This is not the subject of this debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u363	so that we could get inside then into the program also section against Koroška. [[...]] We did it, not you. And you didn't remember your Koroška, and we remembered that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u364	Comrade Petan, this is not the subject of this debate. First, I'd like to ask for peace in the hall. My colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs is the only one who has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u365	Thank you very much. In 2002, Mr Studenčnik reported to the municipal council of Ravne in Koroškem and says. It points out that the Machines programme has shown negative negative trends for many years, as open claims to creditors have already exceeded 4.3 billion tolars. This burdens society, they fear for 720 jobs. I'm the head of the company. The Ministry of the Economy is responsible for the fact that for some, the price at issue was the highest that they could bear as a level loser. License sold to an Austrian company [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Janša, let Mr Studenčnik explain to you that the production of the military programme did not bring the liquidity of the company because the licence took that much money. Let him explain and you'll see. At a meeting with the Prime Minister, Mr. Robb, your director agreed to the floor [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The director, a member of your party, has agreed to the word and is extremely pleased with the position created by the government with this sale for the successful development of this company in Koroška. Mr Petan, the Act on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks and the completion of the prestructure of your political option have not been supported. That's a fact, and that's why you're not talking about roads that I haven't mentioned at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u366	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u367	A respected colleague from a government party! Whatever the opposition supports or does not support, it has nothing to do with what you accept. This rejects nothing and does not accelerate anything because you are not concerned with what the opposition supports. If the sale to the Austrians was so successful - and probably was, as you say, also the director obviously says so - then tell me why the government did not sell it directly to the Austrians and why it sold it to the private company, the LDS friends, and then they sold it to the Austrians. Tell me that!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u368	Peace. I suggest that this discussion no longer proceed. The replica can be given exceptionally, and I gave it twice, colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs. I would like to have the next proposal, of course I do not wish to cut anyone short, but there are still many applications, but there is more than 12 hours of debate going on. Would it be possible to approach the decision on the proposal for conclusions? We also have three amendments to them, it'll take us a while. I will read it now in a row, including many who have cancelled the debate, and colleagues who are on the list, then we will find out if we can move on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u369	In 2000, the approved restructuring project of Slovenian ironworks - Mr Janša, it would be good to have more in the national assembly and what we were monitoring and what we were reading - predicted three phases that had to be realized. This is restructuring, rehabilitation and privatisation. The decision of this government, and on the basis of all the laws adopted in parliaments since 1992, was the final privatisation of steel companies, not only of this level. And these processes are going on and on intensively in these years. This is the end of the process of restructuring the system of Slovenian iron or steel mills in Slovenia. And this is simply to follow the policy adopted in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u370	Minister Lakhovnik. First Minister Lakhovnik then the proposer. Minister Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u371	I'll be very brief. It was an invitation to tender, but the Austrian partner did not sign up for the invitation to tender. Why can't you ask them? He didn't pay his share of the money either, while the Slovenian partner did. He later paid his share and obtained it on the basis of a licence. In short, it is a different method of payment and it is a public tender. Why they didn't sign up, but the question has to be addressed to the Austrian. Apparently, they also wanted a private partner with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u372	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u373	So, the way the road was running is, of course, another story, but what's essential is that the government sold it for a very low price, it could have sold it differently, because it knew exactly in advance, it knew not only in the professional circles, but also in the wider economic circles, who is interested in this company, but did not sell it to the final owner, but the sessions first sold at a low price to friends from Liberal Democracy, and then they sold it to a more expensive Austrian company.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u374	Could we perhaps move on to a decision-making process? Can I? Not yet. I'll take my turn. Comrade Bernick is not, colleague of the Potate is not, colleague of Trofenik - no, colleague of Juban - no. Comrade Tuck, you want a word? No, no, no. Comrade Majda Zupan has already performed, colleague Aurelia Yuri is not, colleague Fabjan is crossed out. My friend Jakich? He doesn't want to. My friend, Rupar. He's quitting. You're on, yes. My friend Mommy's not here. Buddy Bevk? You're giving up. Mag. There's no Kramberger. She's Shirtz's colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u375	Thank you very much. When we had a similar debate at our last meeting and had a common denominator as today's, that is, convincing the target, that is to say to the full-year public that everything is wrong in our countries, I gave an example that confirmed that such discussions are being pushed into the role of investigators, not legislators. And with the reference tool, that is to say those virtual charges which were contained both in the session's then call and contained in the extended form of this reference, I have presented an example of how our mandates are being played. This case, as you know, may have had even more solid justification than most of those mentioned in the reference. It was a complaint about the purchase of computers that took place during the time of Minister Zagozhn, without a public invitation to tender, which was overpaid and whose money was supposed to end up in two companies that were close to SDS or at least to a vein owned by the brother of the signatory, and which allegedly became a means of participation during the pre-election period. I say this because, later on, Mr Zagozhenz, whom I was referring to, was very relaxed and he was right to have gotten lost when we actually used such a tool even in a case that does not belong in this round of discussions. But he got angry because if, I wasn't there, I couldn't defend myself, and I couldn't deny what was or any way to comment. With this example, I would like to say that even today, many people who have been mentioned in frivolous terms have not been included in the plots and in many ways on the basis of certain newspaper designs or even similar statements. And they, too, had a sort of rapid court, as Mr Drobnič said today, could not put the State Assembly in the role of court. It's true, but it can't even play the role of a speedy court. I'm finding out something. Several times I went to the website, which was very carefully highlighted today, on the SDS website, where all cases of these types of corrupt and other acts are recorded here, which are present in Slovenia without being sanctioned. What I actually found in the analysis of this website - that it deals with the past, that it deals with looking back and solving some issues without having to do with the future or at least a little. In fact, something very similar is happening in interviews conducted by the President of the State, who is supposed to talk about the future of Slovenia, but not only about the past. Why? Because it's the easiest way not to say what you want to see and expect from the future, but you can only deal with the past. A very psychoanalyst case - but they warn me that I don't have time for this. I can give another example, which is actually an analog to what we know in cartoons. The heroes in cartoons, you know they're constantly facing some final act, in short, they're being run over, but they're always getting up again with the same arguments as if that train hadn't happened at all. I will not comment on one of the cases that I wanted to explain as one of the many in the case of the conviction of spending money in Telekom, as indicated on page 9, in IV. the chapter - the means that is supposed to be less wasteful at the time that Telekom was chaired by Marjan Podobnik, and I would point out that because incorrect data is evidence that 32 million sitts are supposed to be spent on sponsorships at this time, because there is something here - but I can also give them on the website - data that testify that 32 million is not the real truth, because already during this period it has been proven that it has been reduced to the sale of 34 million business gifts. The owner and the only employees in the company who bought these gifts were Yelen, based in Grosuplje, in Prešernovo 82. And let's go back to that discourse we had at the previous session, and it also comes up with the name Rajko Janša. But I can only tell you what the message of today's session is. The message of today's meeting is, as you said, that nothing moves in Slovenia, that nothing is resolved, that we live in an unhealthy society, in a harmful society that is not actually worthy of the European partners we have entered into, and that if anything needs to be done, we should be expelled from this community.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u376	On behalf of the proposer, he shall have the floor of his colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u377	They once got someone who robbed a bank and said they wouldn't be talking about the past now. We're talking about the future. That is roughly how the vice-president of the Liberal Democracy said, by lying in advance, proved to be true. The Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy has been lying, although we have for the last time rejected what she was saying. In the case against Dr. Zagrzeń, the investigation of the investigating authorities was completed, and even the indictment was brought. The investigation has not confirmed any link with the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor with the companies referred to by the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy, which is why it is therefore a comprehensible lie. As for the business gifts my brother sold to various companies. These are real products that have been sold and paid. My brother doesn't have any government functions or political functions. I don't know what the brothers or sisters of Mrs Shirca have, I don't know what they do, I don't care if they don't have political functions and they don't do that, but if they do, I don't know, we can ask about their relationship, if that's how the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy talks now. But what has been said before about these companies is a plausible lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u378	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I view yesterday's and today's debate as a major advance on the issue of corruption and clientism in Slovenia. Indeed, from today's debate we find that you have somehow acknowledged that corruption in Slovenia is, in the course of the previous debate at the previous meeting, still discussed in the main way and concluded that there is no corruption in Slovenia. And that is also what all the media have written about, that there is no corruption in Slovenia, thank God, now these things have moved a little further, now we just have to move things in this direction so that we can also successfully pursue these things and also sanction them. You speak very fast, and Mr Gantar has also talked about this, and some other debaters have also said that corruption in the world and in Slovenia has been, is and will be in the future - okay, I do not oppose it either. Surely this is an phenomenon that probably exists in the world since the beginning of countries and will probably exist by the end of the world, but the problem is that in this or all countries in the world have a legal order and have legislation to combat abuse, it is against the abuse of public funds, against abuse - or in any way - of concealing state property, then paying taxes and so on; in short, all of this is legally sanctioned everywhere. And what is the difference between Slovenia and the other democratic world? I'm sure there's a big difference. Indeed, corruption is rapidly being resolved abroad, as we have seen from previous discussions, and so almost none of us have. Here you have also found yourself in all these debates, yesterday and today. A fine example of how these things are being solved in the world, since this has already been discussed today, is, of course, this unfortunate American Enron, where, as soon as the affair broke out, they caught or did something good in this case. Now, for criminal matters, I don't know how far they've been brought, but I'm sure there's been immediate detention. The fines were high, and most importantly, what has never happened in Slovenia and will never happen, to those who were involved, also illegally acquired property was seized. Yes, ma'am, ma'am. This is a democracy or a developed democracy that we can only dream about in Slovenia. And now that I have just mentioned this unfortunate Enron, I will also explain what is actually happening to us with these terrible commissions, which some Members have previously spoken about and deceived the Slovenian public with such pamphlets or some sketches that someone brought to the National Assembly, and then even happened that someone took it and wrote that the source of the national assembly is a total lie. And here you are saying, here on this sketch it is drawn that heavy commissions were paid and also that the director of Eles, who was then in this Bajuk government, was probably involved in these commissions. Now you're charging for damages for two billion 300 million dollars. But all right! I don't mind. If you find that out, mostly so far all the judgments against Mr Turk, against the director of the former Eles, all the accusations and judgments you've actually dropped so far. And you'll still lose everything. This is definitely because you have no arguments and all your accusations are based on May. And now I'm going to tell you another story. But who "cashed" commissions, I ask you, from the sale of electricity from 1998 to at least half of 2001, which is also investigated by our investigative commission, where your theory, which you have developed here, is actually involved, is over 30 billion according to your theory. Over 30 billion! I did the calculations based on the records of the Court of Auditors. These are, in fact, reachable contracts, where the Court of Auditors has precisely identified and see what it says here. Mr Pivk concluded a contract with the largest energy supplier or buyer, IPG, for 39.66 euros. 39, almost 40 Euros after a megawatt hour, while Mr Banic and others were buying or selling electricity, see, 1470 gigawatts after 14.99 - say 15 Euros per megawatt hour: Mr Turk, I said before, almost 40 Euros and you say that it was very convenient and that given that the Croatians would pay us - this too was, say, if we converted to to tolars there for 1998, for example, 82, the Court of Auditors calculated, for a kilowatt hours, Croatia would pay us if we supplied electricity to Croatia and 4 and about, and then we got paid in 1998 for it 2,82. Almost two tolars were lost after a kilowatt-hour, almost 50%. And you claim now and all your cream that the sale of 2,82 let's say average, even after 2,62 was sold electricity and even cheaper probably - all contracts now will not be mentioned - that it was very beneficial of Croatia to get 4 and half - it was not good, but certainly if you continued to supply electricity with legal means you could probably recover it, with interest in order, with late interest, but no! The electricity had to be cut off, so you could sell it after two and a half, 2.60, 2.80 tolars per kilohour. And you claim that this has been very successful and that this has brought nuclear power plants extremely stable operations. You can imagine. 4 But the half was unstable, because the Croats did not pay, but they should pay, because the covenant bound them, and it would be lawful to recover it. I wonder if it was 2,82 or 2,60 favorably sold electricity I mean energy - why didn't you then sell for one tolar kilohour, because that would be even more convenient according to your theory. In short, from what now follows here, it has been sold abroad in this period - say the period under examination - 5,300 gigawatt hours of electricity at an average price, if I now estimate here, about 3 and half tolars per kilohour. And you claim that this was successful, but Mr Turk, who sold the first contract that he signed, or the second contract that he signed, was 8.5 tolars, and you were 3 and half, and those gentlemen were selling 3 and a half. And that was nice! In short, now it's time to ask who then cashed this commission. I have simply calculated, where I have only taken into account that the full price of the nuclear power plant should be covered, the full price of the power plant should be covered if it is to sell, say, energy. But it would be nice to sell it if we sold it with profit. That's definitely it. Electricity is also sold like a potato. It's a market treasure. If you have it, you sell it, if you don't have it, you can't sell it; offer, demand, etc. - We know what can happen on the market. In short, it is clear from this that, according to my calculation, 15 billion damages or almost 16 billion, if only, are taken to calculate the price that your gentlemen have achieved and the price that should cover at least our own costs in the nuclear power plant itself. However, if we are also counting that profit and when you demand that Mr Turk sell 44 euros instead of 40 euros, because here you call the "draft contract for direct sale 8.9.2000", then Korošec was suspended 21.9.2000. Why didn't you bring this draft treaty to my attention in the investigative commission process? No! No! You didn't take it because you didn't have any documents because you didn't have them. The Court of Auditors precisely found that there were no other documents, and they demanded that these documents be brought -- let me read to you which side is that? And the Court of Auditors found that there was no data, no other data, and that, in fact, when they requested that data, it was not possible to deliver them because they were simply not available. It's a shame that I can't find it so quickly right now, but look, it says here on page 24, look what was going on, what Mr Korošec wanted, when he wanted to reduce the effect that Mr Turk had achieved with the long-term contracts. With this contract, Eles - this contract is discussed with the IPG, where he sold Mr Turk 40 euros almost for a megawatt hour. With this contract, Eles marketed 50% of the NEK capacity available after the cut-off of the electricity supply to the company [[...]] "In the course of the audit, Eles explained that he sold the electricity he bought from Enron - 364 giants - and Verbund - 140 gigawatts - at an average price of EUR 28 per megawatt hour, which was not evident from the documentation submitted. During the audit, Eles provided only a contract concluded with IPG - that is, Turkovo - for the sale of excess energy from NEK. In addition, Eles in realisation - and on and on. In short, look at what Mr Korošec tried to prove in this revision process - that energy was imported on one side to export it, but there was no such contract and there was no way to prove it. In short, it's an extremely big manipulation and I'm asking you now, you tell me, because I couldn't find out, even though we have a variety of clues where 15,30 billion commissions have been made, which someone "cashed". You have to answer that question. And in this system, given that you last gave me just ten minutes as much as the proposer and ten minutes later at the end, Mr President of the National Assembly extended this to me, and you didn't do another three or four hours as you did by attacking the President of the Commission and the report as unprofessionally prepared. I have now taken into account the Court of Auditors' report, which only further substantiates what the Commission has already found and I am very interested in how you will justify it. Just one more point would touch on what is actually happening in the area of customerism in Slovenia. You know the New Town affair, you know the Communal New City affair, where one of the workers - I can also give you a name if you want - put on edge all the irregularities that have happened there. And what happened to her? After a short period of time, when the police actually came - and this is the Ljubljana police, as has already been said, the novices did not trust because it was a connected system - in the company and they did, of course, review the documentation and this person concerned, the lady cooperated or tried to explain certain information to the investigators at the request of the investigators. And then what happened to her? Look, then there was terrible pressure on this lady, and among other things it was said - see what the Director said when this lady of the company's directors always informed about all these irregularities and what the Director said. She was dealing mainly with one person from the staff service and the director said the following, she wrote this: "He offered me even an LDS accessionist and he insisted that I should think carefully, because if I was to be protected, it would be wise to enter the client." That's it. "I promised I'd reconsider, I didn't enter the client, but I kept the approach statement." In short, if you want to be protected, say, in some system, in some company, then you have to be a party member, or you don't have protection. And of course, because she didn't enter the client - what happened then? Then it happened because she had previously been on an individual contract, this woman went through a severe bleeding. And what happened? It was on an individual contract and then immediately followed number 1 of the individual employment contract and, among other things, a whole series of additional tasks were written that did not actually touch this person at all because it was essentially the head of accounting, but even a number of tasks had been imposed on it. Among other things, they have written this in this annex of the contract, and I quote: "In the case of health indications and following recommendations or instructions from a doctor, a medical specialist is required to work for the temporary inability of a worker to work as referred to in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of this Article to work on a temporary basis and the worker is obliged to accept a second job corresponding to the worker's remaining working ability." In short, the pressure on the worker began, even by trying to prove to her with a specialist doctor that she had some signs of inability to do her job. But that wasn't enough, of course, then the story went on. The individual contract was terminated and a contract of employment was written, which she did not want to sign. What happened? Here they wrote in this employment contract a whole series of requirements which, of course, could not be accepted. Among other things, they have been defined by a competitive clause, and you know well who know this labour law, as well as individual contracts, you know what a competitive clause means and you also know what anti-competitive clauses are. If there is a competitive clause for individual contracts, then the company also tells this worker that it prohibits any action by a competitive clause, for that period it pays a certain amount of compensation.This is where they wrote in the competitive clause: "Worker after termination of the employment relationship by its will or guilt in society for two years must not use the technical and production knowledge or management relationships acquired in society. The employer may terminate the employment relationship, derogate in writing from the persistence of a competitive clause." In short, without any rights, without all else, a simple two-year worker shall not use technical and production knowledge or management relationships in the ordinary contract of employment. Other types of other obligations, strange, from medical threats See, they wrote: "In the case of health idiosyncratics and following recommendations or instructions of a doctor specialist for medical work in the case of temporary incompetence..." [[...]] - it's been copied what was before. In short, things like that. They wanted to make a fool out of a man and try to prove it to him, and based on psychological pressures, they prepared him to simply show signs of inability to work and that they could also put him off. Well, this worker then gave up and started looking for a job elsewhere in New City, but wherever she knocked, they told her everywhere, sorry, ma'am, our hunters are long and there are no jobs for you in New Town anymore. Well, that happens, like, with someone who accidentally resists the system, corruption, embezzlement of money. You can see for yourself what happened in the case of the New Town Commune. It's still on the table, but we'll see what happens. In short, the integration of persons in all, throughout the system, from the political system to the economic system is also evident in this case. I am sure that this case proves, not only in this case, but the general practice in this country, that clienteleism is extremely present in this country and that it is growing worse and worse. And my greatest satisfaction is that, in fact, people everywhere I turn up are asking me when this is going to stop. When will this rule, 12-year-old LDS, and when will things change in the other direction? And of course I can't tell them anything else like, it's up to you how things are going to develop. I've told people a hundred times, and I've actually tried to explain to people what it's really all about, but it's not just my decision, it's in the hands of all the people. And I hope that this will also happen soon, that they will make a just decision and grant power to the one who also belongs to him in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u380	Comrade Wolf, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u381	I apologize to my fellow Members and colleagues, but I think there are two things that need to be highlighted today in these early morning hours. Dear leader of the biggest opposition party, Mr Janša! If you're already accusing Vice President LDS of lying in evidence, I'm going to try to prove to you that you are knowingly and knowingly deceiving yourself. Deception. Already on the Internal Policy Committee, as well as today, you have deceived this National Assembly and the public with the following statement. "After a survey by the Ministry of the Interior carried out by the FDV among the senior public servants of the Slovenian State, 38% of the LDS members, 24 percent of the parties' designated senior executives, and 24 percent of the United List of Social Democrats." You'd think [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, we've already told you, yeah. [[...]] You've already answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u382	My friend Janš, don't be argumentative.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u383	Yeah, and I'll say it again, because it can happen again, so you can do it again. You know, because sometimes it doesn't hurt twice. You know, I'll read it to you, and I don't know if you've read it. It's written by the author of this research. I quote: "Hello! I'm submitting an entire questionnaire with some additional information. Opposition [[SDS]] Or whoever it is, it's also spreading information that it's a U.N.S. investigation. That's not true at all. This is a fully independent survey carried out within the framework of the Centre for Political Research, which did not receive any funds from the State budget, and there is no contracting authority. This is a study that "The last paragraph is very interesting. [[...]] "I hope I've been of help. I just can't stand it if someone is abusing my research, and they still can't read the results of the research correctly." That's why, Comrade Janša, I repeat. Of the 469 included in this public survey, 233 replied to the questionnaires. Of these, they answered the question whether you are a member of one of the political parties, 12.9 percent or 30 people out of 233. And then if we say 38 percent of LDS members, that's 11 people. To conclude from this that this is just so in general. And that is, if you're already using some premonitions about the robbery, like if a bank robber were caught in a bag full of money, he'd claim that the perpetrators were others. That's similar. And swindling! This is about the role of immediate family members, brothers, sisters, women, etc. Well, that's a hoax. You know, maybe it's not pure clientelism, but it's nepotism, which is also very dangerous. And "It is interesting that, before the last national elections, Mr Janša, as the largest staff member of the then Bajuk government, also placed him at the head of Telekom Marjan Podobnik," - I only read the articles - "who knew who he must be kind to, since Telekom in 2000 and 2001 ordered large amounts of business gifts from the companies Yelen and Promart design, which are owned by Rajak Janša, brother Janez Janša. What kind of business gifts" etc. In two years, 70 million for a variety of gift baggies. I don't know. I think it's huge. And: "The data appear informally," etc. It's clearly written here, in the first year 34 and 36. And that's also a trick. It is not surprising, therefore, that in proposal 7 of the decision there is no mention of immediate family members, although in some ways it is against the recent adoption of the 'anti-corruption law', if it can be so called, where a clear operating ban is also recorded, as far as immediate family members are concerned in certain cases. Perhaps these conclusions are directed in this direction so that this does not happen by chance. So look, before you accuse anyone of lying, please, at least you don't cheat, because you've been in politics for so long that you know that you'll be found sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u384	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u385	So, I don't know what Mr. Jakič's relatives or Mr. Vukko's relatives are doing; whether he has a brother or a sister and whether he is doing business or what he is doing or a close family member, we can look into it. Certainly not nepotism, Mr. Wolf. Nepotism is the placement of relatives or immediate family members into political or authority functions. It's nepotism. What you're talking about is customerism. At least that's what we should be separating. Apparently, they didn't teach you that in Tacno. Mr Marjan Podobnik was not appointed by John Janša, but by the government. And Mr Marjan Podobnik has been at the helm of Telekom for a long time in the time of the Drnovška government and the LDS government, as at the time of the Bajuk government. And my brother's company was already in business with Telekom, and I think it was later, and it was selling concrete items to Telekom, just like other companies and these deals are verifiable. The partner of the Vice-President of Liberal Democracy, with whom they bought agricultural land through Strunjan, Mr Ocvirk, and the former high-ranking official of Liberal Democracy, earned 300 million tolls in just one year to Telekom on these data, which are also on the website for various annexes to various contracts where the same were practically signed on both sides. That, dear Mr. Wolf, is customerism.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u386	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u387	Thank you for your word. In view of my challenge, I ask myself: 70 million, and before that, the value of a million tolars was negligible. So I don't know what customerism is, nepotism. And even when we are talking about customerism, let Mr Kelemina tell me what this means that his wife was appointed to the Supervisory Council of Brest during the Bayuk government. Now let me define Mr. Janša what customerism is, what nepotism is. But in any case, in the case of his brother, it is evident that at that time his income was 70 million, otherwise he was selling gifts before and after that there was about a million tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u388	Let's move on to the debate. Comrade Sušnik, colleague of Ana Maria Tisovic, colleague of Jerica Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't speak very often, and now I'm going to be very short. Five times, ten times, fifteen times and more, we listen to the same things in a slightly different way, as if we were looking at ourselves, as if we were enjoying our speech, it is larpuratism. And when it comes to deleted issues, about these ghost catastrophes, and when it comes to customerism and corruption. I understand the opposition, but corruption is unfortunately also on your side. We use energy to make creative progress, not to stumble with constant accusations. Our country is young and small. Whatever the case, it must be acknowledged that there is a great deal of work to be done, a lot to be done, and we are still missing from a good and social state, and we are using energy for creative and harmonious work. Allow me now in this beautiful morning some treasures of rich Slovenian poetry, which is not "l'ar pair l'ar". It takes many simple words, such as bread, love, and goodness, to avoid blindness in the dark, on the intersections of the way, going down the right path. It takes much, much silence outside and within us to hear the voice of quiet, timid, receptive voice, doves, ants, and people of hearts and their pain, in the midst of injustices and armies, in the midst of all that is not bread, love and goodness. The silence, the silence, the heart just to measure the time, show the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u390	Let's move on. My friend Jakich? No, no, no. Comrade Viceroy? No, no, no. My friend Potts? No, no, no. My friend Janc, Cimperman, Dr. Bretz's not here. Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u391	Mr President, the moment of truth is approaching, which shows the final result. We stayed up all night, and I hope that as few people as possible are with us either on the Internet or on national television. With today's session, we have driven the matter under your leadership over the brink of absurdity. Never before has the reputation of the National Assembly been as low as this beautiful morning as Mrs Jerica Mrzel has now said. I hope that the only result of this, Mr President, is that you will agree to the college and limit yourself to your generosity in wasting the reputation of the National Assembly. What you've allowed us to do is make a mockery of this institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u392	My colleague Kacin, let me say that there have been many coordinations within the College, how this meeting will take place and so it has been held. My friend Kovtičnik. A fellow Comedian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u393	Mr. President, I'm protesting, do you seem to be reading my name a little poorly or how?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u394	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u395	I mean, I can show you if [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u396	No, it's okay. Comrade Kavčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Clientism and corruption are these very legitimate issues, the diseases of modern societies, but the way we dealt with them here with the help of a colleague's coalition is probably not the most productive. In one piece there were things like top energy, passive energy when you talked about electricity, Forum 21, Anderlič's service path, Vectors, Trends and at the top of Matjaž Gantar. Such a combination cannot help to create a structured understanding of the problem, and the question that you have been around for a long time, that IMD research, of course, was just one example of how such an unstructured view cannot bring it very far. I would like to point out that this kind of research can, of course, be a useful tool when we try to identify the situation in society, but it is a qualitative perception analysis that allows for a better identification of feelings. However, if we want to get as much an expert view of the objective situation, of course, we need to add quantitative data, quantitative analyses, and here we will find that we have problems in Slovenia, but we also have achievements, we have modest economic growth, which is still twice as high as the average of the European Union and therefore we need to look at things realistically. All I'm trying to do is point out a matter that hurt me. I didn't give a shit about sausages, so completely unserious about serious companies, about reputable companies. The name Iskre -Autoelectrica was mentioned, without any understanding and respect for the achievements of this reputable company, whose story did not begin, as was said in 2000, the story began in 1946, even in the midst of the collapse of Yugoslavia, when it had to be redirected from the domestic market from 90% and more to the external market, and today it is a company that is very successful in the state-of-the-art technologies of 42 volt technologies and aggregates that replace the old hydraulic systems in braking and steering mechanisms. Something small needs to be known and respected about what individual economic operators in our economy have done before their names are so easily intertwined here in the National Assembly. That is why, of course, I think it is right that this topic is on the agenda, but I would like to have a more calm debate in the future, because we will be able to achieve more together.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u398	That I won't let anyone else go. My friend Kovtičnik? [[No, no, ……]] I'd rather ask twice than see anything go wrong. A fellow Comedian. Comrade Kopushar, colleague Kremjar, colleague Lavrinz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u399	Don't be afraid, I'll be very short. I would like to thank Mr Pečet and the others who have mentioned me on purpose, especially Mr Pecchet, for showing, of course, what level of discussion he is capable of. For others, I will also say that I am grateful to them for mentioning me, whether it's hard or paocholo or not, I'm in session. I do not allow the Committee's discussions to turn into something similar today's debate in the National Assembly. As my colleague Kacin has already told you, Mr President, I also place my heart on you to think about the future. Look, the Slovenians never liked power because it was never ours. Such authorities as this one are here today, when people without shame sail after others, when they are insulted, when they are insultingly accused of crimes, I tell you that such powers are not the kind of authority that I like. That's why I'm kind of glad there's going to be an election soon. Mr. President, please, if you will calm them down. I know that culture really isn't their best part. I will also say that I look forward to these elections and in some ways almost empathize with the Slovenian nation, because, apart from those who are now in power, there is never any other choice. She doesn't have one. I'd say that myself. Two conclusions were also proposed in the part where we discussed the conclusions. One was that we would have agreed in advance if the reports were to be such as to set up an investigative commission. But I myself have proposed this, because there was no spray for this to be an official proposal, but I am giving you this opportunity to make all the material that they brought here, all of these strong files, Mr. Janša is very significant after how he, in cooperation with the Red Cross, with national television, can make a real show out of giving those files, not to Mr. Penk in this role, but what crime to the police, to the prosecution and that those who are dedicated to it in this country [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Janš, let us calm down, but for the champion of the opposition, it really is not appropriate for him to shout like this. To give it to those who are skilled and who do not do what we have done here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u400	My friend Peca wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u401	Acceptance of the role [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u402	On behalf of the proposer, if I understand correctly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u403	Accepting the role, being chairman of a certain committee, the working body of the national assembly is, of course, a matter of an individual. I don't believe you're getting it, Mr Lavrinc, but it's not an object. You and some speakers have spoken before you about, in my opinion, quite an important topic, apparently to the proponents that they used some of the names of Slovenian companies after negligence or purpose and put them in a position to do so. In any case, one would basically imagine that all of a sudden there was concern in your species for the Slovenian economy. On the other hand, to all of you, Mr Kavčič, Mrs Širci, and not least to you, Mr Lavrinc, I hope you will understand what I am trying to say to you. If your committee, if you as President were aware of your position, would allow the opposition or parties who requested an extraordinary meeting to at least allow the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee to be invited or attended by the invited ones we have proposed. This would solve the dilemmas that have always been raised through speeches by Members of the Liberal Democracy. With this, many names would be left needlessly out of our conversation. But it was you who banned, stressed, banned, as a democratic president, of course, as you have a working body, and thereby prevented certain companies from protecting themselves. So the fact is that because of your incompetent management of your parent's working body in this case you also have to attribute this part of the blame to the fact that the companies mentioned themselves because we couldn't discuss on your parent's working body and the content would, of course, be deprived.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u404	Yes, you have a replica of Comrade Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u405	I will only thank my colleague Pecchet once again for proving once again that I have not been wrong about the level of his discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u406	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Did you find that the National Assembly is actually one of John Janša’s hostage communities? And this story has been going on for six months. First, they were JLA soldiers waving Janša with some unrecognizable papers. Then they were erased. Finally, as a third, because they could not be wiped out or expelled, we are banished to the internal opposition somewhere. This is clearly the only option for the great leader to continue to sow hatred, both to the past and to the present and to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u408	Colleague Lydia Majnik. [[No, no, ……]] My friend Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u409	Thank you for your word. I've got a minute of time and I'm gonna use it to tell you that I was expecting more from the materials I read. From what I have been told, I have found that I can use a proverb that says: “Speakers have a rich sex life. And that they tried so hard to be right in the text that they forgot what was going on in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u410	Come in. My friend Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u411	Very briefly at this early hour. I don't know how our Minister of Health would evaluate this as an on-call with effective or ineffective hours. I would certainly say that, with one evaluation, I would estimate this more than what we have done today, madness. I think we're a long way from some extraordinary situation, but they're trying to create themselves. I think that our citizens will probably, and also the media, evaluate this as I have mentioned. I don't think we need to do this in the future. Unfortunately, I haven't heard any new facts either. I hope that I will no longer have to listen to them many times, and it will probably also now be reflected in some media ratings so that the opposition will probably notice that it is no longer doing itself a service and that we will no longer have any extraordinary meetings in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u412	My friend Moja? [[No, no, ……]] A fellow Partich? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Pucko? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Shirtz has already spoken, colleagues of Školč are not, fellow Špindler is not, colleague Švagan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u413	Thank you very much. I've only got 17 seconds left as LDS' last speaker. I would particularly like to thank the opposition for the beautiful quality promotion of the so-called Zagorski stories of success, about Ultra and thank Gregor Golobic for coming to work in our valley and helping us with this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] increased interest in investing in the Zagorje Valley, including at the expense of the opposition. [[...]] That's what we're saying. We're growing ratings, just like the LDS is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u414	Time's up. He also wants a proposaler or a government within the time available to them. Please. Then we'll move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u415	Finally, on behalf of the proponents, I would like to state that the claim we made in the introduction, namely, that there is still no legal conclusion in any of these major thefts, that virtually no one who has been injured has received back what has been taken from them, and that nothing has been taken from those who have done harm and thus have acquired property. This situation is said by the ruling authorities to be normal. We have even been accused of having these initiatives for an extraordinary meeting of attacks on the economy, on good companies and so on. I have to say it's the opposite. In doing so, we want to ensure that the policy finally derails the economy, that the rulings withdraw from the economy, that they stop collecting grey taxes in successful companies. After his first extraordinary meeting, the Prime Minister said that he was somehow disappointed because he saw that the opposition, instead of having a programme, was talking about fighting corruption. I must say that I am disappointed by this statement because I have so far naively believed that the fight against corruption is a common programme in this country, that it is not only a programme when it comes to opposition, but that it is also a government programme. In every normal country, the fight against corruption must be part of the programme, both government and opposition. Here we have a statement by the Prime Minister that he is disappointed that the opposition has given its programme to fight corruption. We have already said at our first extraordinary session that we have no illusions that anyone is immune before corruption, nor do we create illusions that if the parties now in opposition were in power that corruption would not exist. This is also why, with the proposal we made at the beginning of last year on behalf of the Slovenian Coalition, we took it seriously. We believe that, as long as the government has influence and manages property in state and public enterprises, it would be normal for the opposition, whatever it is, to propose to a third of the experts in the supervisory councils. If our client is ever in the government, we will do so, whether or not the ruling will do so in this mandate. Not only is this healing for the country as well as for the economy, but it is healing for those who are in power, and it is sad that those who are now in power do not want to be aware of it. What is proposed in the conclusions themselves, I must say that mockery is also from what you yourself have proposed. Real decisions which are legally correct, which are the same as in the case of SIB, and then voted in the same legal service and in the same rules of procedure, have now been amended. These three now changed are funny in the part where you laid a deadline of four months. By giving the deadline of four months, you admitted to being afraid of these reports. If we were not afraid of these marriages, if we were not afraid that these reports would be discussed before the elections, we would give some normal hands. Now you're going to give up hands that are ridiculous. With these hands you can accept the conclusions or not, it totally doesn't matter. We will therefore support the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, which move these hands on a proposal for a month, which we have also proposed. If you do not want to smile further, I suggest that at least a change of these deadlines be supported jointly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u416	Does he still want the word? Minister. Minister Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u417	For a little while. Just a few points of reply. There used to be talk of a coalition agreement. Mr Janša mentioned that it allows for a political appointment to the economic and I do not know what functions. The Coalition Treaty speaks mainly of appointments to political functions, to those functions in the government's domain and carried out by the government as a political body. In addition, the Secretary-General shall not decide on this, but shall forward proposals and consult with the Ministers and consult in the context of the coalition. That's what the coalition contract is talking about. Another time. The fact that the Supervisory Board of Telekom Slovenije has replaced Mr Grašek because he has reduced his sponsorship is pure nonsense. Mr Grašek has broken up with the Supervisory Board due to differences in views of IP telephony and IP platform, which I have talked about a lot. When Mr Grašek became chairman of the administration, I myself advised him to cut costs, including sponsorships. And that's what he did. That's what he did. In fact, since 2000, telecommunications in Europe have taken over a period of, say, "dry cows" and others have been reducing costs at all, including sponsorships and so on. And the third time. Mr Janša mentions the possibility or the proposal to appoint a third of the people or experts to the supervisory boards of companies, public companies, if I understand correctly what opposition parties would suggest. I object to this because it is the law of this political mutiny. Politics must come out of these supervisory councils, political appointment and law must come out of these supervisory councils. And even if you're in power and when you offer it, if I have a word to say, I'll object. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u418	Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u419	I'd touch that research. I don't know, Mr. Bayuk, if you don't understand or don't want to understand what I'm talking about. I said that at the time, here are ten criteria where Slovenia is very well classified. And if you take these criteria, there are nine relatively expressed, plus one index. When I talked about the real growth of commercial services, it's a percentage. Since Slovenia is a small country, comparisons need to be based on real data. If you take nominal information on the next page, we are, of course, classified substantially, significantly worse. Here, when we talk about economic performance, it's 7, and we're classified very badly. 7 data are nominal, two are obtained from the research. One pointer is relative. For governance efficiency, where we are poorly classified, 8 are derived from research, but only three are from research. That's all I was talking about. About objective and subjective indicators, of course I referred to the authors of this study, which pointed out the subjectivity and complexity of this study by the participants in this study in Slovenia. That's what this was all about. And I think that's completely understandable. Mr. Petty Officer, you were talking about taxes and you were talking about how little Ultra paid the profit tax. Besides the profit tax, of course, employees pay their income, pay their social contributions. Over 100 employees are in Ultra, multiply this times 100 and times 12, you'll see that that invested money in Ultra has already come back a dozen times. But what happened was the loan speech, and what I have to say is that I didn't understand. If Srd gave Ultra 150 million and Ultra showed a billion tolars of credit, there are other sources. I don't see any problem with that. The point is that the loan was repaid. But as for the general approach when you talked about companies that are ours, who are yours, who are rich, who are poor. I put all the companies that acquired the funds on the list at that last extraordinary session, even when Ultra acquired them. And these companies are over 300. If you have "know-how", please divide them into ours and the rich and the poor, and I will be very happy if you provide this list. I can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u420	A colleague of mine, and Dr. Bajuk. The proposaler of colleague Peca and colleague Dr. Bajuk yet. You have three minutes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u421	In the Slovenian National Party Group, we expected more from today's debate, and we expected, above all, that everyone who spoke today would be able to condemn customerism, corruption and money laundering. Unfortunately, you have not been able to judge, let alone take measures that would prevent such an action in the future. I must also say that we regret that the basic proposals for the conclusions proposed by the proponents did not run into fertile ground and that you have reached today, in the ruling majority, conclusions that will actually have no substantive meaning. That's too bad. As far as the National Parties are concerned, we regret this kind of unreality on your part and such support for customerism, corruption and money laundering, which you have created or will result in today's decision-making within the framework of the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u422	Dr. Bayuk, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u423	Thank you very much. I'm not going to answer this research anymore because the book will come out and maybe the minister will read it and maybe he'll understand what it's all about. In fact, I would like to mention my disappointment at some of the things I have heard today, especially what my colleague Kramberger from LDS said. Development will bring Excuse me, Cremary, good morning! [[...]] Development will bring less corruption. It's about to happen. Corruption has been, is, will be, and development will bring it no more. Mr Penko spoke on behalf of the government from the beginning, yes, if civil society were perhaps more active. What we have pointed out is that civil society in Slovenia, because it is financed from the budget, actually acts as a centrally planned civil society in order to make it impossible and pointless. Then the Minister of Justice came forward and wanted to tell us that it was no big deal that there was nothing else in the world. Well, ma'am, there are ways in which civil society can legally be financed without a government by allowing taxpayers to decide for themselves who they give and who they don't. However, in our country under your rule and in this composition, this National Assembly has further reduced the possibility that taxpayers can make any decisions, since the benefits have been reduced to 2%. If we don't have time now, I'll explain to you the second time, and I'll tell you how many countries in the world are funding their civil society only through tax reliefs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u424	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u425	and without being so completely dependent on the government and constantly standing at the doors of ministries and asking for funds. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u426	We are now moving on to a complementary proposal for conclusions. Please, mag. It's a trifle. No, you don't have any more time. The debate is over. Just a minute. Look, we've been through all the reports in the debate. It was a long debate. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u427	Mr. President, two and a half minutes left and I said, this is a replica, I showed [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's right. Go take a look at the record. Two minutes, 48 minutes, and I was misinterpreted by Mr. Secretary. First of all, Minister, the distribution of state aid is not governed by the principles of capital investment and the maximisation of returns. The task of the State is to treat State aid in other ways. I resent that very much. Therefore, you have calls to invest in Portorož, which is why you will reduce the differences in the regions. Laugh, listen, it's not about capital investment. And secondly, taxes and income. Besides, I don't know what you mean. These are changes to laws in which the ruling coalition has reduced the possibility of relief from 3% to 2% and from 2% to 1% if you give for the purposes of humanitarian organisations. This is contrary to the principle of ensuring the independence of the financing of charities and humanitarian organisations and civil society. You want to give to the rich and take to the poor. Thank you very much for your principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u428	Minister Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u429	I guess it's a really late hour and you didn't listen to me, or early, anyway. In short, I don't know why you're misquoting me. If you look at the aid that the government has supported the restructuring of some companies, then it is quite clear that one of the key criteria for maintaining jobs was the long-term prospects of the company, the importance of the company for the local environment, if you want. I have also previously stressed the balance of regional development. And I don't know how from these criteria you've brought it all down to, as you said, a capital return that is, of course, important in the long run. However, it is quite clear that this is a business where the healthy part of the programme is being resolved, where they are trying to save jobs and thus contribute to the healthy restructuring of Slovenian companies. That's what this is about. But where did you get everything else, and I have to say I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u430	Director Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u431	I'll be very brief myself. I would just like to point out that in the procedure before the National Assembly, there is a resolution on the prevention of corruption or a proposal for this act, which brings 171 measures of an institutional, legislative and practical nature. And these are the measures, and I am referring to what colleague Peca's fellow Member has been saying. These are measures that would actually be valuable and well supported if the National Assembly really wanted to be constructive, strategic and long-term, or to tackle corruption. These are the measures that your legislative service has said are even too specific. And we are kind of proud that we have been able to prepare such measures, which are so concrete in essence, that it is in some way already a reflection on all those other abstract acts that we are dealing with. Thus, you will have before you all, virtually all the necessary measures that are needed in all sectors, all segments of our society, according to our assessment, need to be taken in order to engage in corruption constructively in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u432	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u433	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you were just speaking in the other direction. When you look at the magnetogram, you'll see that this story, which you finally told, is another story. Compare previous statements regarding the granting of aid and you will see that the matter is different. But now you've turned the board around, I'm afraid, but only at the end of the last minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u434	Good. Minister Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u435	I've even counted very specific companies. I was talking about Sparkle capacitors, about Svea. In short, I was talking about the Maple of Pivka, and I also distributed them regionally. Now I'm challenging you. List five companies where profitability and other criteria have been strictly taken into account as a criterion? [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u436	We'll be at another session. I'm going to close the debate now. We'll come to a decision. In the report you received on the bench, the report of the competent working body contains, on the seventh page, additional proposals for conclusions under order numbers 1, 2 and 3. Please have this document in front of you. I also ask you to take into account the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group for all three decisions. The debate is closed. It is not possible to cooperate in any other way than with the explanation of vote. We will first decide on the amendment to the first proposal for a decision. Now I'd like to ask for your attention to explain how I feel about taking the decision-making procedure. If there's any objection, sooner than later. We will therefore decide first on the amendment to the 1st Decision and on the 1st Decision, on the amendment to the 2nd Decision and on the 2nd Decision and on the amendment to the third Decision and on the third Decision. Is he okay? Okay. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party proposed an amendment to the proposal for a first decision. We will now vote on him. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. Voice explanation, Comrade Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u437	Thank you for your word. I ask Members and Members of Parliament to vote at one hour that we have worked all night, that we have worked all night, so that, of course, I can explain my voice. I'm asking you nicely because you've cooked this story yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u438	This is not an amendment. Voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u439	Mr President, please allow me to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u440	Peace in the hall! You have that right, but you need to focus on the proposal. Please, time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u441	No one in this room today said that there was no corruption in this country. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, he didn't say, and the ministers are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u442	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u443	Government ministers have also acknowledged that corruption is in this country. The government ministers also acknowledged that political recruitment is essential and that it is too much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that if the government coalition votes on the proposal to the first, second and third decisions, which will set a four-month deadline that will expire exactly at midnight on 1 October when the electoral silence, the mockery from the rule of law, the mockery from the role of this Parliament, and at the same time proof that you are afraid of detecting corruption in your own kind. If you have the role of parliamentarians, I also invite you, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to vote in favour of shortening these deadlines to 30 days, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that you can reasonably show that there is no corruption [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u444	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u445	or to take all measures to prevent further corruption [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u446	Comrade Rockhead, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u447	in this term of office. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u448	We're voting on Peace in the Hall! [[...]] We vote on the amendment to the proposal for a first decision. We're voting! Order! I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a vote! You raised your hand in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u449	Can you please explain whether we are voting on the amendment or on the decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u450	You've raised your hand in time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u451	No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-31-SDZ3-Izredna-46.ana.u452	I made it clear, it's okay. I'd rather do it twice than never. I have already explained, once again, my colleague Kavčič, that we will first vote on the amendment to the proposal for a first decision and on the first decision, then on the amendment to the second decision and on the second decision and on the amendment to the third decision and on the third decision. The National Assembly will recall that I have already explained this before the vote, but it is no big deal. We will now vote on the amendment to the proposal for a first decision. Can we make a decision? Please vote. There's 60, 12 for, 48 against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 48.]] This amendment has not been adopted. We can decide on the first proposal proposed by the national assembly by the competent working body. We decide on the first decision or decision under order number 1. Do I have to read the decision? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the decision under order number one. 59 in attendance, 48 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] The decision is adopted. We now have an amendment to the proposal for a second decision. It is also submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. It's the same content. First we'll decide on the amendment, then we'll decide on the decision. I warn you again, first about the amendment then about the decision. We're voting on the amendment. 60 is present, 14 is present, 46 is present. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are now deciding on the proposal proposed to the National Assembly by the Committee on Internal Policy, under order number 2. We're voting. 57 present, 47 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. Finally, we decide on the amendment to the proposal for a third decision and then on the third decision. First, on the amendment to the proposal for a third decision. We're voting. 59 present, 14 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment was not accepted. Thus, at the end of the day, we will also decide on the proposal for a decision under order number 3. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 46 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has adopted the proposed conclusions. I conclude this agenda item and the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice day.
