ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u1	We'll wait a minute for the report to come to the table and then we'll start the session. Please. Dear colleagues! Can you please take your seats? As you can see, I'm not in a hurry to get started, because I'd like to have expert reports distributed to the table as soon as possible. Otherwise, I don't think there should be an obstacle to us not to start work unless someone objects. Reports will be distributed in the course of the debate. I'm starting the 45th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I have invoked it pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend today due to their other obligations. These are colleagues: Beumann, Bozič, Čebulj, Juban, Horvat, Janc, Komljanec, Kramberger, Lenko, Pukšič, Weber and from the 16th hour onwards colleague Kontic, also colleague Gračner. From 17th onwards, colleague Diaci and 15th hour colleague Brenčič. We are moving on to the agenda. Once we have adopted the agenda, I would like to give one notice to the assembly of the meeting, following the adjournment of the meeting of today's College. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal and enlargement. Can the National Assembly decide on such a agenda? First of all, please see if the voting devices are in order. I even think there's a little less of us in the hall than we should be, so I have to ask all my colleagues and colleagues again to come to the hall. Please, now on the "display" shows that there are 45 of us, that's not enough to start the session. Colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, from the offices, please, if you could come to the National Assembly to adopt the agenda and start the meeting. Well, according to the cards put in the voting machines, we are now enough to adopt the agenda, of course, if we are all paying attention. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Can you all take your seats? We will decide on the agenda as you received by reference. We're voting. Please gather, we vote on the adoption of the agenda. It will be necessary to wait for some of the colleagues and colleagues to join the large plenary hall. I don't think it's a political problem right now, it's purely technical. Colleagues and colleagues are still preparing for the start of the meeting. Excuse me? Yeah, the board, I know, they're in session, and it's got to finish the job. As I say, it is a technical problem, not a political one, which is still better. We'll wait a while. Please be so kind and your colleagues are coming. [[...]] Now I think we've had enough. Once again, I welcome everything, especially the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers. We'll decide on the agenda. We're voting. The agenda is adopted. 53 present, 45 for and none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, let me tell you the following. The joint debate on the items on today's agenda is expected to take 16 hours and 16 minutes. When we talked to the college a little earlier about setting a time limit, we came across questions raised by the two parliamentary groups. To the SDS and NSIs wishing to extend time by 65 or 25 minutes at two points. The College found that the proposal for an agreement was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and was adopted as such, but - and I would like to say this at the outset - as President or my colleagues, as President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, put forward the proposal to the National Assembly to extend the debate by 1 hour if colleagues and colleagues felt that not everything they wanted to say was said in this discussion. This is a compromise that allows us, despite the extensive working time, to be extended if this is to be done. So, whether, in the event that I will lead the meeting or the Vice-President or the Vice-President, the agenda items will ultimately ask whether the discussion has been exhausted. If not, a proposal to extend working time by 1 hour. This is what I think is the solution that will enable us to deal with the agenda without discussing the limitation of time. We're starting one. TIME OF DAY - this will take 5 hours and 15 minutes - THE PRIORITIES OF SLOVENIA IN THE AREA OF EUROPEAN MATTERS IN 2004 AND THE PRIORITIES OF SLOVENIA FOR WORK IN THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE YEAR 2004. The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Prime Minister to further explain the proposal. Would you like a word, Prime Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, the esteemed High Council! On 1 May this year, Slovenia became a full member of the European Union and thus gained the right to co-decision in the decision-making of the European Union and the co-forming of European policies. Up to now, adapting to European rules complements the new status with the active creation of rules and policies at European level. Slovenia is becoming the subject of European rules. In doing so, clear and realistic priorities and priorities and a rapid response to nationally coordinated views are essential for the effective representation and enforcement of national interests. To this end, the government has prepared the two materials ahead of you today and, as part of our efforts to make action as transparent as possible in the European Union, we believe that the wider Slovenian public needs to be informed of these tasks. The document 'Priorities of Slovenia in the field of European affairs in 2004', which I believe you will accept today in the form of a declaration, sets out Slovenia's general political priorities for action in the European Union and related tasks at home. The priorities ahead of you today take into account the annual and multiannual work programmes of the institutions of the European Union and the 2004 work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the programme for effective entry into the European Union and the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia from 2001 to 2006. With this, we have combined our key objectives and tasks with the European Union's development challenges, which lie ahead of us in the trends of modern globalisation. Slovenia has started to operate in a new environment on 1 May and must re-examine its strategic position in the context of membership in the European Union and the wider international environment. The key development challenges ahead of us are undoubtedly globalisation, active action in the international community, knowledge-based society, long-lived society and, of course, the management of complex societies. To this end, the government is finalising the document "The Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, the Challenges of the Future", which covers the first decade of our membership in the European Union. The document presents the main development challenges of the modern world and gives a general development concept and vision of Slovenia by 2014. The main strategic objective of Slovenia is to exceed the European Union's average development level within ten years and to be one of the most developed and successful members of the European Union. The programming work identifies key development problems by area, sets basic development objectives and identifies long-term orientations and short-term measures to implement this strategy. The core areas of action include: education and education system, human capital, labour market and labour relations of research, innovation and technology, economy, regional and spatial development, environmental protection, social aspects of development, national identity and culture, the effective state and functioning of Slovenia in the international community and the European Union. The document "The Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and the Challenges of the Future" will be presented by the government for a broad public debate in which representatives of civil society, NGOs, economies and social partners will be able to participate. Together, we can do more for Slovenia, especially for our citizens and citizens. Your Honor! The priorities of Slovenian action in the European Union, as defined today, take into account the important changes that are taking place in the European Union this year. We have European elections ahead, a new European Parliament will be elected and a new European Commission will be appointed. Some Amsterdam treaties will be in force. In the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference, the Irish Presidency is continuing consultations on reaching a compromise on the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. We, too, have taken part in this debate, and in the coming days we look forward to a visit by the President-in-Office of the European Union and, of course, we will make our contribution to the reflections on the future Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. The Union's priority area of action this year will also be the successful inclusion of ten new members in the Union's functioning, as well as the adaptation to the functioning of the enlarged Union. The enlargement process with Bulgaria and Romania will continue. Important decisions will be taken on further enlargement, on the start of negotiations with Turkey, and at one of the meetings in 2004 the European Council will discuss the possibility of granting candidate status and starting negotiations with Croatia. One of the most important processes in the next two years has started with the publication of the Commission's Communication on the next financial perspective in February. This is a negotiation for the adoption of a financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. Particular attention will be paid in 2004 to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which aims to make the Union the most dynamic, competitive and knowledge-based economy in the world in 2010. At the last meeting of the European Council, we have concluded together that these objectives have not been met and that more needs to be done to bring the European Union closer to the goals it has set in the Lisbon Strategy. In the area of justice and home affairs, we will take steps to establish the European Union as an area of security, freedom and justice. Particular attention will be paid to the implementation of the Action Plan against Terrorism. This is also one of the key tasks of the Union in the field of external relations, together with the implementation of the European Security Strategy. We will also find activities related to the Western Balkans particularly interesting. However, it is important to draw attention to the three complex and interrelated important processes and dilemmas that are taking place in the European Union 25, which will carefully define the future not only of us members but also of those who wish to meet the necessary conditions as soon as possible and to become members of the family of European countries. The dilemmas are institutional, financial and developmental. The adoption of the Constitutional Treaty and the financial perspective for the period beyond 2006 are important development steps of the Union, which will significantly determine and enable the further enlargement process. In this respect, they also represent a responsibility for the future. The possible failure of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty or the adoption of a financial perspective, which will allow for the limited implementation of the Union's tasks in the future, would be a poor signal, both for the Union and for the global actor in the international community, as well as a negative message to those carrying out the necessary economic, political and social reforms with the aim of becoming part of the United Europe as soon as possible. This would be a sign that enlargement fatigue has prevailed and, above all, a questionable sign for the countries of South-Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans in their European perspectives, which would undoubtedly also have an impact on the stability of the area. The peace, stability and prosperity of Europe are only possible in the processes of European integration and it is up to us members of the European Union to make this possible. It will be necessary to act effectively, wisely and with a vision of a common Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the above activities and processes in the Union, we need to define the priorities of our action in the field of European affairs in 2004. Undoubtedly, it is a priority to complete the tasks remaining for us to effectively integrate into the European Union and to further expand the European Union. We must continue the process of adapting the Slovenian acquis and actively engage in decision-making on European Union legislation and other acts. The entry into the ERM 2 exchange rate mechanism by the end of 2004 is also important for effective action in the Union, thus allowing for the adoption of the euro in early 2007. The government is thus already finalising a programme to bring the euro area closer to the so-called convergence programme. Together with the Bank of Slovenia, we will implement, in agreement with the social partners, measures to further de-indexise, measures to gradually reduce the structural public deficit and measures to reduce inflation in the policy of regulated prices, interest rates and tax policies. The active implementation of structural reforms must, of course, also influence the creation of a higher level of competitiveness where it has not yet been established to a sufficient extent. In addition to the effective use of funds from cohesion policy funds and other European funds, effective action within the European Union will also require effective control of the external borders of the European Union, taking into account the standards of Schengen law, the rule of law and the system. In the control of the external border and in the implementation of asylum and immigration policy, Slovenia will actively seek to share burdens and to make effective use of the Schengen financial resource. We will actively seek to establish a European Agency for the Management and Cooperation of the External Borders and to maintain the regime with neighbouring Croatia as far as possible. The establishment of the Schengen border must not constitute a barrier to cooperation with our neighbours and the region, but rather a new opportunity for cooperation and initiatives to expand the area of security and prosperity. That is why, with regard to the further enlargement of the European Union, we feel that the enlargement process will not be completed by the inclusion of ten new members. In addition to political support, we will also offer countries whose objectives are to join the European Union the continuation of bilateral, technical and assistance under the common European programmes. Activities for effective action in the European Union are a prerequisite for us to be active and successful in the negotiations under the next financial perspective 2007/2013. This is one of the key Slovenian priorities in the 2004/05 period. The outcome of the negotiations, which will set out the basic framework for European policies in the future, will have a significant impact on Slovenia's net financial situation in the European Union. We are committed to the strictness of the budget of the European Union, but we are aware that, at the time of the next financial perspective, new tasks, such as the implementation of the Lisbon strategy, enlargement, agreement on a constitutional treaty, are before the European Union. Therefore, we also advocate that the European Union adapt the structure of its budgetary expenditure and support these substantive objectives with appropriate funding. These objectives include sustainable economic growth, food security, sustainable agricultural development, cohesion, further enlargement, the objectives of freedom and security and the common foreign policy. In negotiating the next financial perspective, Slovenia must take into account its own development priorities, which largely follow the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, in particular the guidelines set out in the draft development strategy for Slovenia 2007/2013 and other development documents. The negotiations on the next financial perspective must also be carried out at European level with a view to increasing the absorption of European funds over the next financial period of the European Union. This includes an appropriate increase in administrative capacity, drawing capacity and appropriate restructuring of the domestic budget and public finances. Slovenia will have to seek first solutions in the latter, which will not aggravate its public-financial position. These preparations will provide administrative and financial conditions for the effective use of funds. In 2004, Slovenia will focus on the further implementation of the necessary reforms to implement the Lisbon Strategy and its objectives. Measures to achieve long-term, stable economic growth must focus on increasing investment, competitiveness and employment in 2004 and in the coming years by promoting productivity and key growth factors, fostering structural reforms and promoting entrepreneurship and innovation. Sustainable development, including environmental protection, should be promoted and the flexibility and efficiency of labour markets should be achieved and jobs should be given new and better quality. Ageing and investing in human capital are one of the major challenges. In the area of common foreign, security and defence policy, among other things, we will give special attention to policy towards the Western Balkans. We must not allow the enlarged Union to close itself behind the walls of a safe wall, so that only its members can enjoy high political, economic and security standards. The stability of South-Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans is in our vital interest. Europe and the European Union can only be safe if all European countries are involved in the development, prosperity, security and stability processes. We must therefore actively participate in the technical and development assistance of the regions and in all crisis management operations of the European Union in this area. The area of stability and security can only be expanded by the European Union starting to extend its standards to its new, future members. We must help these countries to be able to adopt established standards on their way to the European Union as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, before you is a declaration identifying areas of priority for the functioning of our country in the European Union. Its constituents are also the priorities that we will carry out at home and in the world of the European Union. Our priorities are clear. The effective integration of Slovenia into the European Union, the takeover of the euro, the establishment of the external borders of the European Union and the ability to draw funds from cohesion and structural funds. A key priority in this regard is the successful negotiations for the next financial perspective 2007-2013, as well as the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The task is considerable, but I believe that, in a successful cooperation between the government and the national assembly, we will be able to successfully bring them together for the benefit and well-being of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I will now give the floor to Minister Ciccle, the Minister without a director, who is responsible for European affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, Prime Minister, colleague Minister, colleague Minister, dear guests! Since 1 May this year, Slovenia has been involved in decision-making processes in the European Union and in co-forming European policies. Since it is crucial to establish clear and realistic priorities for the effective representation of Slovenia's interests, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has identified the priorities and activities of Slovenia in the framework of cooperation in the European Union and the European Council in 2004. Priorities should primarily be an important guide and an incentive for the timely preparation of national, at home in Slovenia, harmonised views on legislative proposals in the process in the institutions of the European Union. The setting of priorities is directly linked to the transition of Slovenia from the period of the adoption of the European acquis to the period of membership and thus to active cooperation in the coming legal order of the European Union. The transition to the level of active observers taken over by Slovenia following the signing of the 2003 Accession Treaty was expected to be challenging, as it required different organisation and coordination of work, faster response and more self-initiative compared to the previous period. The role of the observer has further strengthened the conviction that Slovenia will have to focus on those decision-making processes where it has a strong interest. To this end, it should serve as an important guide for Slovenia's participation in the European Union. As such, the material will be complemented and upgraded as necessary. Each year, similar material will be prepared, taking into account the legislative programme and the political priorities of the entire European Union and the Republic of Slovenia in it. In this context, the material addresses priorities within the four pillars. An introductory set on the European Union in 2004 and the challenges of the European Union in this year and in the coming years is presented. The main part of the document presents the tasks and activities related to legislative proposals related to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy based on the economic, social and environmental pillar. The tasks related to the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union are then presented, and not least the tasks and activities presented in the field of external relations of the European Union. The first set of priorities was "the European Union in 2004 and its future challenges". As the Prime Minister has said, this set includes the issue of an intergovernmental conference and institutional reform, the completion and future enlargement and preparations for the next financial perspective. Slovenia will actively support the successful implementation of important European Union development processes. Within this framework, Slovenia will support the process of further enlargement of the European Union and will be ready to develop bilateral assistance and thus contribute its share to the assistance of the European programmes to all countries whose aim is membership in the European Union. Negotiations on the next financial perspective will set a framework for European policies in the coming years. It was said that the net financial position of Slovenia vis-à-vis the European budget for the period 2007-2013 also depends on the content of this framework and on the successful negotiations. It is therefore important to define the relevant content of the programmes under the new financial perspective and Slovenia will therefore defend the already defined priorities in the negotiations, as set out in the October 2003 "Individual guidance to the new financial perspective" document and in the document "The position of the European Commission's communication on the next financial perspective" of February 2004. Slovenia will thus support the Commission's position on restructuring funds for the common agricultural policy towards new challenges related to the production of healthy food and the protection of human health, while at the same time supporting the increase in rural development funds, Slovenia believes that cohesion policy should remain a fundamental instrument for the achievement of the principle of solidarity during the next financial perspective. We therefore agree with the Commission's proposal in this area, and we will in particular advocate that geographical areas which will lose eligibility status due to the enlargement of the European Union itself, due to the so-called statistical impact, should have access in the next financial perspective to a greater level of financial resources of the European Union for structural purposes than those areas which have lost their eligibility status due to the level of their economic development achieved. We will also support the increase in resources aimed at strengthening the role of the European Union as a global partner and will endeavour in the negotiations to ensure that the appropriate amount of funding provided for the protection of the European Union's common external border remains adequate and that the substantive objective of the enlargement of the European Union remains financially sound. The second set of priorities is related to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, where the European Union, at its Lisbon meeting in March 2003, has set the goal of becoming by 2010 the most dynamic, competitive and sustainable knowledge-based economy in the world, which will enjoy full employment and economic and social cohesion. This is an extremely ambitious objective, and it should therefore be stressed that the Lisbon Strategy covers or rounds most European policies and is based on three pillars: economic, social and environmental. As part of the priorities for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, particular attention is paid, for the first time, to the coordination of European policies, financial services and taxation. Secondly, to further strengthen the effectiveness of internal markets and economic reforms and for the third time, to consolidate the social dimension in the enlarged Union and, last but not least, to ensure sustainable development and kehosia policy. In strengthening the effectiveness of internal markets, Slovenia will support measures aimed at making the economy more efficient and, in this regard, on individual European policies, Slovenia believes that more attention will have to be paid to creating companies with a friendly environment. In the internal market for services, Slovenia, as well as the other members, will develop a dynamic and flexible policy and mechanisms to promote the development of new services, especially those with high added value. Research, knowledge and innovation will develop a national research and development programme to strengthen the degree of science linking to the economy, flow and use of knowledge. For telecommunications, the information society Slovenia will actively participate in the E-Europe 2005 information company development action plan. Similarly, in transport, we will strive to implement the priorities linked to the new Trans European Network Transport Guidelines and in the field of energy, nuclear safety, chemicals policies, company law, consumer protection and customs union, representing all those positions which, of course, mean for Slovenia to strengthen its internal economic power. In addition to strengthening internal markets as an element of enhancing the competitiveness of the European Union, the priorities of strengthening the social dimension in the enlarged European Union and ensuring sustainable development must be highlighted. With regard to both areas, the European Union programme sets out a number of directives and documents, defining the basic starting points. If this concludes the presentation of the first, central first two parts as well as the central part of the document, allow me to move on to the third set, this is the establishment of the European Union as an area of freedom of security and justice. In this segment, we highlight the priorities of asylum and immigration, the areas of police and judicial action, the areas of judicial cooperation in civil matters, as well as the external aspects of all activities related thereto. The last set of priorities discusses activities in the field of external relations. And as the Prime Minister has presented, there are identified priorities that will help the European Union effectively assume its share of responsibility for the economic and security-political situation, both in the wider region and in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Following the entry into the European Union, the priorities for working in the Council of the European Union in 2004 are formally the first and therefore a pioneer document. It defines the cooperation of Slovenia by the stages of the drafting and adoption of new legislative acts. We believe that with such and similar documents and debate on them we are getting a guide for Slovenia's functioning in the European Union, so that we can ensure that our cooperation is coordinated and transparent. The proposals and responses to the initiative of the other partners in the European and legislative processes are prepared in time. Slovenia will therefore be able to better exercise its interests within the European Union of 25 Member States by defining priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Minister Squeakle. I now give the final floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, colleague, colleague! I will briefly present the external policy part of the priority in the field of European affairs. With the entry into the European Union, as has already been said, there are some changes and new emphasis in Slovenian foreign policy, in government, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in diplomacy, and also in the National Assembly. Some priorities are also changing. Above all, there will be no more those who hired us before entering the European Union and NATO. Slovenia is now implementing its foreign policy within the European Union, in the context of the so-called common foreign and security policy. In the European Union, Slovenia is co-forming a common foreign and security policy. This is not a single policy, but a common policy, because the members of the European Union are sovereign in this area and because there is still a debate in the European Union on possible restrictions, the necessity of a common and even unified performance. Slovenia participates in this respect in the world of permanent representatives, in the world of general and foreign affairs, in the European Council and other institutions of the European Union. A similar but broader and far-reaching debate is taking place in multilateral organisations involving European and other countries. Here I am referring to the organisation of the United Nations and to the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe, where Slovenia is awaiting a major task next year, for which we are already preparing this year. Nevertheless, Slovenia continues to pursue a separate policy in those areas that are particularly important to it. For example, it will be an important priority to deal with some open issues with Croatia, and above all we will try to influence the stabilisation of the situation in South-Eastern Europe, the Mediterranean and the countries of the new neighbourhood of the European Union. We will support the Europeanisation of the Western Balkans and, above all, we will strive to bring Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina as close as possible to the European Union as possible. However, engagement in these areas is not only our own task or duty, but rather the expectation of other members of the European Union and, for example, the entire Community of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Of course, we will also engage in relations with the Russian Federation and will strive to improve relations in the Euro-Atlantic community. For Slovenia, a political and economically important South-Eastern Europe is. Involvement in various political and economic projects in South-Eastern Europe also plays an important role in diplomacy and especially in the policy we are planning this year, namely economic diplomacy. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that the Western Balkans are still an area of instability and a relatively high risk. It provides a variety of dangerous flows related to organised crime, weapons, various extreme and radical movements and so on. Members of the European Union expect Slovenia to participate in planning and implementing a common policy in Serbia, Montenegro and, for example, Kosovo. In cooperation with our and foreign experts, we are preparing appropriate discussions, plans and scenarios in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Slovenia participates in European and global policy to the best of its ability. As a member of the European Union, new opportunities and new challenges are opening up, particularly new acquisitions for citizens, who, as from 1 May, are also available to consular and other points or services of the Member States or to the European Commission. The final part of the debate and decision on the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union awaits us - I conclude. Since the convention, the National Assembly and the Government have been involved, many of them have attended by individuals, civil society organisations and so on. In the final part of the constitutional activities at the intergovernmental conference, Slovenia will be represented by well-known positions endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Policy or the Commission on European Affairs. Of course, we want the interest of the community to be strengthened in the European Union, the so-called European spirit, but we will continue to take care of Slovenian national interests, as the European Union is not yet entirely supranational, but is, above all, an interstate organisation. I think we can be proud of what we have achieved, but life and work continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. I now give the floor to the President of the Slovenian work of the Association Parliamentary Committee, colleague Roman Jakić, to present the report. I'll put my word behind him to the chairman of the commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. The Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee considered at its 1st urgent meeting, pursuant to Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union on 10.5.2004, the "Priorities of Slovenia in the field of European affairs in 2004" and the document "Priorities of Slovenia for work in the Council of the European Union in 2004" which, pursuant to Article 13 of the Act, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The opening presentation of both materials was submitted by mag. Milan Martin Cvikl, Minister in charge of European Affairs, who initially stressed that the works are complementary, as the priorities of Slovenia in the EU are the basis for the debate in the National Assembly on the political orientations for Slovenia's functioning in the EU in 2004, in accordance with Article 13 of the Law. The broader priorities of Slovenia for work in the world, however, are an upgrade to general policy orientations and are more detailed in setting priorities in specific areas. We have heard further details of the key priorities for Slovenia's operations, namely an effective approach to the EU and further enlargement of the EU, the next financial perspective 2007 to 2013, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the policy towards the Western Balkans region towards the new neighbourhood. Following the exchange of views and the reply of the Minister, the members and members of the Slovenian Part of the Association Parliamentary Committee supported both documents by leaving the issue of the EU's common security and external policy and related activities of the Republic of Slovenia to the definition of the Committee on Foreign Policy as the competent working body in this area. Two other decisions have been taken since the decision is based on the position of the Republic of Slovenia to enter into operation in the EU institutions this year, and the National Assembly proposes to adopt these views in the form of a declaration, as is the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the handling of EU cases. And the second decision is, where material is concerned, Slovenia's priorities for work in the EU world in 2004, as this material represents an upgrade of the declaration and contains, by area, the starting points of the Republic of Slovenia to individual EU affairs in relation to the operational programme of work of the Council in the summer of 2004 and the multiannual strategic programme for 2004 to 2006 of the European Council and the legislative and work programme of the European Commission for 2004, thereby making a meaningful addition to the declaration and together with it represents the starting points for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in accordance with Article 13 and Article 5(2) of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. It is therefore proposed to constitute an integral part of it in the form of an annex. Of course, as chairman, I would like, of course, to invite colleagues and colleagues to follow these decisions, which were adopted on the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee as the parent body, which was sitting together with the European Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I will now give the floor to the President of the European Affairs Commission. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u10	I would like, Mr President, to ask whether the college has otherwise concluded on the order of the debaters as it is here in the announcement on the agenda as we received it on the table? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u11	No, it wasn't. Madam Secretary-General informed me that the meeting was chaired by my colleague, Roman Jakič, and that she therefore has the opportunity to get the first word. That's what I did. I don't think it's any big deal. I will now give my colleague Peterlet, without any reservations, and he will also receive the word Jelko Kacin, as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister, colleague and colleague! I have to politely protest against the kind of kiss that's going on here. Madam Secretary-General, this house is not an asset. And I'm not interested in her interpretations here, Mr. President. In the report you received on the table, it says who will report, the college has set an order and I have no interest in whispering to Mrs General, and it cannot be for you and for us meticulously. Whoever chaired this meeting is not the subject of discussion here, but we are talking about a report on the session that we have discussed, who will report on it. And it cannot be determined against the college which has determined the sequence of performances of this house in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u13	I apologize for that, Comrade Peterle. And this time that you've spent now, I won't count at the time of your performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u14	This is not how I want to conclude my mandate in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u15	Please. Please, buddy Jakich. I don't think it's a complication worth a lot of attention, but if it is, I apologize. Please, buddy Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u16	I also apologize to my colleague Peterlet. In fact, there was also, in principle, someone who is not at the meeting cannot give a report, but I agree that he has to get the word, so I went to him and asked him how. It was explained that everyone would be given five minutes and, of course, I would like to protect the secretary-general in this case, according to some logic, given that I attended the meeting by the European Affairs Commission and, of course, by my colleague Barovic, not by my colleague Peterle, that there would be no misunderstanding that we would not argue at the point where we were all united.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u17	Okay. Comrade Peterle, may I still invite you to the speaker's stage? I think that when I apologized to you for my actions, I did what I thought was right and please, if you want my word, I'll give it to you. Would you like a word, Comrade Peterle?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u18	President, I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members. As far as the conclusions are concerned, they have been presented, but also this, although I would say politeness, but we cannot do this at home. If the college has set the order, if it has been decided on the committee, how to report it, then it can't be done domestically, we're going here, and I say that, and I say that, that's not the deal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u19	My friend Peterle, I'm sorry, I thought you and your colleague Roman Jakic were in line for this. Obviously, I thought wrong, and so I apologize, I always stick to the agenda and order, it's not such a complication to give him a lot of attention. I'll be much more careful about that next time. I apologize to you and my colleague Jakic for thinking that you agreed to do so. Now he has the word of his colleague Jelko Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u20	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, government representatives or representatives of the public! The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the documents submitted yesterday and decided to complete these documents. I would like to contribute to the most rational consideration of this point, so I would like to draw attention in my contribution or report to the fact that the Committee on Foreign Policy has focused on the part of the documents relating to the common foreign, defence and security policy. That is why we have extended the chapter and have fully amended it. In the report you have on your desks, this amendment is now coordinated and widely distributed. What I would like to stress is the fact that we have spoken about foreign and security policy in the text so far, and we have added a defence policy that is the result of coordination and the results achieved in the area of supposedly common foreign and security policy. Secondly, what I would like to stress is our insistence on the fact that, in the fact that we are the only successor in the framework of the former Yugoslavia, which is now a full member of the European Union, we bear responsibility and have the opportunity to remind ourselves again and again of other Western Balkan candidate countries. That is why we have also included in the amendment the emphasis on the Republic of Macedonia, and it is unlikely that the decision on the European Council would be taken this year, and we feel that there are many reasons why we should talk about it. In the work of the Council, the Republic of Slovenia must draw attention to the fact that the Republic of Macedonia has also submitted an application for entry into the European Union and must also be supported in these efforts. In particular, I would like to stress what I regularly reiterate is that we are the only Member State of the European Union to address the Republic of Macedonia as it has declared itself. For us, it's the Republic of Macedonia, everyone else recognizes it under different names. At the same time, I think it is important to note that, in the light of our role in the Western Balkans, it is also appropriate to point out the need to limit the availability of, or trade in, personal weapons, or as is commonly called in English, small arms. This weapon is in this area, in the region of the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia so far, and in particular in the last ten, fifteen years it has caused far the most distress and control of these weapons is one of the steps that makes our immediate neighbourhood much more stable, much more predictable, much more peaceful and, above all, much more qualitative. At the same time, because of its excellent relations with the Palestinian community, the European Union cannot avoid responsibility and must actively seek solutions to overcome the crisis in the Middle East. Without the active role of the European Union on the part of the Palestinians, without the active role of the United States on the side of Israel, without the framework provided by the United Nations Organization, which established the State of Israel after World War II and without the participation of other countries that are part of this Quartet, this is the Russian Federation, it is difficult to expect any progress in this area. And Slovenia, as a new member of the European Union and as a new member of NATO, has the opportunity and opportunity to do so. I would therefore like to conclude by stressing that we have also pointed out the need for Slovenia in the European Union to extend its support for the enlargement of NATO to all the countries of the Western Balkans, saying, to all the other successors of the former Yugoslavia and neighbouring Albania. This seems to us to be a contribution that needs to be underlined and for which the Republic of Slovenia has to continue and, in particular, this year at every opportunity, to warn and cast its vote. This is simply expected of us here, in Zagreb, Sarajevo, Belgrade, Skopje, as well as in Tirana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Before I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members, let me once again ensure that I have no particular biased interest in whom, when and why I give my word. If there's a slip, I apologize in advance, and that's possible. Otherwise, I am leading the matter as it is prepared with a reference, i.e. the decision of the college or the scenario. You can also see that sometimes I give someone more than a second to finish the thought. I'm trying to be reasonable, so the discussion is going on normally. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kebrich, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear High Council! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, I will do what we have received as material. Now that the time of euphoria has passed with our entry into the European Union on 1 May, we have sobered ourselves and how we are thoroughly studying the situation that is taking place with the entry into the European Union for Slovenia, as well as on the basis of our political programme represented by our party. That is why we have closely monitored and examined the Government's submissions. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia have already participated in all three working bodies, both in the Committee on Foreign Policy and in the EU Association Committee and also in the European Affairs Commission. We also want to participate in the future in these two parent work bodies, which will prepare and study the materials that the government and our representatives in the European Parliament should specifically represent. For all of us, all the points are equally important, but we are giving more emphasis, in particular, to points such as taxation, strengthening the social dimension in the enlarged Union, employment, education, training not only for young people, but also for older people who need retraining, safety and health at work, in order to make as few persons with disabilities as possible, as healthy and capable, especially workers' rights from working relationships and social security and health. These are, for us, the most important things exposed to us, for which we will strive to work constructively and to contribute to the best possible position of our government, which is to be represented in the European Union. For we believe that constructive and creative work is the basis of our actions of Members, representatives of those citizens, not only those who elected us, but all. That is why I have allowed myself to highlight in particular the areas that I have outlined, which are still important to us. The starting points, such as those of our ministers, will be represented at special ministerial conferences, because, as yesterday, 11th, the Finance Minister of Marble is now acting at this meeting with the views of the Government and for these positions we have a particular emphasis and we are working with our constructive work and creative cooperation on all these not only the home bodies, but also on those working bodies that have been interested in a particular area. Once again, I repeat that we will work equally constructively in the future so that Slovenia, with its views, which must be aligned with the priorities of the European Union, puts forward what is most important to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u23	Thank you. I invite my colleague Janez Podobnik to take the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Allow me to say in the introduction the experience I have had as an observer in the European Parliament and now as a formal MEP. In the European Parliament, it never happens that an editorial leaves the point before it ends. I've never seen that before. But if he knows in advance that he is busy, he shall send his deputy, and he shall be present at the meeting from the beginning to the end of the agenda. This is a European practice which, in my opinion, will have to be more enforced, and therefore the Slovenian Government will also take into account. Of course, the Prime Minister may have other obligations, and then he may authorize the Minister to be the lead instigator. It's just an introduction. With regard to the nature of the declaration that we are accepting today, it is necessary to say that the decision to be political is that the positions adopted by the National Assembly on the political guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the coming period in the form of a declaration will be premature and will most likely be written by the Parliament in the coming years by the National Assembly in the form of a declaration. The Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union states that at least once a year the National Assembly shall discuss the situation in the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the basis of the opening presentation by the Prime Minister, and shall then adopt its position. The preliminary provision states: "Before 1 May 2004, the National Assembly shall hold a debate and adopt a position on the political guidelines for the start of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions." Why did I start so formalistically? Since we have been in the Group of Members asking ourselves over time what is the formal obligation of this declaration, this document. It is, of great importance, since Article 6 of this Law states: "In the framework of the positions of the National Assembly, as set out in paragraph 2 of the previous Article, it shall discuss and take up the views of the Republic of Slovenia, the working body responsible for European affairs, and the external and security policy body responsible for foreign policy. This is said to be the framework, the contents of this declaration will be binding on both working bodies by the next term, until the next time the National Assembly, and at least once a year, has adopted a new declaration on this content. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed declaration. The new emphasis in Slovenia's foreign policy, which is enshrined in this document, is, in our view, the following: "Slovenia has very intense political and economic relations with the countries of the Western Balkans. Her diplomatic and political engagement in the region will open up new opportunities in the economic field" - we stress this, i.e. the economic area - "and contribute to the stabilisation of the region and thus to the security of Slovenian investments in the region". This is also our national interest and it is right that we have written this in this declaration. The second area, the second segment, which is very important in our view, is the segment which is written in the declaration in Article 2, namely the negotiation of a constitutional treaty for Europe or the continuation of an intergovernmental conference. From a political point of view as well as a decision for the future, in our view, the decision and negotiation of a constitutional treaty for Europe is one of the key political decisions facing Europe 25. There is one single paragraph to this declaration and, of course, there is no clear position in this declaration, which is binding on Slovenia, and of course in this direction, what will happen next in the intergovernmental conference on some sensitive but still open issues. In fact, we are giving clearly completely free hands here to conclude some compromises. The third area, which we think is very important, is also very important for the Slovenian economy and the future, and is an area called 'The introduction of the euro'. A very important area, and as it will be binding on Slovenian policy, the government, the Slovenian economy, will be bound by the social partners, I would like to quote it: "In accordance with a programme that requires the restrictive functioning of economic policies, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia will take and implement measures to further de-indexise in agreement with the social partners. Measures to gradually reduce the structural public deficit and measures to reduce inflation in regulated price, interest rate and tax policies. With the active implementation of structural reforms, the government will also have an impact on the establishment of competition in sectors where it is not yet sufficiently lacking." This is a policy of declaration which will be binding on the government and must find its image in all the laws and decisions that will be adopted from today on different levels of Slovenian policy. The third area is an important area - the Commission's Communication on the next financial perspective, in particular the area of cohesion policy. The declaration states that Slovenia therefore first supports the Commission's communication on the restructuring of the common agricultural policy towards new challenges related to the production of healthy food and the protection of human health while at the same time supporting the increase in rural development funds. The following is a sentence which is somewhat unclear that Slovenia agrees with the Commission's proposal in the area of cohesion policy. But this Commission proposal in the area of cohesion policy speaks of - what? Here I would like to highlight what my colleague, Kebrich, mentioned earlier. Yesterday there was Minister Dimovski, Dr Dimovski and Dr. Maramor, one at the meeting of EU finance ministers and the other at the Cohesion Forum. In their performances, they both stressed and identified the following. The reduction in Structural Funds should be gradual and equitable for all countries that will exceed 75% of gross domestic product only in the context of enlargement and will no longer be eligible for development aid under the so-called Objective 1. The proposal for a financial perspective does not provide for this equal treatment, but deals specifically with the affected regions of the Member States so far. In our declaration, we say that Slovenia agrees with the Commission's proposal. Unfortunately, however, the Commission's proposal is such - unfortunately so - that the geographical areas that will lose eligibility status due to the enlargement of the EU itself, due to the so-called statistical impact - we insist that, in the next financial perspective, we should have access to a greater volume of financial resources for structural purposes, including those areas that have lost eligibility status, i.e. in the fact that we have entered the EU 25 and not 15. Unfortunately, the Commission's proposal does not talk about this. While we are committed to the declaration - what Dr. Marble and Dr. Dimovski said - but if we record in the declaration that we support the Commission's proposal, which in relation to the statistical effect - and this is mainly the area of the wider urban area near Ljubljana - therefore, about half of Slovenia will be able to affect the statistical effect. And, unfortunately, based on the direction or the message of the commission, it doesn't look good here. And I don't know if it was good that we simply wrote down in our declaration that we agree with the Commission's proposal, and then let's say what we stand for. It's a duality that doesn't seem logical. I would only conclude with the nature of our declaration. As an annex to this declaration and its constituent part - this was the Commission's proposal for European Affairs and the Association Parliamentary Committee - is also the Government's contribution from May 6th "The priorities of Slovenia in the world in 2004". This is a very extensive document, which in some ways has almost the nature of the declaration when it becomes an annexation. Here I would like to highlight one of the areas which are important for the way Slovenian policy works in the 2004 electoral year. In this document, which will be annexed to this declaration of the National Assembly, the following sentence is added: "The strategy for the economic development of Slovenia 2001-2006 will be upgraded by the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which is currently in preparation and which aims to define the vision of the future of Slovenia with a broad social consensus." At this point, I express my expectation that this "wide social consensus" on a document called the "Strategy of the Development of Slovenia" will really be implemented. This is said to include all parliamentary and other political parties in Slovenia and the general public in the preparation of this document, especially when adopted. Above all, it should not happen that the document "The Strategy for the Development of Slovenia" could in fact become the pre-election document of the largest government party or of the government coalition as a whole. If this happens, of course, then this sentence to create this document with a broad social consensus has no weight. I expect that to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. In the light of the introductory debate of the distinguished colleague of the Podobnik, I say that all ministers or ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were invited to attend this item on the agenda, that they were specifically in charge of the introductory interpretation of the Magi. Anton Rop as Prime Minister, Mag. Mr Milan M. Cwickl, Minister without a Resource, responsible for European Affairs, who is empowered and in charge of participating in this item until the end by the Prime Minister. And Dr Dimitrij Rupel as Minister for Foreign Affairs, in order to avoid any further similar inappropriate information. Inadequate information on our part, which we are conducting, you have rightly warned about this. Bogdan Barovic has the floor as the next representative of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr. Minister! If you'll excuse me, I'm going to start with what you, Mr Vice President, have just said. All these conflicts, if that's what we can call them, aren't really at odds. It's about the fact that we've talked about years and years - or years - above all about how it's going to be when we're in Europe. Slovenia is in Europe and, while we are in Europe, we should already have two working bodies. The so-called large committee, which is to be composed of representatives of the Committee on Foreign Policy and European Affairs and, of course, also the Committee on European Affairs, which is to be joined by the Associated Parliamentary Committee. We knew we were going to Europe, but this national council knew that. He knew that he must be prepared, not now, to lay sins upon one another. It's our fault we haven't set up these committees yet. If they were established, there would be a clear order and timetable, how and what to perform. Let's just drop it. Although respected colleagues and colleagues are talking about the declaration, let me say that the two working bodies decided yesterday that the priorities and priorities should become a declaration, but we will still decide today, so too many words about what it is or what it is not, this moment is not a formal legal right to say. In the Slovenian National Party, you know that we have always been Eurosceptic or Eurorealists. We're proud of that. We've given a lot of ideas, thoughts that have benefited from what happened, anyway. And that's what we're gonna do. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party yesterday, as Vice-President of the European Affairs Commission, I made clear our position that it is good to have a document of Slovenia's priority and that the priorities have at all been drafted and that we have them today. Of course, it is logical that quality suffers so quickly, but it can be the quantity that fits. We therefore have every right to draw attention to the specific shortcomings we see in the Slovenian National Party. Above all, colleagues and colleagues, why such concerns as has been said today, policies towards Western Balkan countries, new neighbours, extended connections - concrete support for Slovenia to Croatia - if we still have outstanding issues, unresolved issues and we have unilateral decisions. Let us in the European Union, please be interested in Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! Our country Republic of Slovenia! And the starting points should be Slovenian, without worrying about all the neighbours in which good and bad people live, as well as in Slovenia and everywhere in Slovenia is essential! Not our attitude towards the Western Balkans and the search, now either we are for Romania or we are for Bulgaria or we are for Turkey. I do not think that this is a question that is being asked, which should not have much attention either in priorities or in priorities or in a declaration if we accept it. Yesterday, a meeting of the European Affairs Commission and the Associated Parliamentary Committee was very useful. We have listened to the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which stated that – in particular, I have been paying attention – Slovenia will become the most competitive in the knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. If anyone, then we in the Slovenian National Party want this and support that we show the most competitive in education what we are worth, but a colleague from the competent committee who talks about education and education will tell us what investments and our investments in education are in education; what we do well to achieve this goal. In Slovenia's priorities and priorities, we have noted in the Slovenian National Party that the document does not contain a chapter on guidelines and priorities in the field of external policy of the European Union - or at least sufficiently. We also asked about the definitions or inclusion of Slovenia and Cyprus as priority countries for 2007 in the RM2 system, i.e. in the "Exchange rate mechanisms", where we will or should be users of the euro in Slovenia already in 2007. It sounds very nice and right, but there are some economic categories behind here, among them in the original sense of inflation, which we discussed and asked a lot yesterday, for which Europe requires the State of the Republic of Slovenia to lower and bring to the level needed to be an integral part of the ERM, if we say so. Of course, the way inflation is reduced depends on the country's accession. Today we are witnessing one of the elements that increases this inflation, at least by economic logic, but not by lowering it. I think that the colleagues who buy gasoline, you agree with this and, of course, the energy elements, not just gasoline, are also heating up and a lot of elements. But [[...]] The next question is, the so-called Maastricht criteria, which I think at least those who have sufficiently dealt with the European Union know much, of course, about inflation. In the country of Slovenia, despite our wishes and efforts, we do not have a programme to reduce inflation. In which areas, this is essential, will the country reduce or reduce inflation and what is the time frame in view of the fact that we want to take over the euro in 2007? Of course, allow me to draw your attention, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to a number of other, even more important unresolved issues in the priorities and priorities or the future declaration. Yesterday, I asked the honourable Minister when will the law on the amendments and additions to the asylum law be sent to the parliamentary procedure? Why asylum? Because this law will allow the asylum process not to deal with an asylum application or so-called asylum application - in a foreign country, if it makes it easier for anyone to understand - "and adoptive applications". Why is that a question? It is not, because I am speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. According to the latest data we have, the number of asylum seekers at border crossings in the last days and people arriving in Slovenia are increasing. That's the information we have. That's what this is about. This is because this law is already being applied in the countries of the European Union, of which we are also a member. We demand on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we are talking about this law as soon as possible and that we are also adopting it. In the Slovenian National Party, we are interested in highlighting the foreign policy when we will have the assurance that there are sufficient resources to protect the common external borders of the European Union, on which the external work and this very long work is now Slovenia. If the Slovenians have already decided to join the European Union and have adopted a Schengen border system whenever it is fully in force, we are obliged to do so, whether we agree or not. If we are to do this, we must ensure that all countries at the external borders of the EU are equally valued. This assurance, colleagues and colleagues, you know, is known by our Members who are now in the EU, who know the ministries, and we know that these funds are not available. Slovenia lives and has also lived with third-world countries, if we can call them that or countries that are already outside the EU and to which Slovenia has a different attitude under the protocol required by the EU. But in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that in the economic field, if not elsewhere, this relationship should not now be diametrically opposite. We therefore ask when the adaptation protocols to international treaties with third countries will be concluded, so that foreign trade in Slovenia with third countries will not be disrupted. And I can tell you that these are our ex-neighbors. I'm talking about trade with our former neighbours, but you can also look at what she had, for example, Austria with Slovenia before and after. Of course, some very important issues still need to be included in priorities and priorities. Colleagues and colleagues, from now on in the EU, although I speak as a Euro-realist and Euro-sceptic party on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, there is no longer a policy. There is a combination of the national interest of the State and politics. These are the facts. Why? Germany and France have allowed themselves to exceed the limit of 3% of the gross social product, with a deficit that Europe does not allow. And Europe, as two great countries, left them in peace, when similar events took place in Great Britain, Portugal, and not least, why Italy should not be the same as Germany and France. Why? And you are also - in view of that at all, because it has a very bad economic stand and will exceed 3% - and now immediately Europe demands to punish or use the so-called "early warning", early warning to Italy. Europe has left France and Germany alone for a long time. It doesn't work that way anymore. We're all the same in Europe. Why warn Portugal immediately, because we know that, I will say, almost after the "twining" system that Sweden has researched is poorer than Slovenia. The question of the United Kingdom, which it will have, will not be the only one, a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty. And what would happen if the referendum in Britain were to succeed - it meant that they did not agree with the Constitutional Treaty. What does that mean? These are the problems we have to solve now. And there is no policy here, there must be a single position of this national assembly, a united one, and even if the Slovenian National Party is the only one to oppose some of the positions that, unfortunately, we have not yet talked about in this national assembly, and we will have to. The question of the Netherlands, which requires veto for the adoption of the European budget - what is Slovenia's position? What does it mean if this veto of the Netherlands is preserved or if this veto is maintained? What does this mean, not for the European Union, for Slovenia, because we are in it? These are some questions that the Slovenian National Party, as a Eurorealist and as a Eurosceptic, sees and knows about them, but in the interests of the Slovenian nation, not for the European nation. Here we must have common, united positions and maintain the status of Slovenia. The question that Mr Minister raised well yesterday is the question of Slovenia's desire to remain a net recipient. Well, that's nice, but in my opinion, Mr. Secretary, you're going to fix me, impossible. 75% of gross social product, the European Union average was 100 units, and we had 72 units. Now that we have joined, the ten members who are poorer are no longer 100 units of base, but 90. And if we take the share of Slovenia, it is no longer 72, but on this average, it will be 78 or 80, which means that all countries over 75% become net payers. That's right. That's right. And it is better, colleagues and colleagues, that we accept this reality, that we tell Slovenia and the Slovenians that we agree with it or disagree with it, because this will result from the conclusions of the Council of the European Union, the Ministers of the European Union or, if the parliamentarians have a word that will catch up with us, Slovenia, after 2006. And once again, we are not talking about the policy of throwing sand in our own eyes, telling Slovenians as Slovenia what lies ahead in Europe. And once again, it is right that the priorities are written, it is right that the priorities are written, and it is also right that the declaration be adopted. However, when this declaration is adopted on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, let me say again, let us make it reflect all Slovenians and Slovenians, not Balkan neighbours, not fairy tales to Slovenians, not the wishes of the great countries of the European Union! Let's tell the truth! Better the first truth than the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u27	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by colleague Anton Anderlich. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u28	This meeting could also be referred to as a routine and something that needs to be done; what they had to do or have given themselves to all the countries that joined the European Union on May 1st, but it is more important, if you want, that one of the meetings that actually paves the way, how we will work in Slovenia each year to define ourselves individually to what the Government, which is the negotiator on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, will do, throughout the whole period when the coordination of individual solutions in the European Union will take place, as a national assembly, as appropriate working bodies and so on. This meeting seems even more important to us because, at the beginning of this different period for Slovenia, we need to put ourselves where we want to be; that is, independent, with our views, within the framework of a united Europe and with a fundamental contribution that we believe is important for Slovenia and that it is right to hear and take account of in Europe. Therefore, by becoming a member of the European Union on 1 May Slovenia has taken over all the rights and obligations arising from membership and the adjustment and training process does not undoubtedly end with that date. Slovenia will continue to adapt legislation to the European laundry order in areas where previous periods have been agreed, both in the field of economic monetary union and the Schengen acquis or where it has not yet done what it has done or what it should have done - for example, we also have three laws in today's session of the withdrawal package, which we need to change in order to be harmonised. At the same time - which is even more important - or most importantly, the Republic of Slovenia will participate equally in all those decisions that will be taken in the institutions of the European Union by all members of the European Union. Therefore, it is necessary to define the priority areas of action that the government has also done in its documents and in our opinion what needs to be done at this time, of course this document is not one that can be said historically, but is broken in this work, that what we are going to do is actually now and what we are going to represent will also count, and in the reverse sense it will be necessary to report in the National Assembly on what has been achieved on the basis of these starting points or why some things have been done differently than the Members might expect, but the Members and the Slovenian public on individual arrangements should be in the field of economy, agriculture, wherever they are expected. The documents we accept contain both general policy orientations for action in the European Union and define the tasks and activities that will, in particular, be the priority of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming period, both in the short term and, of course, all there until 2013 on, say, the financial perspective of the European Union and Slovenia's opportunities for equal participation in all programmes financed by the European Union. It is clear that we believe that Slovenia can - and the national assembly within this - contribute to making these decisions and the solutions that the European Union will take, good for all members and, of course, in particular - we simply have to be egotistic here - even for Slovenia as such. Undoubtedly, all the goals set by 2010 when Europe is supposed to be the most competitive in the economy in the world is what is a challenge for Slovenia, and we truly believe this, Slovenia will be among the most successful among all members. And of course, it is clear that Slovenia will still have some advantages in that part of the document that talks about relations - that is, in the foreign policy area of the European Union - when it speaks about relations with the Western Balkans and some neighbours, as it is again true that when we look at these countries and follow them, we have an active policy, we are also pursuing our part of the policy when we are exercising our own interests, which we have already had. We certainly do not think that this is a patronage, a service for Europe, that we will regulate some things as neighbours, but that it is our relationship to still unresolved issues back and, of course, to a better position in the economic or commercial field. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will therefore support both the declaration and, of course, all the accompanying documents on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Aurelio Juri is given the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Finally, if you will allow me, one of the extraordinary meetings of our National Assembly, which should actually serve its purpose, for which we hope in the United List of Social Democrats that it will be able to achieve more consensus and more creative spirit than ever before, and which should be followed by those who listen and watch us, of course, with better feelings, we may be wrong and we will experience something already seen and turbulent, which could also indicate a wide-ranging time, but we want to believe that today will be a meeting of more kind words and a better view of the future in which we have entered full membership in the European Union. We have two important documents before us - longer than an annex, shorter ones, these are priorities - which the government has adopted as soon as we have stepped into this membership, and which define - the first more generally, the second more concretely and operationally - the priorities and tasks of our country and its authorities and institutions in co-forming European policies and within them, taking into account the common European interests in protecting their home or nationals. We are, of course, talking about the priorities and tasks by the end of this year, which, as the first and the first to witness the date of entry, is a reduced year of our European membership most likely required to understand and profile our role within this new, huge and nothing simple family, and to pin down our goals and our wishes as we enter. The United List of Social Democrats supports both the priorities and the attached priorities for work in the world of the European Union, which we understand primarily as a guide and basis, and, of course, the incentive to prepare, in a timely manner, national harmonised views on legislative proposals that are already before the competent institutions of the Union and in which it is still possible to intervene with our interests, as well as those that are yet to be prepared or to come. This is a comprehensive and demanding package of tasks calling for a highly coordinated work of all ministries and government services and for the ongoing monitoring and response of the National Assembly. And if we think about that for the first time before such an assignment - next year it goes to hope that it will be easier - the scale and complexity of the challenge are visible. Without a doubt, all the priorities recorded are included in such a document. And even the order seems appropriate to us. However, we would like to highlight the attention it is being given to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, fully aware that the aim of the European Union by 2010 will be to become the most dynamic, competitive and sustainable, environmentally friendly and knowledge-based economy in the world, which will enjoy full employment with quality jobs and economic and social cohesion, likely to move away for another year. And, of course, the 2010 anniversary isn't real. Perhaps this is why we must pay particular attention to this chapter, because it is assumed that the first effects of entering a new reality by shutting down a number of jobs in our home may lead to a reverse path and may also be a dangerous consideration in the public as to whether we have made the right decision with this membership. The Constitutional Treaty of the Newly Expanded EU, when adopted - in the United List of Social Democrats, we hope that as soon as possible - will be an opportunity for Eurosceptics to rewind their board, especially when they play the treaty through referendums across Europe and in the old Member States as well. The European Council stressed the need for EU members to renew their commitment to the objectives of the Lisbon Employment Strategy and, in this context, to pay attention to four structural objectives: adaptability to the labour market, attracting more people to it, improving the quality of jobs and investing in human capital. At the same time, it is extremely important, adding the European Council, the unity of the labour market to support and enable the free movement of labour. Unfortunately, some of the old members have already heard this recommendation through the restrictions placed on their access to their labour markets and, in our opinion, have made one of the values of integration into a single, economic, political, social space. It's a labor flow. Finally, the very effort to increase the competitiveness of the European economy, namely social growth, has also been boggling. While in principle supporting the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, it is right that Slovenia should focus already this year on continuing to implement the necessary reforms to achieve these objectives, which are in line with the adopted national economic development strategy 2001-2006. At the same time, it should initiate all the necessary activities to ensure that labour market mobility restrictions are at least slightly mitigated by bilateral agreements, in particular with neighbouring partners. We believe that finding such solutions is far more appropriate than acting with an instrument of reciprocity, which should remain, if we wish, only extreme comfort. The text, two more on the last chapter of the priority, is about an external defence policy which, although it meets the concluding part of the document, is no less important than others. In the light of developments on the world stage - I am thinking mainly of the crisis of the Middle East with Iraqi chaos, the offensive of international terrorism and, finally, the dangerous tensions of passion in certain parts of the Western Balkans - is the definition of what foreign security and defence policy the EU should formulate, how important. Experience with the involvement of some Union members alongside the United States of America in the aggression against Iraq and the dissension at that time within the EU is literally calling for a more coordinated and possibly unified approach and on the basis of an active policy of peace and the rejection of a war-based European approach to such crises, and in view of the increasing awareness in the world public that interference in Iraq outside the UN has been missed, following the urgent and decisive contribution of Europe to strengthening the world organisation and the establishment of such an international order and such a transatlantic relationship, which the principles and rules of which even the most powerful power will not be able to break or break. As a member of the European Socialist Party, the Joint List will certainly work very hard in this direction. Finally, if you allow me, about the Western Balkans and how, we believe, it is important that we focus on it and help it get to European standards. It is the stability of the region to which we are bordering and on which relations depend our security and therefore our national interests depend. That's it. We will support the updated text of the priority or declaration in the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u31	Thank you. I now invite my colleague, Alojz Peterlet, to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! The New Slovenia Group wants this debate, which, by the way, is late in the marriage period - since it should be decided in accordance with the law by 1 May, but things were too late for this to happen - would not have been the result of some special time pressure. We agree with those who warn that it is not just an informal debate but a very serious matter. With these decisions today or with our view to what is essential to our policy in the first year of membership, we will also work for our visibility in or against the European space. In this context, we believe that what they jointly proposed or adopted the position of the European Affairs Commission and the Association Parliamentary Joint Meeting, which saw the need to deal specifically with or take a position on a narrow document sent by the Government on 23 April, and to summarise most of that document entitled "Declaration of Positions" and so on, and that the broader document, which is very comprehensive or detailed for certain areas of priority, is, in some cases, only the starting point for discussion and decision-making, in accordance with the decision or amendment. Because if we accepted everything it says, of course we would also accept a nice part of reporting, an explanation of how it is in the European Union rather than strategic direction. Thus, the New Slovenia Group supports this two-step approach and for us to adopt the second amendment does not mean that we have confirmed everything in the document, which has about 60 pages, but is the starting point on which we are preparing binding starting points in Parliament for the government. So much for this salary. Secondly, we would like in the New Slovenia Group that what we know so well to represent in Brussels and elsewhere, when we speak in support of respect for human dignity or in support of respect for identity, in support of the implementation of the principle, in respect of the principle of solidarity, that this also happens at home. If we follow the principle of solidarity across Europe in the first year, and of course those who rule, of course, will not grow the developmental difference between Slovenian provinces. So we want this principle, which we have signed, to be translated into the domestic situation. This is so in a different way, for if this is not left in nice papers and beautiful words, unfair and questionable differences between the provinces will increase. It would also be possible to talk about the principle of subsidiarity, which is an essential principle in setting a European legal order which, in our view, is not sufficiently taken into account in Slovenia or is not sufficiently established in accordance with this principle everywhere and level of affairs. With regard to very specific matters - I am sorry to disturb my colleagues in their conversation - I would like to say the following on behalf of the Group of Members. We didn't want to talk until May 1st, express our mistrust or, I'd say, bad expectations, but after May 1st, I think we're gonna have to say something. In fact, people are on the phone, people are asking how we are now going to apply to various calls for proposals, how we are going to prepare the programmes, and now we will see how much the government has prepared for Slovenia in all its responsible lines in the coming months to draw on the resources available. Of course, the papers say that we will work hard, but Nova Slovenija puts great emphasis on this, we do not have the impression that in all areas this is done so that the country will also be a truly effective and friendly service to those who do not now have all the knowledge that you need to go through the forms or calls and fill them with a lot of data. So we see a lot of emphasis on that. Secondly, the Lisbon Strategy, of course, does not say anywhere in the papers that we are among the former socialist countries that still have the lowest share of the private economy. I would be happy to see this - on behalf of the Group of Members - I say, of course, that it would say somewhere that we will correct this percentage, but that some fund, the Slovenian Compensation Fund, will speed up its way to the end of its life, because it is not the purpose of this fund to live and the country with it in a paralytic way or in its own way manages a fine share of Slovenian property, but to serve the injured as soon as possible, in order to respect the European principle of the rule of law and justice. What such a matter we would like to see written down in such a strategy. In this regard, of course, I must mention that certain things are well chosen, but we are of course interested in what will really happen in support of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2004, in order to strengthen our efforts to implement the Lisbon Strategy and to strengthen this undoubtedly most lively part of the economy so that it can give more. So, here in our group, we doubt that this is set up so that in 2004 what doesn't happen is what doesn't happen for 12 years. I mentioned the rule of law earlier. I no longer see, of course, the sentence which appeared in the European Commission's reports for years and which talked about the slow implementation of denationalisation. I think that this sentence would still fit or be appropriate, because it's still around 15% of the unsolved cases and I don't want to get past that, say, on May 1st, they've accepted us, and now, what's going to happen, one more case is going to be solved, and the other, let's leave. Well, I don't think we should do that. Also, this goal, with which we have always waved to our partners or those responsible, is to keep it before our eyes and try to realize it as soon as possible. Of course, there are a lot of individual issues that do not make sense now that we are specifically discussing, but we would like our strategic orientations to be such that the visibility, as I have already said, will be strengthened in the European Union in this first round, which will be very important for our image. Finally, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would also like to add to what Ambassador Podobnik said when he drew attention to differences in political culture with us and in Brussels. I went there as an observer for a good year, and I saw the President of the European Commission Prodi, who, if necessary, listened from the first to the last speaker, and he never experienced anyone coming to the President of Parliament and he would say, "Come on," and ours would have spoken a little earlier. We have never experienced this in the European Parliament. There is no whisperer who could change a certain agenda, as it was set for us, written down and given to all of you on the bench, this does not happen there. So we want not only to keep lists or make deals, but to keep the same laws for everything. New Slovenia has often said where we see the difference between words and actions, where we see clan approaches, where we see family behavior, we hope that on May 1st it means a change, a turning point, and our parliamentary group will pay very close attention to these inequalities, which we still see very, very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u33	Thank you. Dr. Miha Brejc, gets the floor, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u34	First, Mr Vice-President, I have to find out, and this was a procedural comment that we reported for 50 minutes, we got 38, say, the Slovenian People's Party got 50 minutes, and it's a smaller than the biggest opposition party. So here too we see that they do not follow the words spoken earlier by the President of Parliament. This is obviously a strange logic of conduct, which in fact has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, and it shows that, even in such an important topic as the European theme, if I say this whole set now, time limits and first we get the material from the government on 7 May to Parliament or then we get it on Monday, practically, covered in paper, a very important piece of paper, and then you limit us time and let this be the Parliament in which Members have the right to say their views on the matter! Well, that's an extremely non-European attitude. And I am protesting this on behalf of our Group of Members. Now for the content. So, what do I have to say first? As a whole, this document is appropriate and contains many important findings. Unfortunately, I regret more that there are no clearer concrete Slovenian views on these issues. Indeed, I have spent a lot of time in this European space over the past three years, and I know a whole series of these documents, and we are now transferring them to Slovenian space without telling ourselves more clearly what we think about them. We support the government when it comes to efforts to adopt a constitutional treaty. We believe that this is essential for us to come to a constitutional treaty, since fifteen have so far had no clear review of its own legal arrangements. Now that ten more countries have been involved, it is understandable that the situation is even more difficult, even more opaque, decision-making procedures are even more vague and untransparent, that I am not talking about a democratic deficit, not to mention unclear powers. After all, in the Constitutional Treaty, we have given great attention to human rights and freedoms and, of course, this is also one of the important elements that make us think that the Constitutional Treaty is a good document and should be adopted as soon as possible at this intergovernmental level and then sent to the adoption process in the Member States. With regard to the very frequent statements made by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and some others, perhaps in support of Croatia. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party agree that it is necessary to help the neighbours, I do not know whether we have been asked or not, whether you have an agreement here in the government or something like that - we are not going into this. We support Croatia's efforts to join the European Union, but we would like to point out that Slovenia itself has and will have a very large number of problems in regulating European affairs in the European area, especially when it comes to harmonising the different positions of the 25-erica. So, not to take this as a non-selfish position, if you take care of yourself first, and then for everyone else, but we want to draw attention to the real assessment of the situation. We need a lot of energy to be good in Europe, and yet I would give more emphasis. On page 6 of this document we read - so when it comes to the Schengen border - that funds are foreseen - I forgive myself, but maybe that's 4, I don't have a document here right now. Therefore, as regards the Schengen border, the funds are also foreseen to safeguard the common external border. Slovenia has, given that it is a 2-million-mile border and thus a high cost in establishing the Schengen border and then in maintaining the Schengen border. That is why such a formulation is too mild in my opinion. We must demand much more strongly to take into account this particular situation in which Slovenia is. Here we speak only - even such a very, very mild formulation. I propose to the government that it be placed here in a stronger position, more decisively taking place and saying that the 2-million-dollar state cannot bear the same weight at the external border as, I don't know, a country that has perhaps 40 million inhabitants. I would also like to draw attention to an idea that has been in the European area for a long time, but I do not know what its final destiny is. In fact, in the Group on Freedom, Security and so on, in which I participated, there was a lot of talk about the Schengen border - that is, it was a group in the formation of the European Constitution - and also in the Political Programme of the EPP, the debate on the Schengen border was of course very extensive and there was also an idea to form a common security force that was supposed to provide some, not border protection, but internal protection of external borders. The wording is loose, and my impression was that this might mean finding jobs for all those people who had just lost their jobs with new borders by 15-erica, but with some special security forces, they would try to ensure this internal protection of the external borders. So here I am just warning that the government should be very careful when it comes to such offers. The idea is still alive, but I can't tell you what stage it is right now. Well, then you're talking about European tax in that financial package. We believe that Slovenia must oppose the European tax as a financial source of the European Union budget. In fact, here I'm pointing out one of the very typical phenomena of large administrations, that's Pareth's syndrome. It is said that we could collect this European tax, the system will be so complicated that it will require a very large number of administrations, which, of course, will spend a lot of money for its work and will significantly reduce the final impact of such a tax, as it seems at first sight. In short, I am afraid they are leading such proposals into a strong expansion of the Brussels administration, but against what they should be. We all stress the importance of the Lisbon Strategy, which is, of course, right, and in this context, this document also underlines the importance of the single labour market. We all know that the emphasis on the one hand and on the other is generally known about restrictions on the free movement of persons, that this does not work together. And here the government should, despite the fact that, of course, it had to agree to a transitional period during this accession period, here the government, at least with a sentence, should say a different position as it is now written. More firmly say that, of course, this is wrong and that we expect that, in this two-year period, we simply say, we expect that Slovenia will no longer have these problems after two years. We are actually in a significantly different position than Poland, and we can also afford to have our own position, and I miss that very much in this document. The government does not take advantage of these options to say what it thinks, but is very obediently following European documents. That's not good. I think we need to make clear what's not good for us. We can't be seen to the Poles - why? There are 40 million of them, and if there were no such restrictions, five million would immediately seek work in the European Union. But there is no such situation in Slovenia, we are now members of the European Union, so we can say, okay, but pre-accession negotiations are such, but in two years we expect that these restrictions will no longer be. So I suggest we take this into account. It is very nice to read several parts of the text that speak about promoting entrepreneurship, but unfortunately, whenever the government promises to simplify the procedures for setting up businesses - also the new minister has announced that this will be different now - then this will somehow not happen and we are already a little tired of this debate We would really like to end up the government here not setting up any decisive position and cutting down all those bureaucratic obstacles so that entrepreneurs can really quickly and make it easier to set up a business to also provide a more appropriate tax policy for beginners, for new entrepreneurs. And here I miss in this document our specialty, payment indiscipline. I suggest to the government that, however, it is trying to include this very serious problem in this document, which is that payment discipline destroys small entrepreneurs. On the one hand, we say how important entrepreneurship is, let us do something to keep this entrepreneurship going and that small entrepreneurs will not fail because their subscribers, and this is in particular a state - interestingly, one of those culprits - that they will not fail because their work is not paid because they do not have enough capital to last longer. Let us not forget that the research that the government has done, which has also been done by Slovenian institutions, for example for entrepreneurship and the like, shows that the structure of entrepreneurship is similar to that of Europe. 99% of enterprises belong to the category of medium-sized, small, micro-enterprises. And yet I would expect that in this - I think that this is a very important document, i.e., I don't know, maybe given the behaviour of the Prime Minister, I would think that it is not, but it seems very important to me in content - and see if this is so, then I would expect in such a document a more decisive, more clear word from the government, but not a repetition of some of the commonly-known things that we have heard many times. Or, let's say, in the context of the Lisbon Strategy, and then, in particular, in the section on education, there is talk about accelerating investment in education. Yes, we all agree, at least I, please, don't remember anyone ever against it, but yesterday's debate in the National Assembly, on the Education Committee, and so on, has shown that the ruling majority still think it is right to pay only four years, not five, when introducing the Bologna process, so the Bologna model of higher education. Now, if we have decided to go into the Bologna process, then we must do it as fully as we can. But now we can't tell students in the fifth year of college, yes, now you'll pay for it yourself. Well, the government said yesterday that about 30% of the people at risk will be provided some funds. That's nice, but it's an unconstant thing again. And it clearly shows that we are trying to implement the Bologna Declaration again in a bureaucratic way, but not in essence to change the situation in higher education and to allow students at least about equal study conditions. A student's job is a term that only we know about. And we're talking about it instead of saying a more decisive word here. Of course, it is also true that the promotion of investment in education is a nice word, but let it be expressed in percentages that will be comparable to other countries and you will see there that we do not meet our national programme, which is existing, as it should be. Neither have we reached the percentages recorded in the national programme. Then there's, like, a sentence that talks about employment and so on. I quote, everything in this chapter is: "Better flexibility and efficiency of the labour market and the provision of new and better jobs." Yeah, how many times have we heard that sentence? But it's a clean slate. It's a text that has no weight, repeating some texts from the past, from other documents. Why do we burden such an important document with such things? Today, something has already been said about meeting the criteria, from financial criteria, Maastricht and the Stability Pact. As we know, Germany, France is now joined by Italy and Italy has actually violated the rules of the game. And this is where a man would expect a firm stance from the government towards this phenomenon. What do we read? I quote: "The divide", that is, the breakdown of these violations and the treatment of these in the European institutions, so I quote: "The divide will certainly be interesting," says the government. Please, I believe this is interesting for someone, but it can also be very tragic. I'd expect to see the government's position here. To put on the principled position and to take responsibility for it, and to say so, we condemn such a violation. The greatest can afford anything. We also had a debate in the European Parliament last week on this. And I can tell you that very sharp words have fallen. And yes, of course I don't have a mandate to say anything on behalf of the government, but I said it on my personal behalf. If the greatest violates the rules they've taken the most, then something is wrong. And if something's wrong, you have to say it, not stand in line as a sheep. I don't know how you think the European Union works. The European Union will praise us all the more, how good we are, how humble we are. Yes, full of praise. But I have not yet heard from the Slovenian representatives of one clear, decisive word, government representatives in the European space. I don't know what we're actually afraid of. If someone has violated the rules of the game, it is necessary to make this clear and certainly not take the view that this is the right thing to do. And there's this kind of ratting, you know, yeah, because maybe those criteria are too high, and I don't know what. Yes, please. Let's just say the criteria are like that. They were broken by you and you. Now, I agree. What will be decided by the European Court of Justice is a matter in the European Court of Justice, and this will be an interesting matter. But will Slovenia only say its position then? When all the sparrows are lurking, and so on. Maybe that's wise. I don't know. But I don't think it's in principle. Yes, and then let's say a wonderful sentence: "Increasing employment rates, especially for older workers." I am working as a European Member on the Employment and Social Affairs Committee, and especially on one of the teams created within the EPP. Such a more teaching team is dealing with this area, "human resource", that is, human resources. And when we discussed these things with our coordinator, we looked at extensive material on this and we saw that, in fact, in many European countries, a whole range of projects were created on how to involve people over 45 years of age in employment. These are very serious things. And here, of course, we satisfy ourselves with a more loose formulation. I'd be more interested in how we do it. Not only for this claim, but for many others, of course, mentioned in the text. How are we gonna do that? Now, so far, we can say that government policy is based mainly on the various programmes of active employment policy. Okay, that's right. The government devotes so much and so much money to active employment policies and thus alleviates unemployment; this is just fine. However, there is a significant emphasis missing, and I am a little surprised here. We all know that the government can create jobs primarily through its intervention means; that it can work in state and parastatal institutions, and that it does so, of course, and in this way also alleviates unemployment. But it is known that only a well-invested profit creates jobs - just that. And, of course, if we rely on and stress only government intervention all the time, which is a strong socialist practice, the practice of socialist countries, as well as the socialist parties in Europe who are in government, then there will be no real impact. I therefore suggest that the government consider finding a more appropriate formulation here, and also a commitment to do so in this direction, especially when it comes to job creation and tax policy. You are talking about the competitiveness of companies on page 14. Again, it's written very well, but the reality is different. There's a big gap between norm and reality here. I wouldn't go into all kinds of detail, but, say, mention this European paper on innovation policy. The action plan on innovation policy is very important for Slovenia because Slovenia, if I am not mistaken, is on the tail of European countries, judging by its innovation. Now, as much as a document can contribute to that, I don't know. It is necessary to create conditions for innovation to be well rewarded, wherever it occurs, and then there will be more. We can't write that anymore. In particular, I think it is important to stress the area that is talking about research funds. Here too, Slovenia is lagging behind. It identifies itself for a greater share of R & D funds, stresses the integration of science and the economy. I mean, I'm saying, the document is very good on this side. But at the same time, when this document is now being adopted in Parliament, contracts are being drawn up, or they are already concluded, I don't know, for the next five years, so to speak, for 2004-2009. See, please, who gets the money for the research for the next five years, and you will see that this is a significant step in the way I am, as stated in this program. In money, if I'm talking about units of research money now, so researchers, FTE, then we see that the Faculty of Social Sciences gets, say, 30 units, economic college maybe, I don't know, 5 or 3. And I wonder, yes, where is that base now? Yes, the basis is criteria, i.e. public publications in international magazines etc. It's an important criterion for science, but you know, it's not the only one. And in addition, those who had a high share of research funds all the time had these researchers, who worked seven hours a day on these research subjects and, of course, picked up a lot of material that teachers could then publish, etc. Those who didn't have it, of course they can't. In short, there is an inadequate relationship here in this research area and we should correct this by giving more emphasis to those research that benefit the Slovenian economy, but also to all other issues, but at this point we should focus on the economy. In fact, there is a representative at the Senate of the University yesterday, and I think the electrification of the hotel to find out what criteria the funds were shared by, because, say, energy as one of the key areas in this document, it did not get the research money. But sociology is a certain part, so this political part of sociology, to say FDV, as much as you want. These are things that aren't right. Now you'll say I'm criticizing again, but these are the facts. And interestingly, when the University of Ljubljana asks these questions and asks for an answer, it does not get an answer, not about the criteria or the means, nothing. There's no answer. A simple contract is signed for the next five years and these contracts are contrary to what it says here. By understanding that a person is actually doubting that this document is serious. Koper - Divaca, Ljubljana - Budapest, transport. It is well written, Slovenia is striving to maintain priority projects in the proposal for new guidelines. Very well, but most of the work needs to be done at home. You remember that debate when we fell off the quick list, and then the government was abusing that we came back on this quick list. Then I asked myself what it was like with this quick list. You're up fast, but you're down fast. In fact, if you don't prepare the projects yourself, if you don't prepare the purchase of land, the money in the budget, etc., is not with a quick list of nothing and we can write here nicely to do our best, but if we don't have it clearly written that the projects for the construction of the second track will be by then, the purchase of land after this and this dynamic, the money in the budget, but not 100 million in 2005, but the corresponding billions according to the structure of the expected funds. But it just isn't. Consumer protection. Slovenia does not yet have a state, I quote: "Slovenia does not yet have a state administrative authority to act against infringements by unfair providers of goods and services." It's amazing to see that now that we've entered Europe. Of course, it is clear from the material that such an organ will have to be established. So, on the one hand, we're working towards making the organs as few as possible, on the other hand, we're going to set them up and more. Even yesterday on the Education Committee, a public agency needs to be set up. And to my question whether then we will have a better quality higher education if we have a public agency, compared to the quality of higher education, if this were to continue to be done by the Ministry of Education, no one could answer, because it is clear that if any work is done in the Ministry of Education or in a public agency, it has nothing to do with the quality of higher education. But, most of it, the government has accepted it. It is clear that the public administration will continue to expand without looking at whether any tasks within the state administration can be performed by those who are currently employed there. No, they need a new agency, new people, and so on. That's not right. Slovenia has until July 2004 to prepare a national action plan for social inclusion. It will give the highest weight to measures to promote employment, address education deficits, provide adequate housing opportunities, reduce rural disparities and so on. It's a wonderful text again. Who wouldn't agree? Great. But I'd rather hear something else from the government. In addition to these beautiful words that the government would say, Prekmurje today has what, 50, 60% of the average gross domestic product in Europe and 120% in the Member States. My question to the government: "When will Prekmurje reach Ljubljana or at least approach it?" So there are many beautiful words, but there is no clear answer to how these big differences will decrease. You'll say, "We have the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund..." We already know all these answers, but you tell us exactly how you plan on doing these things by July. Now, of course, time does not allow me to continue to go to other parts of this vast and very, in my opinion, very important document. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is a document to be supported. There's no doubt about it. But we would like to see the government, in individual definitions, write down Slovenia's position more clearly. No, what position is set out in the European Union document. Our relationship to things is lacking in this document. Much clearer, much more firmer should be expressed. And I hope that the government will stand on its own feet and here in the European space also show that it can shape its own position. We will support the government in all those projects that will truly contribute to the more successful development of Slovenia and its effective functioning within the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u35	Thank you, Dr. Brace. I invite Master Mark Diacija, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear Secretary of State! Over the years, the whole country has been working towards a successful internal capacity for membership in the European Union. When, as we like to say, we successfully concluded the negotiations, Slovenia or its government representatives acted within the framework of the observer status for a year within the institutions of the European Union. As of 1 May this year, Slovenia has become a member of the European Union with all its rights and obligations. And as is heard from the exhilarating words of all of us, our membership has achieved the main goal, the nirvana of our independence. For the Young Slovenia Party, entry into the European Union is an opportunity and not an objective, a means to achieve the objectives. An opportunity that will only have to be taken advantage of. Without shame, we recognize how the other old members have done it and do it, look at the fine examples of Portugal, Spain and Greece, or even the most comparable of Ireland, that our primary goal is to increase prosperity and standards at home. This is what our government has so shyly classified as an effective drawdown of cohesion policy funds and the preparation of a sufficient number of high-quality projects, on which it will actually be decisive whether Slovenia will also, by the end of 2006, be actually a net recipient of funds from the European budget or, in its own words, will depend on our own ingenuity whether or not we will give more or more from the common treasury. That sounds like something familiar from a half-lived history. Of course, it is the absorption capacity that will decide on this and therefore it is necessary to have adequate resources, such as administrative competence of the authorities. Are we able to follow and assist interested people in the field of human resources at home? We have been able to see in the media several times that we are better prepared here than others, and the question is if we are optimally prepared. It should also be noted that, while the document is adequately prepared at strategic level, at tactical level we consider it insufficiently defined. The objectives should also be defined in a timely manner, as there are also medium- and long-term objectives in this document, and for intermediate objectives also to define the quantification of those, if not, we may happen to be in a dilemma forever, whether we have achieved the goal or not, and because of the moving objectives we will be forever successful and effective or vice versa. Between one and the other extremes, the government has set itself some useful objectives, such as the coordination of social security systems, which allows the transfer or preservation of social rights of workers of the European Union working in another country, with government representatives discreetly overlooking the smallness, such as the restriction on the free movement of labour, also for Slovenia, which we have received despite the Government's assertion that this cannot happen to us because we do not threaten other labour markets. Reality is different. For SMS employment abroad, not only does it mean the escape of the labour force and the brain cream of Slovenia to the European Union, but it is primarily the opportunity for young people to gain at home or in the European Union certain work experience and skills with work in the European Union, which allows them access to a greater choice of return employment, which is also the aim of the Young Slovenia Party, but not that young people remain abroad. It is also a priority to give all young people equal opportunities for access to a quality and free study, as knowledge beyond values is the only thing we can give to young people for their success in life. However, that society must create conditions in which young people can become equal members of society, with all potential for development, is the only possible option of this society for future existence. It is our priority to protect species and habitats and to preserve natural biodiversity, but not only in fisheries, even in a broader sense of sustainable development. We are not only interested in agriculture through the amount of subsidies, we are fully interested in the possibilities of restructuring and, in particular, in rural development policy in the next financial perspective. It is important for SMS to negotiate new cohesion policy regulations through national priorities, in particular the General Provisions Regulation, the Structural Funds and their functioning in the coming period. Genetically sound and pesticides purified food, clean drinking water and greater control of food quality are, according to SMS, an important factor in health protection. Free Software and free internet for all is a priority in the field of information society services. We build highways with our money, so it is important for us to have the most of these. We are in transport to phase out tolls and so much more to charge for heavy goods vehicles over Slovenia. In energy we will have to decide not only how to use energy less wastefully in Slovenia, but what our resources will be in the future. In our SMS we support the environmentally balanced development of alternative energy sources. It will also be necessary to resolve issues at the level of the European Union with NEK and waste. Respect for environmental, health and social aspects must be taken into account in the competitiveness of businesses. The rule of law is respect for human rights and equality, regardless of gender, race, religion or nationality, as well as changes in the field of justice and home affairs, where the fight against terrorism alone must not be the main point of thought. The government in the proposed documents sets out the priority of taking on strengthening and responsibilities at EU level and that such action is mature, that this does not mean denying its own national interests and that we will do so in any way. The fact is, first of all, we must be interested in how we will make the most of our membership in the European Union and reduce the differences to the most developed. We have done a lot for this, we have given up many things, not only transferred some of our sovereignty, we have also given up a very favourable trade agreement between Slovenia and the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which has made the competitiveness of our companies in the markets of these countries significantly more difficult. There will also be negative consequences, which the government is cautiously silent about, or is not aware of, what is yet ahead of us, for example, the closure of jobs as in the case of Tobacco in Ljubljana. We therefore miss this first priority in these documents, how to use membership wisely for the development of Slovenia. Given that it is clear to all who have worked in the EU institutions in any way that you need three things to obtain funds successfully - a good project whose content is drinking water, an accurate knowledge of the complex mazes of Brussels bureaucracy and a real telephone number - Slovenian representatives should, if we cannot get through to a bunch of leadership positions, immediately train as many officials who are able to operate at the level of the Directorates, who are actually preparing materials and, in particular, the content and priorities that then go into discussion and decision-making, and usually the main decision is already made there. And our people in such positions should be a second priority. As a third priority, Slovenia should set itself in terms of increasing influence and power, especially through new candidates, where it could benefit from Slovenia's comparative advantages in relation to the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the Balkan neighbours who also want to join the European Union. Our negotiating experience and knowledge of these countries must be used to increase the political and economic influence of Slovenia. Through the above priorities, and under the following two preconditions, we will be able to successfully implement the fourth priority, namely, defending and lobbying Slovenia's most advantageous starting points in the negotiations on the next financial perspective for the period beyond 2006 and beyond. In order to take the above seriously and responsibly, you need two fulfilled preconditions: a clear vision of what Slovenia we want in 2015 and a highly qualified and well-motivated team that will be able to achieve its objectives and will take service in the EU as a professional challenge and prove with results, not as a reward for past work. Youths need to be given knowledge, guidance, motivation and confidence in them. Only then will there be real opportunities for increasing the economic and political power of Slovenia and achieving the main goal, increasing the prosperity of the people of Slovenia, with a focus on the generations to come, which we are already deciding today with such documents. Your Honor! The outcome of all these strong preparations of the current government is the documents before us and the fact that in our view we do not have a key document for the functioning of Slovenia and of Slovenian representatives within the EU - this is a strategy for the development of Slovenia, which is to be obtained once in the future. In the documents presented we miss the essence of the vision of Slovenia, how we will achieve this and what Slovenians will actually have from membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Marco Diaci. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I will lead the debate on the basis of a list of those who are registered for the debate and also those who are present in the Chamber. A colleague or a colleague who will not be present at that time will unfortunately not be able to discuss it anymore. I give the floor to Ljubo Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Given that we have heard many of the ways and practices we have learned from the experience of observers in the European Parliament today, this should be the case at the outset. That, of course, functioning in the European Parliament is also very rationally organised, as one of the efficiency practices in the European Parliament. And of course, when we have discussed this, it is also necessary to add that, of course, timing and rationality of the discussion is one of the fundamental ways of working in the European Parliament. This, of course, also directs all parliamentarians, both political group leaders and introductory representatives of certain positions, and then individual debaters to a very rational concentration of thoughts and, of course, the effectiveness of working in the European Parliament. With this document, which we have here today before us, I would, of course, like to commend this document. However, I would like to focus on two priorities, which I think are extremely important. And for Slovenia also in the long term with important effects. What is written in the context of the Financial Perspective for 2007 and 2007-2013 and related to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. I think these are two very important issues, which the government also considers necessary to focus, of course, on all efforts, not only on Slovenia, but especially on all new Member States, in assessing the statistical impact of the approach to achieving division by priority. I agree that the new financial perspective puts the new challenges ahead of the common European area of twenty-five new ones. To set new priorities from the current financial perspective. New priorities which are also of paramount importance to the Republic of Slovenia. And one of the most important priorities is the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. And the Lisbon Strategy, which, of course, speaks at the heart of the idea that the European Union, the European economy, the European economy will become the most dynamic and competitive in the process of globalisation, on the other hand, speaks of the need to address social issues and, of course, sustainable issues, on an equal footing when it comes to economic issues, i.e. environmental issues that combine so-called sustainable development. Of course, I would also like to make it clear that the fundamental principle of the European social model is to stress the interdependence and coherence of economic, employment and social policy. And here Slovenia needs to be made clear that Slovenia has very good results in this area and that a lot has been done in this area. Of course, I agree that it is impossible in the 2004 declaration and priorities for Slovenia to transfer all the material, all the documents on which Slovenian policy is based, and the Slovenian policy and the work of the national assembly, government and all institutions, because this document would, of course, be too extensive. However, I would like to point out, of course, that it is very social, given that I myself have worked on the Employment and Social Policy Committee in the European Parliament, where we have addressed many of these issues, it is clear that Slovenia has a large number of strategic documents in this area in 2004 which would only list active employment policy programmes, a national employment action programme for 2004 and, of course, a national labour market development programme by 2006. These are some of the very strategic documents that will, of course, also respond to the employment strategy in the EU, which talks about creating new jobs and, of course, creating better, better jobs. This is also a challenge for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy, which, in the context of the economic strategy and in the direction of the development of Slovenia in knowledge-based society, clearly states that we want to build the development of Slovenia on technologies with high added value, including high knowledge. And in this area, Slovenia has done a great deal in the last 12 years, of course. If we just look at what Parliament has done in this area: let us mention only three laws in the field of education and science, which, by additional means, has actively co-financed faster development in this area, and of course a clear definition to support the development of knowledge. Of course, you are here clearly Slovenia, including by my conduct, in the European space, ensuring that, of course, any restriction on the free movement of people, as one of the fundamental freedoms, i.e. the fundamental four freedoms of the EU, does not contribute to this objective. And so, I am sure, as one of my speakers has already said, that all the observers in the European Parliament have clearly taken this position, while we have always been clear from the EU's world, the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, represented Slovenia as a country that does not expect to act in accordance with the accession treaty, where Member States have ensured the possibility of applying this transitional period. And all the debate that we have also held in Parliament and in political groups and committees in the European Parliament has gone this way, so that, of course, measures to limit the free movement of people can also reduce the possibility for the EU to implement the strategy, i.e. the Lisbon Strategy. Of course, it will be extremely important for Slovenia to build its strategic documents further. Here I see an extremely important role, the principle of solidarity, which will have to be ensured through Slovenia's positions under the new financial perspective and through the Structural and Cohesion Funds. Here, I agree, as was said in the introduction, but at the same time, Slovenia will have to provide Slovenia, also through a document of coherent regional development that this Parliament will consider this month, as a space of equal opportunities, equal opportunities for employment and development and, of course, to introduce additional measures which will, of course, add to regions with a smaller rate of rapid development through an active policy of action for faster development. As I said at the outset, of course, I regard this document as an extremely important document and a good starting point and a government strategy for action in the EU world. At the same time, I would, of course, also give Parliament an initiative and a warning that Parliament, at an extremely fast pace, will design and adapt the work that will have to be done by the home labour bodies, which in my opinion will be those fundamental working bodies that will form strategic starting points for action or for positions in the Committee on European Affairs, which will somehow be upgraded and confirmed, while most of the work will, of course, have to be classified in this Parliament in the labour bodies themselves. Given that this point, followed by this point, it seems to me that this might be an important point to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u39	Thank you very much. It's got magic in it. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Both texts that are before us can be read from different viewpoints. I read them myself from the standpoint of what is written in these two documents, and the views as to how the declarations and sets of priorities are written. This means that I do not see them as just a declaration text that does not have any subsequent effects and anticipated additional texts that will accompany these Slovenian priorities for working in the world of the European Union with purely concrete additional measures and texts, as said. And if I think about Slovenia's priorities for 2004, then I would like to think not from the point of view of officials, bureaucrats or political elites in the European Union, but I would like to start by thinking about it from the point of view of Slovenian citizens and citizens of the European Union. In this context, what is most important to an individual? I would hope to say that this is a sense of security, of social security and of course of legal certainty. Therefore, allow me to think that these documents will also make it very important for every citizen to have access to basic legal acts in the Slovenian language and to be able to verify this ability to refer to the European institutions and also to have an answer to the European institutions in Slovenian as a very important fact. But it is not self-evident that every citizen and citizen can master foreign languages to the extent that all that is written is also so clear and good that it gives them a sense of security. At least in this part, that every human being is a value and is allowed to maintain or maintain dignity must be guaranteed. And now to second security, that's what we usually have in mind when we talk about that concept, that's external security. I agree that efforts must be made to make the European Union an area of freedom, security and justice. In doing so, it can be read that the conclusions from the Tampere Summit and the Amsterdam Treaties, which are supposed to be implemented at home in 2004, are the ones that are supposed to provide greater security in the area. And then there's a particular problem, and so did we, uncontrolled immigration. And it seems to me that orientation in this direction is how to prevent irregular migration, irregular migration, that the solution offered to me is the best possible solution, which is to address the causes of migration, irregular migration and the promotion of legal immigration. In doing so, the drafters of the documents have in mind, of course, the immigration motivated by the desire for education, employment and scientific research. And in this context, I intend to address another set of issues that I think are very important in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. This is the second chapter on strengthening the social dimension in the enlarged Union. I once told the European Affairs Commission that I would expect a greater amount of funding in the financial perspective to be allocated to this set of issues. However, if I think about promoting social cohesion, as we do among the priorities of the European Union, then I think it is an effort to eliminate social exclusion and reduce poverty and to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, but to modernise social protection systems, in particular the pension and health systems, the thing that is actually intended for each individual and which is intended to help with what I have said before, namely to ensure the safety of every individual. And here I must say, however, I find for the specificisation of Slovenia's priorities, which discusses Slovenia's national action plan for social inclusion, which is combined with the 2004 and 2006 years, and which discusses such a policy that will promote employment, address educational deficits, and provide adequate housing opportunities and focus on reducing regional disparities and better access to services and ensuring adequate income. Now that this is all made up, it is still necessary to read a little further and 6 such specific tasks, which are part of the national employment action plan, can be identified among the priorities of Slovenia. This will also be checked regularly, at least as it is written, as the Employment Committee will review the implementation of the employment policies of the Member States each year, and Slovenia will also have to review what it has achieved in this area. However, it has already been mentioned that, on the employment issue of Slovenia, it is expected that employment opportunities without transitional periods for Slovenia will be opened, but that it will have to accept that, once again, it will have to implement only equivalent measures against each individual Member State of the European Union. However, preparation for the effective use of European Union financial instruments to specify individual tasks is essential and can also be read in this document. I'd like to touch two more things. All those things related to education and training, in particular young people, as well as education and training as a lifelong process. It seems to me that we have made an important step towards integration into the European Higher Education Area in an accelerated effort to adopt the Bologna Declaration in the area of higher education, and of course my concern, whether we will know whether we will retain all the advantages that are being judged or which are in the national higher education system and will endure the comparison with European higher education systems, both in terms of quality and in terms of knowledge standards, whether we will know whether we will retain this or not, but there remains an open question and here some of my scepticism remains. Under any other programme, I have actually found only one area in this pillar, which I think is so focused on one year at a time without any prospects for continuation. This is the area of sport, and perhaps in the context of efforts to live a healthy, safe life, and also a long life in this area, in principle, a healthy spirit in a healthy body, however, should be given more than it is in this programme. And now let me take a look at the last chapter that I wanted to mention so that I wouldn't glean all over the document. This is an area of equality and non-discrimination. It is indeed possible to establish for Slovenia that we have reached a relatively high standard in this area, at least as far as legal regulation is concerned, but it seems to me that we are not excluded or protected from such things as the European Union is facing. It would, of course, be useful to emphasise, however, that the bitads should ensure that those guidelines are adopted as soon as possible, which are linked to the prohibition on the use of sex as a factor in the calculation of insurance premiums and payments and other related financial services. It seems to me that women live longer, but the countries should only be happy, because the proportion of the active population is increasing, because women now also after working age, which is needed to achieve a full pension, are closer to men, and because they say that the ageing population will also be linked to the fact that the active age will increase earlier than the longer working age, then the European Union should be satisfied that women are tougher and should not be forced to charge discriminatory provisions for insurance premiums. I see that I have taken care of the smiles on the faces of Members and Members, and this also contributes to better health and well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u41	Thank you, colleague Majda. I would just like to inform you that today is not a 30-minute recess at 1300 hours as usual when we vote from the front. In the course of the five-hour debate, no immediate vote is envisaged, but only at the end of the item and you will take care of the renewal of power yourself. That is why I am continuing the debate. Franci Rokavec has the floor. And then Jelko Kacin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I have to say in the openings that this debate is late. We should have done it by mid-April. He's been behind us for 12 days within the European Union. And of course we're facing this document after May 1st. In addition, I am joining the predecessors in the debate that the document on Slovenia's priorities in the field of the European Union and, of course, the priorities in 2004 are a very broad document and that we should actually have a so-called action plan and, of course, clear positions that our country or its representatives should also represent on important issues in the field of the European Union. Of course, these documents, which are before us, are much more general and, of course, give our representatives, in fact, a much more free hand in representing these positions, including the current situation that will take place in the European Union. That's why I think it's bad. It is also bad that the Prime Minister did not take so much time to listen to the views of the groups in his introductory report, of course. This would already be one step further in bringing ourselves closer to the standards that actually apply in the European Union. In fact, as has already been said, both the President of the Commission and the prime ministers in each country devote much more time to listening to MEPs and Members in Parliament. And the theme of our country's representations and priorities in the European Union is a topic that needs to be devoted significantly more time. Now, perhaps to specific questions. There have been many speeches about the European Constitution here in Parliament, of course, at the very moment of negotiations. We know that at the last summit of the end of last year, these negotiations have failed. There is a new attempt this June to make the European Union finally receive the European Constitution for the correctional exam, which, of course, is absolutely necessary. However, when we read these documents, another question arises. At Slovenia's entry into the European Union in Dublin, the Prime Minister stated that, of course, Slovenia does not need or think about any referendum. There is no speech in this document on the question of who will decide whether Slovenia thinks or not, but the Prime Minister has made this opinion clear. This raises a serious question as to whether many European countries are thinking that they will give their citizens this opportunity to speak about the European Constitution. Of course, it would be fitting to open such a debate in our political space. Indeed, this is certainly one of the very historic decisions that has been made not only before the Member States of the European Union, but will also concern citizens and citizens in many ways, either the European Union or citizens and nationals of each country. Therefore, there is certainly a lot to be said in this document. The other issues in this document, which are very general, are from the issue of budgetary deficits, as has already been said, employment issues and employment restrictions, labour flows and could still be listed in both long and long terms. Then, by the way, also the issue of agriculture, which has nothing to say about what our country's strategy should be, what kind of payment will it take, whether it will advocate a simplified scheme or a combined approach. This decision will have to be taken by our country no later than the month of August, but nothing is recorded in this document. Probably because there is still a hypersensitivity to this issue at this time. The next thing I would point to this is the question of the unwillingness of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the tasks associated with it, including our Parliament. It is only at today's meeting that we will discuss and decide on the rules of procedure to deal with these issues. Nor do we have the competent committees, which could, in fact, be involved in the process, which is also the responsibility of Parliament, to form our views on the positions that the government will then represent in the institutions of the European Union, on the basis of a law that deals with government relations between the government and Parliament. In fact, here I do not think that this is good, because at this point the government has completely open hands, it can do much more than if Parliament were prepared to do so. I hope that the National Assembly will carry out these necessary tasks as soon as possible, and that, as a legislative branch of government in this country, it will be able to fully involve itself as soon as possible in the formation of the positions that are important to our country, to the government or to our representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u43	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. The Kacin tree has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues and other representatives of the government! What I am about to do now is not to object to a colleague's debate in front of me, but it seems necessary to be precise in our discussions. He said, "We don't have any work bodies." That's not true. We have all the working bodies right. We've got all our working bodies. Please. We have a unit, we have a double, we have a plural, we have all the working bodies. Two working bodies are fundamental to the issue of European affairs, these are the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. As the leaders of the parliamentary groups have found, no corrections are necessary within the Foreign Policy Committee until the end of the term of office. So it is only a question of whether we have a working body called the European Affairs Committee. We don't have one. To this day, however, we still have a European Affairs Commission run by the opposition. Under our internal agreement, the European Affairs Committee will be led by a ruling coalition and the opposition has a vice-president. I really do not know whether the opposition would like to get rid of responsibility and therefore sadly notes that this committee has not yet been, but I have not seen any errors or setbacks so far, or whether we would like to be left out of anything to the detriment of Slovenian interests and I would like to say at this point that the European Affairs Commission has done its job properly so far. And if we don't have them by now, I don't think it's a major sin or any kind of sin. It is an opportunity to bring things together and as soon as it is coordinated, it will be less obvious, but it seems to me that then who will not be exactly satisfied with the presidency or the management of this working body. The other thing that seems important to me is that these documents, on the one hand, and the declaration on the other hand, are too loose. However, I would like to recall that this National Assembly has decided to examine the experience of other countries carefully and that we have found that, at times, excessive frameworks or the way in which Denmark operates have brought the country, government and parliament into impossible situations. It is therefore certainly better that we have a more flexible approach and that our own governments, and thus our own countries, do not limit the legislator of the European Council too much, as this could also lead to the blocking of the functioning of the European Union and, above all, the European Council within the European Union. And that's definitely not good. The essence of today's debate should be not just a general discussion but a determination of what needs to be done in order to achieve a transitional period, and a transitional period is from this moment forward until the establishment of a new National Assembly, and this National Assembly has been carrying out its task of directing and overseeing the government in the role of legislator in the work of the European Council. That's all this is about and nothing more. With our constant deliberation and denial that we will soon be blocking or that there will be no more opportunities for a plenary session of the National Assembly, this is an optimal opportunity for us today to say what is to be said in this regard. In stock, however, it means from the moment we count today as of today to the state elections and from the national elections to the formation of a new national assembly and its working bodies. I imagine that the next call will be set up before the government is formed, so the current government will also carry out ongoing business in the transitional period until the new government is established. And that's what this is all about. To create an effective system whereby the agenda items on the agenda of the European Council in September and October will also be dealt with in a timely manner on competent and interested working bodies. If we report this to each other at this meeting and if we understand this, then the general debate will be significantly less. My only regret is that until this moment, he had not completed much, the amendments to the declaration. For if this declaration is not complete, it should be supplemented. But the debates are only general. Nothing new has been added, except for the already announced amendment signed by the first-signed Dorian Marsič when it comes to chapter 3.4. in the declaration, when care is also added to control the spread of light weapons or personal weapons, which should also be one of the concerns, given that we are the only member of the European Union from the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia. We have this amendment. If there is another amendment, it would be good to present it as soon as possible, to discuss it and vote on it. Everything else seems more urgently necessary to fill the time reserved for this debate. In this way, we will not help the minister, nor the government, nor the national assembly. We've got about an hour or two left to give birth to some kind of amendment. If there is such a thing, I would take this opportunity to invite my colleagues and colleagues to write such amendments as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u45	Thank you very much. To the word I invite Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u46	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We have two documents in front of us. A declaration which is in a way a doctrinal document, how Slovenia should behave and find itself in the European Union, what its direct tasks are. And the second is a list of priorities. I think that there is a large part of what Slovenia has to do here, because this was done by the services that are numbered, which are professionally subdued and have also prepared these documents. And the problem seems to me to be somewhere else right now. The problem seems to me to be whether Slovenian policy really exudes its daily moves to effectively integrate into the European Union. By the way, this title Effective entry into the European Union is misused and should not appear. The fulfilment of full membership should be the title, because this is the title of the document which last year served as a propaganda document of the coalition and on which the election campaign of the largest party will be built and likely to be able to pay for these matters on the basis of this third contracting party. However, this so-called effective entry should be accompanied by a daily government and executive policy. There's something else going on here. You're always discussing the exchange of foreign ministers. Yes, now that we are full members, how can we go effectively to the European Union without knowing who the Foreign Minister is? No credibility, no health in the leading coalition and so on. In the second half of the year, this is exactly what the Dutch Presidency of the European Community will be. And it is extremely important there at that moment to have an experienced diplomat, capable of leading and coordinating matters. The government's human resources policy in this area is going in a completely different direction. I must say that I am very sorry that we are in the hearing today, with due respect for the candidate, but she has no potential for this. She just didn't do it. He doesn't even have political terminology. And it is not possible for the government, because of the awards of gratitude, to protect the government in another area, but many things that it has been fulfilling a non-majority government policy, in the economic field, for example, to set such a location as a reward. We'll be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and nothing helps our very busy documents, unless we are able to enforce them in practice. [[...]] There are a whole bunch of these cases to show that the area of entry into the European Union takes place after two tracks. To work their papers to bring them to parliament by accident, and then these papers are activated, and then they're going on some scenic tracks. And the government's work in that area has been quite consistent lately. I have to say, it's true. And in this way, I fear that we will make very poor use of the opportunities offered by the European Union. That we will poorly draw on cohesion funds to lose our reputations and our credibility in the European Union. Look, other countries come in a little differently. And at this point, it should also be on the table in these documents, which is missing, what will be the immediate consequences for our companies. Customs. We know, I have already mentioned many times the large company Immol from Slovenia Bistrica, who are aware that they will have about two billion more customs at the expense of the fact that Slovenia was unable or has not notified this transitional period at any point in time, as did Hungary, Poland and the competing countries. We left it behind, we didn't realize it, and the government doesn't anticipate anything for these economic operators to bridge it. Our economic operators will be in a significantly worse situation. That's what I'm talking about in the aluminium industry. What about the food industry, where the consequences will be very severe? And for this reason, I think it would be a recent time for the government to actually sit together to act as a government, not as opposed to people who are incapable of pursuing Slovenian interests in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u47	Just for an explanation, Your Honorable Fellow Jerovšek. Indeed, the agenda item bears the title of Slovenia's Priority in the field of European affairs in 2004 and the priorities for work in the Council of the European Union in 2004, is not the title of Slovenia's Effective Entry into the European Union. Let us be so consistent, and also in Rapporteur 57 the address is the same as the agenda item. This is where I corrected the statement, which was, please, Joseph Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u48	Mr President, don't measure my time on our procedural bill, it's already running. Please stop, this is a violation of the rules of procedure. Not to say, here in the rapporteur, the EU's effective integration is the continuation of Chapter 3.1 and not to say that it is not. This is the same address as the title of a propaganda material last year for the consolidation of the ruling coalition. And that's more than obvious. We need now, not an effective entry, but an effective full-fledged membership. Mr Vice-President, you have once again violated the rules of procedure to try to interfere with my discussion. That's all I've been talking about is what the documents on priorities and priorities say, and you're commenting on me. Please stop violating the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The Declaration on the Positions of the Republic of Slovenia for the Functioning of the European Parliament or of the European Union exceeds 2004. That's beyond a doubt. The priorities for work in the Council of the European Union also go back to 2004. But not only because this year the functioning of institutions of a European character, both the Commission and Parliament, will be slowed down in some way for the sake of elections, because of the establishment of a new Parliament, or because of the appointment of a new Commission, but also because it is simply long-term objectives that stretch for a longer period, which is, of course, only this year that we have left. Slovenia has adopted documents which have a long-term vision. Those who have carefully read the priority guidelines can verify this on a number of documents that go far beyond 2006. I quote this only because it has been said several times today, and in particular in Mr Brejc's statement that this is not a concrete solution, but rather some general flat-rate conclusions that do not provide sufficient basis for resolving current real and concrete issues. Let me just say some. We have, say, a programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness for the period 2002-2006. We have different legal strategies, such as a national labour market and employment programme by 2006. We have a resolution, a tenth or a fraction that I'm listing. We have a resolution on the national drug programme 2003 to 2008, in contrast to the fact that, in the European Union, this moment only approaches the development of a strategic document at European level and an action plan covering 2005 to 2007, or a European drug strategy to reach 2010. In short, it is, of course, impossible to say that this is a document that will be carried out for a good half a year, but covers and directs the operation probably to continue. There is nothing to dispute, as they follow consistent agreements and also all the commitments and coordination that have taken place on the European Union-Slovenia relation at all institutional levels. At the same time, at the same time, they attach themselves, especially to the priorities, to all the open issues that are open at European level. Look, please, whoever has reached the priority document to the end, which is the 62nd page, can see that not only do we have a list of the political priorities, legislative and non-legislative proposals of the European Union for 2004, but we also have a list of those legislative and non-legislative proposals that the European Commission might propose in 2004. There are six printed pages here in the press that you can't even read. There is so much of this material that leaves open questions and it is impossible that such a document could be as Mr Brejc would have liked to be, which would like to have concrete answers to all the specific questions that he considers to be current. Is such a document, which has an important annex to it, such a declaration, with such a large annex along with it is operational enough, of course there is no question for me, because the question is how much greater the nature of such a document can carry. In this sense, I think that today, too, among those who have spoken about this document, there has been one specific surface in reading, because Slovenia's priorities are so specific at certain levels that it even appoints offices, if I give the case, to solve consumer protection priorities as a sample example, that we need to set up a specific office by the end of the year, etc. Education programmes are extremely specific. Not to mention those mentioned in the area of culture, I must admit that I am pleased that this area in the field of culture does not spread through any declarations or directives, because we know that this is one of the rare areas which the European Union leaves open to individual national regulations precisely because it understands it as a space of differences, an important place for the application of differences and freedom. It lists those programmes that will be launched in the future, not only in 2004, but also in 2004. In short, which programmes, which are now the basis for Slovenia's drawback, will be replaced. So, for example, we're going to lose - we're supposed to be with the Media Plus and Media Training program to get new programs to replace it so far. However, I think in this area, as I would like to point out, it is very important that the European Union is starting to face the issue of the protection of cinematographic heritage and the drafting of a convention on this issue, because in this Parliament we have opened this issue as a matter of urgency, as is the development and age of the youngest artistic practice of the film that already needs protection. And this Parliament, when we adopted the National Programme for Culture, has adopted the additions that came from the Member States, and I fear that Europe will now prescribe to the government that this comment was meaningful. Let me conclude with a concluding thought that was not discussed today. After May 1st, we are working together to develop a common European policy. And I like that our computers on 2 May have filled themselves with some calls and alerts from ordinary citizens who at this point have already been called to point out those changes that are taking place in the Brussels talks before they happen. Let me mention a concrete example: this is a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the patentability of computerised inventions, which is being coordinated at this moment and where citizens and citizens of Slovenia are afraid of the solutions that are supposed to arise in this area and are calling for rulings or those who will coordinate these issues. This awareness that the negotiation is not only taking place at the level of Šubičeva or Gregorčič, I like it and I think it will be very important for the political culture of the Slovenian space to take place in advance, including for the culture of the agreement. At the same time, I would point out that there will be so much more important information coming from negotiators or those who will represent Slovenian interests in the institutions of the European Union in order to avoid misunderstandings, such as in the preparation of this Directive or internal dialogue. Speaking of co-forming a common European policy, it is important to emphasise another fact of how Slovenia will represent its or wider European interests. This cannot be recorded in the declaration, of course it is not an object, but it seems important to me to say at this point that the force of enforcement is very much linked to the credibility of what it says. In short, what strength will individuals have, how analytically they will approach, how credible they will approach, what strength of argument they will have and the power of lobbying in the European Union. For only in this way will there be an appropriate degree of confidence and of course the respect of the State. Let me conclude with the idea that, while this enlargement may be necessary in Europe, it is also necessary to approach our positions in a way that denies what, at least personally, I am concerned with the superficial and very flat-rate findings of our interlocutors in Europe, which now disturbs their latent identity and the perception that the ten-nation package has been joined by countries coming from Eastern Europe and countries coming from totalitarianism. It will be necessary to make it more clear that Slovenia is and belongs to Central Europe and that the term totalitarianism, which may also be close to one of our representatives in the European Union, is an unfair substitute for the expression of socialism, which could be in many ways, when it comes to the implementation of social policy in the European Union, can also be a learning hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor. Please. The microphone, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u52	Do I have to start again? Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to speak as a member of the National Assembly, which is now with our country in the European Union. So I'd like to talk about something that's not in this program of work, but it would belong there. Pluralism in practice, in politics, in culture, in public life, etc. It's a thing that should intertwine through this program, but it doesn't. The report on Slovenia's priorities is, of course, extensive and also declaration of Slovenian work, but not sufficiently understandable or not sufficiently comprehensive and sufficiently understandable. It does not cover some very important issues, such as the state of human rights in us and the functioning of civil society. Mr President, that you will not say that I do not adhere to the text, let me remind you that on page 11 human rights are mentioned, etc., saying that human rights, human security are increasingly visible, solid and lasting priorities of Slovenian principled foreign policy. I would like to know what this principled foreign policy is and how it is implemented. I think human rights are being violated with us every day. Let me just mention this from this national council, such as the arbitrary limitation of time to discuss the opposition. What is it if we don't violate our rights? See, the accusations we had here at the National Assembly on Corruption, on conflicts of interest and so on were accepted as protection against successful companies. If a citizen here does not bring in "corpus delicacies" for every thing, which is impossible, not the police, not the prosecution, no one else does care about these things, although, according to all indications, this is called abnormal financial transactions and so on and so on, the police and the state prosecutor's office should begin. Their excuse is, "We do things by the law." However, one gets the impression that government officials are hiding behind these laws, and they also suggest that they can say that they are covered. This is certainly not a European and a good case, but our former state prosecutor Then, secondly, we have a lot of ideological terrorism, which I've been talking about here, this is the government forcing our society from day to day, about its commitment to winning the communist revolution between war and occupation. It's on the agenda all the time, and no one can do anything about it. This is a violation of our human rights and it is becoming increasingly serious and oppressive. It is a moral tyranny, a desecrated and a violation of the most democratic rights of citizens. The government has calculated that this dishonest manipulation of the dead for its political purposes will contribute to the reconciliation and I don't know what else, but the opposite has happened. And with this shameful baggage, the government has taken us to the European Union. And so congratulations to Tonet, and congratulations to Roman for his success. The government should establish an independent historical fact-finding commission in 1945 and 1946, pardon 1941 and 1946, which would lead to final reconciliation and also closer to the historical truth. Every healthy policy must be based on moral grounds. What will help us if we prepare such a good report, a plan of how we will act as a Europe, as a country in the European Union, and if these priorities stand on the very rotten legs of the revolution, violations of the most fundamental values written into the mind and heart of every human being. There is really no room in the report for morals, human rights and the functioning of civil society. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, our house in the European Union will not be able to be built as it should be. For the people of the government who wrote the report, these are just words, but for everything else we will depend on the other members of the European Union to push us in the right direction until we are fed up. This report is flawed and one would like to be complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u53	Thank you. France Tsukati has the floor to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Of course I reported it for 10 minutes. LDS, the United List and DeSUS granted me apparently three minutes at college. As far as I can tell in these three minutes, there's another question. I would certainly like to mention only a chapter of health care about the programme that is here. As in the other chapters, there are quite a few nice words here that we will adopt the rules of the international health organisation, that we will plan in accordance with the guidelines and so on. Very nice. I would also like this country to become more European to adopt the guidelines and principles that are in force in Europe and to make our economy more transparent so that there is less corruption, so that more business ethics can become more European and so shamefully minimal than in some jobs. How, what do we really do with these promises, which are also very rich here, and how do we really follow European guidelines, let me just give you an example. We had adopted a national drug programme a few months before the fight, where we had abolished the Inter-Resort Agency or the Drug Office, the government drug office, which had worked very successfully for several years, and carried all the problems to an office of the Ministry of Health. However, they should have such an office, a government office, an independent, inter-ministerial office linking both health care and law enforcement agencies, as it is also drug trafficking, large-scale crime, drug money laundering, and so on. For this reason, there must be an Interdepartmental Office, which is independent in its action and under the direct action of the Prime Minister. Such an Office was established in accordance with the 1961 United Nations Convention, in accordance with the 1971 United Nations Convention, in accordance with the 1988 United Nations Convention, in accordance with the United Nations Programme, which was adopted several years ago in Vienna and in accordance with the 2000 European Union Strategy, which was adopted and directly stated that all countries must establish national coordination mechanisms and appoint national coordinators who are independent, directly influenced by the Government and so on. We have done exactly the opposite in this mandate. I would like to list something else in the health field that I know a little bit better, a number of these things that we have done in this mandate, how we have coordinated things, under the terms "coordinated" with the direction of the European Union. [[End warning sign]] so it's actually funny how well we say here, what we're going to do to bring Europe into line, so we could really, if we were to think seriously, put our country in standard, in the way we work, in relations and, of course, in wages. I thank you for the 25 seconds you've given me now more than you've previously deleted from my college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. John Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, I would like to touch only some of the areas listed in the declaration or also in the additional text annexed. The first area that I think is very important to me is education, training and youth. Among the priorities of Slovenia is - and I support - the adoption of a new generation of community programmes after 2006. And as a country, we support the proposal to transform the two Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci programmes into an integrated lifelong learning and youth-specific programme for the youth target. I support this direction. The declaration itself also states that, with the principle of support of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy as a country, we will focus on promoting investment in education. This is in relation to the finding set out in the document and "the objectives of the new programmes can only be achieved with a substantial increase in funding for this area." This is said to be the area of young people or education that will need more resources Another area that is also very important is culture and sport. My colleague Majda Shirca already talked about it, commented on it, and supported it. Speaking of Slovenia's priorities, it mentions that Slovenia will support dialogue, exchanges between citizens of Member States and third-country nationals in the context of European cultural diversity, promoting mutual understanding and European identity as a complement to the activities of Member States in promoting cultural diversity. That's the direction I support. However, this segment would also benefit from a sentence which would state that Slovenia will maintain, as a priority, one of the most understandable guidelines to support the use of Slovenian as one of the official languages of the European Union at all levels within the European Union. I have not observed such commitments in this document, which is a declaration by the National Assembly; perhaps I have read superficially. I would also like to touch on the area which I mentioned earlier on behalf of the Group of Members. These are Slovenia's priorities in cohesion policy. It's a very specific area. Thus, we say: "Effectively drawing on the allocations from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund includes, in particular, the early implementation of calls, the preparation of sufficient quality projects by non-governmental partners and, consequently, the early launch of projects." It therefore includes the early implementation of tenders. I'd like to be very specific here. These days, a call for a European Regional Development Fund, Action 1 through 2, is under way to promote the development of political destinations. And in our direction, we say that we will support the preparation of a sufficient number of quality projects and the early launch of projects. But the invitation to tender is very important. Let me be very specific. This call for the European Regional Development Fund was expected by many tourism operators with great interest. And this call has also set out, defined an area, a wider area of the Julian Alps. As a wider area of the Julian Alps, the areas covered by the municipalities of Bled, Bohinj, Bovec, Jesenice, Kobarid, Kranjska Gora, Radovljica, Tolmin and Žirovnica were listed. Some other congregations, which have always been designated on the basis of official materials as a wider area of the Julian Alps, if I mention the railways, the Cerkno or Idrija, are not present in this call. When we looked at the document of the Office for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Slovenia, we found a map of Slovenian municipalities in the Alpine Convention area. There, on this map, which is an official document, were these congregations, which I have just mentioned, and unfortunately they are not in the invitation to tender. What do we do now? These are some of the areas, some of the municipalities that were expecting this call. They were very active in the area of tourist attractions. If I mention the very specific ski center Cerkno, there are between 100,000 and 120 thousand tickets sold per year, a visit to the Franja hospital, the city museum Idrija, the silver mine, Antoni trench. Or perhaps geographical information that, as an Alpine climate and in the sense of mountain climbs, is always mentioned as a rise to the Tax. This is a high hill in Cerkno Congregation. So what to do if the government department makes a call for you, because we have written in the document, the early implementation of the calls, the preparation of a sufficient number of quality projects and the early launch of the projects. What to do if there is an incredible flaw and error in such an invitation to tender that several municipalities are not defined arbitrarily as a wider area of the Julian Alps. In my view, there has been a major professional error of those who have proposed such an invitation to tender. The tourism economy in these areas has been severely affected. I also expect that this error will be rectified as soon as possible under the formal options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u57	Thank you very much. There is no one to call on the Lord the Kopushar. [[...]] Brenčič is not here. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll talk a few words about security and defence policy. Five years ago, the European Union said, but now we will certainly be "player" in this story. And she wasn't a player. Then it happened to Kosovo, where it would have been a complete disaster if the Americans hadn't come to help Europe. The French and the Dutch, the Italians, were all completely powerless. When Iraq happened, neither the French nor the Germans went to Iraq, the Spanish went home. And this Europe, which cannot defend itself, which is a military dwarf, is full of big words, and is headed by the old European Union High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy. As long as we have people like Javier Solana, there is really no danger in Europe of an effective European defence and security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Those who have yet to speak are not in the hall. That's why I'm asking the government representative, would you like a word? Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? I invite the Minister without a department responsible for European affairs, Mag. Milana Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on some comments from Members and Members of Parliament. In the introduction, I would like to say that, above all, the document "Priority Tasks" needs to be understood as a guide to the functioning of representatives or officials of the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union bodies. Therefore, this document, although having more than 60 pages and a series of annexes, can no longer constitute a document that would define all views in more detail or that would specify in the documents how individual priorities will also be implemented. The aim of the document is to take into account the drafts of these legislative and other acts being examined by the Council of the European Union, which is why, at the beginning of each individual chapter, first of all, I do not know, I give an example of 'equality and non-discrimination', as the European Union sees it and then what would be like within these basic proposals of the European Union, the Commission of the European Union, the basic, initial position of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, an appropriate position in the government or in the National Assembly will be established on the competent authorities of the Council of the European Union before deciding on individual issues. In this context, the purpose of this second document is primarily to prepare Slovenia for effective work in the world of the European Union. In this regard, I would then comment on a number of specific questions raised by individual Members, where I would first answer questions relating to the adaptation protocol to the trade agreement, in which things are being implemented and in this way tried as much as possible, I would say, to reduce the negative effect from the fact that, of course, when we entered the customs union with the EU of 25 members, we cannot be in the customs union at the same time with some other countries with which we had this earlier. However, we want to reduce these potential negative effects as soon as possible by adapting protocols and supporting the accession of these countries to candidate status. I would also like to comment on a few questions related to the Government's preparations for drawing up the Structural Funds. In this regard, it is worth noting that, in accordance with the programme at the end of December or 11 December 2003, the Government approved a single programming document for the period 2004, 2006 that the Supervisory Committee for the Implementation of the Single Programming Document, which records the main substantive activities in the field of structural policies, has also developed appropriate additions and implementation structures of the measures and that the Government has then adopted, at its meetings on 18 March and 29 April 2004, appropriate regulations on the implementation of the Structural Policy appropriations and have also been or have been initiated the tendering procedures themselves. In this regard, for example, it is worth commenting that some of the projects mentioned by individual Members, such as the second track of Divaca-Koper, are not known where they are, to stress that these projects are already in the current financial perspective and are envisaged to draw funds from cohesion funds to a certain extent. Both the Prime Minister and I, of course, have said in the introduction that it is extremely important that, in this year and in the coming years, we improve the efficiency of the state administration and of all project preparers as much as possible to draw on these funds. In addition, it is worth stressing that since 1992, Slovenia has been drawing more than 120 billion funds in various forms of Phare pre-structural instruments programmes and this has, of course, been a basic confirmation to us that if this work continues, as outlined in the relevant regulations, we will be able, even in the current financial perspective and in the new financial perspective, to draw on the appropriate amount of resources. Several questions related to the story of asylum were mentioned. We have already discussed this on the European Affairs Commission itself. Here Slovenia is prepared that as soon as the directive on minimum standards is adopted, and with regard to this Directive, on 29 April this year, a political consensus was reached in the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union on the general approach, after this document has been adopted, of course, submitted to the European Parliament and then adopted, and adoption is envisaged in the European Parliament towards the end of this year, then, of course, we will be able to propose an appropriate amendment to the Asylum Act in Slovenia. I would also like to comment on some statements by Members that the Netherlands has vetoed the draft budget. That's not true. No Member State has vetoed the draft budget proposal on 11 May but it is noted that the budgetary adoption process continues smoothly. Of course, it is important that the draft budget proposal for 2005 is as substantively agreed, even if it concerns relations or Slovenia already in the accession contract itself, in order to provide for an adequate increase in payments, both on the basis of enlargement, the projected increase in payments of EUR 3.8 billion, the reforms of the common agricultural policy and the more efficient implementation of projects under the Structural Funds, allowing everything that we have negotiated to be a net recipient of funds on the contractual elements. All of this also in the current financial perspective, says the 2005/2006 budget is actually being realised. I would also like to comment on the positive assessment by the Government that, as has been estimated, the parliamentary groups support both documents. We are pleased, of course, that the comments and suggestions on these two documents have been very detailed for individual debaters, but we would like to emphasise - let us say one example is on page 9 of this document - the table commented that, of course, Slovenia has written, on page 9, I will quote: "There will certainly be an interesting debate on the Stability Pact, in particular with regard to the further implementation of the Stability Pact." I must say that the party is talking about what the thinking is like within the European Union. However, once Slovenia’s priorities regarding the Stability Pact are presented on page 10 below, it is clear that Slovenia already takes into account the European Union’s macro-economic policy guidelines and meets the requirements for public finances supervision and that Slovenian fiscal policy follows the definition of a Stability and Growth Pact. In this respect, of course, this expected position of Slovenia is also relevant in the document, and it is clear that this is true when we describe the situation in the European Union, that the question of the outcome of the hearing in the European Court of Justice will also have an important impact on the further implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact in Slovenia. As some MEPs have said, it is actually a new period in the enforcement or search for internal compromises, particularly in order to seek agreement within the EU, so we believe that both documents actually give this opportunity. I would then comment on some of the smaller positions of Members, such as the 'Schengen resource'. The Schengen resource is in the existing financial perspective precisely because of Slovenia. And, of course, we expect that, through the coordination process for the new financial perspective, the Schengen resource or the form of funding for the common external border will become an important priority for the European Union. If I conclude, the documents that are before us or the documents that you will adopt today allow the Government and the Government's representatives, the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels, to represent the relevant positions, and at the same time, primarily because of their content in the preparation of individual directives, determine how it will be necessary in the coming years, in particular in the coming financial years, to adjust the internal priorities of the budgets in order to make the European Union's resources available to the greatest extent possible. Maybe we've had two key processes in the past. One was the process of self-reliance; the other was the process of adapting to the European Union. With the entry into the European Union itself, and in particular with a view to considering how to implement the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia, which is very precisely described in the draft strategy for the development of Slovenia, there will be a public debate on this, in particular by how to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia, how within the development strategy of Slovenia to strengthen all the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, we believe that this will be a third period and, of course, will be very important in the years to come, within Slovenia, also to make these adjustments resulting from the European programme of directives, legislation, if you want, European policies. In this context, this entry into the European Union is not only a time when we will adapt to European policy, but a time when we will also fully introduce European policy and European policy in the domestic affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u61	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Igori of the Strumsnik. You don't want a word? Okay. A proposal from the amendment was also tabled as part of the complementary proposal, namely chapter 2004, European foreign security and defence policy. The amendments were tabled by Members, with first-signed Dorian Marshic. I ask, also taking into account the fact that the time set for this point has not yet run out, who would like to have a word with us in the time available at the time of this item of the agenda. Please, if you could raise your hand to share the time with me, there's still something left. Therefore, I also ask the opposition Members, who have, of course, grumbled that there is not enough time for the debate to be announced in this additional round, when the time is almost an hour. Thank you very much. Three came forward, five minutes each. Mr. Marshich, Mr. Sok, Mr. Podobnik. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would, of course, like to further explain the amendment's proposal to the complementary proposal, Slovenia's priorities in the field of European affairs for 2004, signed by 10 Members. However, this is an amendment to Chapter 2.4 of the European External Security and Defence Policy, which has also been drafted by the Committee on Foreign Policy in its complementary form. However, we would like to see the proposalers present in the text, which is that the Republic of Slovenia will actively pursue international controls and restrictions on the proliferation of small and light weapons in the Western Balkans as a contribution to the stability and security of the area. This is a policy that Slovenia can adopt under this programme and a priority. The fact is that Slovenia will chair the OSCE in 2005. The European Union, however, has a strong desire and ambition to address this area of control and non-proliferation of light and small arms through this organisation, as I said, which will be chaired by Slovenia. Slovenia is already active in the Western Balkans, and our ambition in particular is to give it a priority. That is, our country is very involved in the International Mine Action and Assistance Foundation and, on the other hand, with the organisation of assistance to children in overcoming the problems they have experienced in the armed conflicts themselves. This is about the fact that the European Union wants this area to become an area, a clean mine and, on the other hand, an area, of course, in the Western Balkans, an area that is controlled or purely light weapons. As we know, this is a major problem, not only in this area, because the weapons used are often the subject of the victims, but also more than just a min. On the other hand, it is simply that these weapons are also exported or transported from this area to other areas and to crisis areas and that Slovenia could face this policy in the context of an international community or a joint international effort. I hope you will support this amendment. In view of the fact that the Committee on Foreign Policy also adopted it in its discussion, when I suggested that this should be supplemented, it was accepted. That is what the colleague and the chair of this committee have already said in his opening address. However, this is also known and recorded in the record or report of the Committee, and this amendment has also been physically submitted to you for consideration and acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. The President-in-Office, whether we have enough time or not as opposition Members, is simply a splitter, a timetable and a schedule, and Members who will debate are announced. But those time-consuming parliamentary groups did not expect to be able to make their turn in this debate. So I signed up on my own because there's still plenty of time. However, I would like to clear up an area with government representatives. That is, in this amended proposal for a declaration of position for the entry into operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2004, in section 2.1.1.2, inclusion in the decision on legislative and other acts of the European Union [[it's on page 4]] Among other things, it reads: "In the field of agriculture, below the reform of the common agricultural policy," and then it is written in brackets, " [[in the field of common market arrangements for sugar and for fruit and vegetables]] and discuss further the development of rural development policy in the next financial perspective." So here I would like to ask and draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, the debate on the common European agricultural policy is taking place in the whole area, not only in the field of sugar, fruit and vegetables regulation. We and you are also aware of Commissioner Fischer's proposal to promote reform of the common agricultural policy in the direction of greater production incentives for small and medium-sized farms and intensively targeted farms, while, on the other hand, Germany and France are still opposed to such a proposal at this time. And it would be very good to have the Republic of Slovenia act in this direction, or the proposal of our government, our ministry, in order to record this in an act of further action. After all, I think the deadline is until the end of July, or perhaps by the end of August of this year, when Slovenia will have to decide whether to make a regional single payment in the common agricultural policy or whether it will choose the route of this so-called combined payment method, whereby one part would be paid per hectare and one part per mode or volume of production. Therefore, this document is missing to me at this point, or the government has not identified itself and has not indicated what kind of proposal, what steps it will take or which group of advocates of the common agricultural policy in the European Commission Slovenia will support. Of course, I think it is quite appropriate that, as a small country with this agricultural structure, we support the proposal of the current Commissioner Fischer, and, if so, I would, of course, expect that, in this document, which represents a complementary proposal for a declaration on our operation within the framework of the European Union in 2004, we would also make it clear. I don't know if you can answer that. From the field of agricultural representatives, no one is present in this debate, but I think this is an extremely important and important issue. This should also be resolved. I have also thought about writing, I myself have proposed some amendments in this direction, but because I have no doubt in the professional work of the government itself, which, according to some of the professional criteria, I have satisfied myself with this, which is what is written here. But I'd like to. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Because time allows us to do that if you can answer that. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Sponik, allow Mr. Squikel to respond to Mr. Sok. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u66	Mr. Ambassador. Of course, far from being at least a European Minister of Agriculture, I would only warn you that in the document "Priorities of Slovenia", point 2.4.3 of the broader document, the chapter "Agriculture and Food Safety" is a very precisely defined position of the Republic of Slovenia, coordinated to the full, of course with the competent Ministry. But why is that highlighted in the priorities? Because of our priorities, of course, we are talking about what will happen in 2004. And in 2004, after the amendment of the common market arrangements for milk, cereals was completed in 2003, and when it was equally accepted for hops, olive oil, tobacco and cotton in April 2004, they are in preparation for a change in the market order for sugar and for fruit and vegetables. And we will, of course, be directly involved in this from 1 May on. At the same time, the priority was, of course, highlighted that we want to participate in the debate on the further development of rural development policy in the next financial perspective, which is in line with the agricultural policy reform programme adopted in 1998 for the period 1999-2002 and the agricultural law. However, there are more detailed starting points for Slovenia's priorities and tasks in the priority document on the pages, point 2.4.3, so that I can also talk about this, but I believe that it is crucial that priorities highlight what is in the legislative programme in 2004, and all that will happen in 2004 will have a bearing on the next financial perspective 2007-2011, which, of course, will have a major discussion both within Slovenia and in particular, as you said, within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sponik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'll get back to you. In the field of Slovenia's negotiating priorities, regarding the new cohesion policy regulations for the next financial period. In general, the Minister has already commented on something, but allow me, once again, I will try to be very clear and define what the problem is. In our declaration is the following commitment: "Slovenia agrees with the Commission's proposal on cohesion policy." Do we agree? Then our wish follows, "in doing so, to advocate that geographical areas that will lose eligibility status due to the enlargement of the EU itself, this is due to the so-called statistical impact, should have access in the next financial perspective to more EU funding for structural purposes than those areas that have lost their eligibility status due to the level of their economic development achieved." So one of the possible disappointments, even in Slovenia, can be linked to this area. And now for a specific question. I once quoted a comment from yesterday's performances by two of our ministers, Dr. Marble, and Dr. Dimovski, in Brussels on this subject. Next point. The statistical impact of enlargement will mainly affect the regions of the Member States so far, but also some new ones. This is those who would be treated in the EU 15 as less developed in the EU, and 25 countries have crossed the average solely for enlargement and not for development. The statistical impact of enlargement is likely to also affect Slovenia, which is therefore very interested that these regions will actually receive special assistance. In our declaration, we say that "we agree with the Commission's proposal for cohesion policy." And the Commission in this area says it will be helping only the 15 countries, not the 25 countries. Does this conclude that this is the case? If that is the case, then I would like to ask the representatives of the government whether you are assessing that this commitment, which is written here, we will only stand up for geographical areas and so on, but also get help. The Commission already has its own proposal for the next financial perspective. Does it seem logical for us to put such an attitude in a declaration?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u70	Mr Podobnik, look, this position is very correct and very accurate and correctly written - what the Republic of Slovenia wants. The Republic of Slovenia does not want anything else, since we no longer have old and new members since 1 May, we only have members to do what will apply to EU members, to EU regions affected by the statistical effect that this also applies to the Republic of Slovenia, because, of course, the Republic of Slovenia, as one of the few regions, will now be used in calls from the "new members" in the same situation as some other regions. That is why we, of course, support the Commission's proposal, because the Commission itself has proposed a so-called'statistical facting out' and so-called 'natural facting out', a distinction between the two for members, and of course we are a member. And, of course, it is right that we agree with the Commission's proposal, which is an important emphasis, but of course we want these regions affected by the statistical impact to have access to a greater volume of resources. And here's the emphasis, to a greater extent than those of nature. Thus, I think that both Minister Dimovski and the Minister of Finance are fully in line with this material, in fact, they have said what Slovenia stands for, and we advocate that we be treated equally as a member of the European Union. And this, of course, is something that has been discussed in the organs, and it is right that, of course, we represent it now on this path. It is important, however, that in the way of 'facing out', there is a real reduction in resources for those affected by the statistical impact, it is advocated that this reduction in resources will be slower for these regions, which have gone beyond 75% due to the statistical impact, than for the regions that have been affected by natural development. That's exactly the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to replicate to the Minister. In fact, I understood your explanation, I understood the text in our declaration, but I have before me a report from yesterday's performance by our two ministers in Brussels, and this report is, unfortunately, different from what the Minister has just explained to us. I'll read it again. "The European Commission is in the proposal for a future EU financial perspective, which will outline the overall consumption of the link between 2006 and 2013, and also in the report on economic and social cohesion in the EU, which outlines the new cohesion policy guidelines during this period, otherwise foresees assistance to regions affected by the statistical impact, but in principle only to those of the Member States to date. I hope then that this formulation is wrong and that your formulation is correct. If yours is correct, I fully support it, but if this one is correct, which it says here, then we have a bad chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u74	If I see it right, you're reading what. [[The answer from the bench.]] Yeah. Of course, we are quoting and asserting the fundamental right that all members with May 1st are just members. This has been highlighted at several meetings and it is about equality of members and, of course, we support'statistical finding out'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I conclude the general debate on the complementary proposal for a declaration and on the amendment. Please, everyone, come to the hall, because we are going to make a vote or make a decision. We will first decide on the amendment of Members with the first-signed Dorian Marshic and then vote on the proposal for a declaration in full. I know that MEPs and Members expected the debate on Point 1 to last an hour longer; this was envisaged in view of the time notified by the groups. Even when I asked after the rerun, because an hour and fifteen minutes of time were available, there was no desire to discuss it. So we're moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the proposal by the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dorian Marshic. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving to a full vote on the proposal for a declaration. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the declaration has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 2. POINT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF SUPPLEMENTS BY THE OFFICER OF THE STATE CONGREGATION, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Mr Anton Anderlić, to which I give the floor to an additional explanation. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u76	The National Assembly has adopted a law on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia under the conditions of the European Union, which means the relation of the national assembly and the determination of views to all the tasks of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to membership. It was therefore laid down the concept that all parliamentary groups, on the basis of this law, would also draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, where full cooperation between Members, Members of the groups, as well as at the end of the National Assembly in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the coordination, negotiation and decision-making process of the European Union on important or most crucial decisions. We have had a series of meetings, although we have understood that the revision of the Rules of Procedure has only complemented and upgraded what we have adopted by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 3a, by adopting the Act on the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia, the relationship between Parliament and the Government under the conditions of the European Union, that the revision of the Rules of Procedure will only be the highlight of this and that we will be able to agree within this on a way of working which will allow all Members and Members to express their views, as well as ensuring the effective functioning of the State Assembly in this process, and that this will help to some extent to relieve unnecessary debates in the formulation of final positions. Unfortunately, we have not been able to sign all the parliamentary groups or to sign the amendments to this Rules of Procedure and to defend the same positions. But in the end, I believe that we have found a compromise that will follow those basic guidelines that we have been following for several years, so that the Republic of Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union, will participate in the formulation of the policies of the European Union in a way that will round up its contribution in a constructive way and that, on the other hand, it will understand the specifics of other countries and incorporate them into its functioning. And that the way of working in the National Assembly will by no means prevent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from representing Slovenian interests in the institutions of the European Union and that it will ultimately be best for Slovenia. And if it is best for Slovenia, I have no doubt that this will be the best way of shaping the positions and solutions that we will shape through this process, even for the European Union community. I therefore propose to Members and Members that we also adopt a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure and that for a further period of time we regulate a way of working that will not always raise doubts about whether it is working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether it is working in accordance with democratic rules, or whether it is working in accordance with certain expectations, and in particular that it will allow everyone to express what he wishes to say and what he wishes to do in the context of the legislative procedure, within the framework of the functioning of the National Assembly. This is what our task is, that is, to follow our programmes and what we are in the national assembly for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft Rules of Procedure were treated by the Rules of Procedure Commission as a working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Bojan Kontic, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Legislative and Legal Service has prepared draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure. At several meetings and working meetings of the Commission, we have tried to harmonise this proposal to the extent that it could be signed by all the parliamentary groups or representatives of the parliamentary groups. A number of compromises have been concluded. Let me just point out that we have removed permanent alternate members from the draft, and we have then forwarded such a draft to all parliamentary groups for signature. However, it seems that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmonised to the extent that these parliamentary groups have also signed it. At the 16th urgent meeting of 5.5.2004, the Commission considered the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and admission in a reduced procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed Member, Mr Tonet Anderlic. The Commission has received an opinion on the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure and within the legal time limit, it is said, within the time limit prescribed, also by the amendments of Members, Mr Francet Tsukati and Mr Alojz Sok, as well as the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A first-signed representative of the applicants participated in the discussion with his explanations and proposals. In the discussion on the individual articles of the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the amendments tabled in the individual Article of the proposal, the amendment applicants explained the reasons why they propose individual solutions in the amendments. The opposition's representatives cited the arguments that made their amendments to the proposal seem justified. The representative of the government explained in the debate the reasons why the government, through the amendment proposal, would like to clarify the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure in the light of the practice it has in its work with the institutions of the European Union. In the debate, the Secretary-General of the General Assembly and the Secretary of the Rule of Law explained the individual solutions and reasons for them in the proposal for additions and participated in the drafting of the amendments adopted by the Commission as their own. The members of the Commission supported the amendment of Ambassador France Tsukati to 154.b., the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to 154.f. and 154. The other amendments were not supported by Members or members of the Commission. On the basis of the debate and comments made by the representatives of the legislative and legal services, the Commission has drawn up and adopted as its amendments: at 154.g., 154.i., 154.j. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure, which is included in the report, is prepared at the meeting of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We will hear the views of the members of the groups. I invite Mr Bogdan Barovic to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. We also discussed the completion of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly yesterday at a joint session at the time when Slovenia entered the European Union, with the Associated Parliamentary Committee, on the addition of the Rules of Procedure, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is already too late. This Rules of Procedure should be designed, drawn up and in force at a time when we are already in the European Union. That would be good. It is the Rules of Procedure, or the addition of the Rules of Procedure, that we know that Slovenia's entry into the European Union or the already adopted Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government. The maximum supplement refers to paragraph 154 in the codes A to M and defines the procedure and method of treatment. In the first part, we have expressed in the Slovenian National Party a skepticism or doubt, or, if you wish, a disappointment that there are still two committees that will regulate these matters. That is why some brief contacts have taken place today. I must say that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group has basically opposed the adoption of legislation in cooperation between the national assembly and the government, but not in thought, but for the following reasons. Because we estimate that the National Assembly still lacks sufficient powers, or, if you wish otherwise, it lacks the powers that we think it should have. Above all, in the Slovenian National Party Group, we opposed and opposed the legislation of the closed meetings of the competent working bodies that were held yesterday. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and my personal opinion, given that I was present, this closure was, in fact, once again pointless. There was nothing like this that the public should not have heard, we listened to reports about what had happened at that time, and we learned what was going to happen or what was going on in Europe today when the Minister of Finance was there. All that happened was that the presence of those who are publicising at the press conference, where the chairman yesterday, Comrade Chairman of the Associated Parliamentary Committee, Mr Jakič, said that the press and those who would inform the public was sufficient. I don't know, 15 or 20 minutes, maybe a bit too much time for another job. The information provided by a colleague of the Chair of the Association Parliamentary Committee was exactly the same as the information that the public could hear or could hear from the rapporteurs' mouth. Thus, the Slovenian National Party continues to insist that it is better to keep the meetings of the competent working bodies open or exceptionally closed, but this is how the ruling coalition voted and we estimate that this is not good. We also point out in the Slovenian National Party that I warned myself yesterday that I will not invent "hot water" that it is 3a. Article of the Constitution, contrary to the provision of the Rules of Procedure in the recital. It says so, "as determined by 3a. Article of the Constitution, supposed to be the government across the street" - is supposed to stress: the government is supposed to " keep the national assembly informed of all relevant matters". 3a. The article of the Constitution is quite clear and says, "in the procedures for the adoption of legal acts and decisions on international organisations to which Slovenia transfers the exercise of the work of sovereign rights, the government informs" - that is, the Constitution: the government informs; the introduction to the Rules of Procedure: it should inform from the outset. We have competent legal services in the legislative branch of power [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and I call, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, for, if not substantively, at least nominally clarify this duality and contradiction. [[...]] Since my time has run out, I am ending, and I ask again, let us be at least nomotechnical and substantive, legislatively, compared to the constitution-law worthy of our name, i.e. the legislative branch of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. The LDS Group will support the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, the National Assembly has adopted two acts which can be considered a legal basis for adopting the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure which are before us. These are two acts, namely the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which a new Article 3a was added in the first chapter, which laid down the constitutional basis for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU. And the second is the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the government on EU matters. In order to complement the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in EU matters are particularly important. It means the legal framework for the preparation of additions to the rules of procedure governing the establishment of new working bodies, the organisation and work of these staff and the National Assembly, and the procedure for examining positions in European matters. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we assess that it is essential that the National Assembly at this meeting adopt the additions to the Rules of Procedure so that working bodies can be established as soon as possible and that the participation of the National Assembly and the Government starts in accordance with the provisions of the law. In addition to establishing the procedure for the examination and adoption of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the national assembly, the rules of procedure for the adoption or determination of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in amending the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, and for the procedure and treatment and adoption of a declaration with observations on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the EU in the coming period. The Rules of Procedure also provide for detailed reporting by the Government on its activities in the EU world, as well as for the way in which the public is informed. Complements of the Rules of Procedure are very important in the part where they define the role of the EU Affairs Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy, which deal with and adopt positions on European matters where they are not decided by the national assembly at the meeting. The LDS Group will also support the proposed rules of procedure that follow the practice of most EU Member States and ensure a rapid and effective decision-making on boards, bearing in mind that the treatment process will have to be guided in a timely manner so that the working bodies will adopt their definitions in a timely manner, allowing the government of the EU world to take into account the positions taken in the framework of the National Assembly. We also think it appropriate that the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure for the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in European matters lays down a simple procedure for dealing with matters which undoubtedly follows the principle of rationality and efficiency in the decision-making of committees, and we believe that it is a perfectly appropriate solution to deal with the proposal for amendments to the Treaties on which the EU is founded, which, when determining the procedure, makes sense to follow the legislative procedure. We will also support the solution proposed for the replacement members of the so-called European Committees, although the individual Members and Members of our Group are not too favoured by this solution, as the proposal does not follow the practice of the Member States of the EU, which have an established institution of permanent deputy. With the aim of finding a compromise and the necessary quorum for the adoption of additions to the Rules of Procedure, we will support the solution proposed, bearing in mind that, in the design of working bodies, the proposed solution has the greatest responsibility for the effective and quality work of the future committees of the political parties themselves represented in the National Assembly. However, we will not support the amendments tabled in the parliamentary group, as these amendments have already been tabled at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission, but the legislative and legal service has given a negative opinion to the proposed amendments and it should also be stressed that more than 80% of the proposed amendments have been summarised in coordination itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for prepared amendments and the updating of the Rules of Procedure concerning the role and manner of work of the National Assembly in European matters. We believe that the preparations for drafting the content of the Rules of Procedure have been correct and thorough. We had the opportunity to participate with them from all parliamentary groups. I think that this was a form of work that indicated a great willingness to reach an agreement and consensus and that, at least with regard to the preparation of this Rules of Procedure, it cannot be said that the representatives of the coalition, I agree, aware of the fact that the necessary 2/3 of the majority is also necessary. We have been open to many of the suggestions coming from opposition parliamentary groups, and we have actually accepted everything at work. Therefore, I must say that I was surprised when we later did not, as agreed, represent all the parliamentary groups as proposing this Rules of Procedure, because I considered this to be a corrective procedure and the conclusion of this procedure. For us, the solutions provided by supplementing the Rules of Procedure are acceptable. Two working bodies will be formed which will be directly responsible for deciding the national assembly on the issues that Slovenia co-decisions with the other twenty-five countries in the European Union, except when it decides on the national assembly. It normally seems to us that the composition of these working bodies is proportional, as it reflects the composition of the national assembly, which was formed by the national elections. We believe that it is good and right that particular emphasis is placed on the definition that one of the vice-presidents is always of the opposition species and that this allows the opposition to participate in the production of these two working bodies, just as we have in the composition of the National Assembly, which concerns me and our Group of Members, that is to say, in principle, that the President is also of the kind of coalition - I say in principle, what concrete agreement can be different - and I think it is good that the powers of both committees are sufficiently and clearly defined that they can work. On two issues, I am not sure that we could not have handled them better, but we could not have handled them better because we agreed to the requirements that the opposition Members and their parliamentary groups had during the coordination process. One more emphasis is on the composition of the European Affairs Committee, in particular in terms of cooperation in this Committee, the largest possible number of the most responsible presidents or vice-presidents from the so-called working bodies, namely those who will address the issues that the European Affairs Committee next gives its opinions to the government. This is not necessarily, I would say, a bad thing in this sense that we could not make it happen, but obligations are now, or there is no direction in the rules of procedure. And it will be necessary to do so in practice and in the composition of this working body, because this will certainly make the work better and easier. Secondly, we regret that no proposal has been adopted for permanent deputies, which is, at least after what we have watched and participated, the best European experience, European practice. And gentlemen who like to say how things are arranged in Europe could know that this is also regulated in Europe and that the aim of this permanent establishment is simply because it is a committee working on behalf of the national assembly as a whole, that as many members of the parliamentary group as possible are engaged in the work and that the possible absence is less painful through work than otherwise. We're sorry this wasn't accepted. Maybe we'll accept that at a later stage when we find out that this is bad. Otherwise, we'll be the rules of procedure. [[...]] [[Warning beep for the end of the debate.]] as it is prepared, supported and accepted. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u86	Dear Chairman! Fellow Members and Members! Perhaps it is a shame that we do not adopt this Rules of Procedure for a certain period of time, so that we can actually test how this Rules of Procedure will work. In view of the applicant's statement in the introductory explanation, if the rules of procedure were to be adopted and all Members were to be given the opportunity to give their views, it is somehow, I would say, on the basis of experience, difficult to expect. Indeed, the experience so far with the functioning of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is extremely negative as regards the opposition. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I can say that we have repeatedly protested that the current Rules of Procedure were being used by voting on the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thus, under the cover of reduced procedures, although the Rules of Procedure clearly and loudly say when a law may be adopted after a reduced procedure, there have been extensive amendments to certain laws. Not to explain here what not all colleges on a proposal from the government have put in an emergency procedure before this national assembly, and many times in extraordinary meetings. After all, we have adopted important system laws following an urgent procedure, assuming that in some way we have landed in the opposition that the legislation that was lacking to join the European Union is adopted in this way. To what we are experiencing now in the last period when, at extraordinary meetings, the opposition is limited in such a way as to deprive it of the possibility of debate in Parliament, to limit it to that minimum and then at the same meeting this small opposition must listen, I do not know that it is unstated, that it is destructive, that it is not responsible for the leadership of this country, except for matters relating to the European Union and so on. Dear colleagues from the post, this is no way to treat the opposition. So if I ever have the opportunity to be a member of the post - at least I will try again - I assure you that I would never defend such methods and such means because they are not state-favourable. Now let me go briefly to this proposal, which is before us, and which the proposer and other gentlemen say how to ideally resolve this relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So, I imagine, and in our New Slovenia Group, we are confident that these uses of the Rules of Procedure will only continue, or that they will be even more potential, because the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy for the Public will be closed. That being so, the fact is also that we have proposed several amendments with which we have tried to correct this business matter slightly, and the Rules of Procedure Commission has rejected all our amendments. Thus, in 154th Article, the fact remains that the Chairman of the committee responsible - and that is what we have heard from Mr Kacin today, who will be the chairman of the committee responsible for European Affairs [[Of course, all management functions will be taken up by a position, not as has somehow been agreed in the division so far.]] - at the meeting itself, extending the agenda by a mile, it will also be possible to withdraw certain items from this agenda; so that matters can be proposed on this agenda following an urgent procedure when the Chairman of the committee responsible assesses the need for an urgent procedure and so on. So the experience leads us to do so, and today you will find it difficult to convince us that it will be different in the future, but if so far it has been done according to the rule. This Committee on European Affairs will somehow be based on the views of the government and then the amendments adopted by the home [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - Do I have to finish? Just to conclude - to be adopted by the parent working committees, it confirmed and voted. [[...]] So, in our opinion, this will act as some kind of delegational system without people sitting on this committee knowing and disclosing exactly what they are going to do. So we will not support the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. We believe that if this is not supported enough, that this proposal can be further improved and actually made to act on principle as it does in the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, it really wasn't right what you said in the introduction. That is, that you are so limited in this extraordinary session that you cannot speak to Members and Members of the opposition. The notified time of all parliamentary groups for this extraordinary meeting was 16 hours and 16 minutes. On the basis of the agreement, 14 hours of discussion have been approved. And in the morning, Mr President explained if, at one point, which point someone wanted to continue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, one more hour of discussion, the National Assembly would decide. And as you have seen, Mr Sok, at the previous point, not only was there not enough time an hour was even exceeded on the basis of all the time that has been outvoted. So please, it may be your position to stress at each performance that you do not have the opportunity to speak, but it is right that we are correct and say that this is not the case. Mr. Tsukati will present his position. We're not gonna talk here right now. I explained what went on at college, and that's true, there won't be any controversy. Mr. Cukjat will present [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u88	Please, Madam President, for the replica. You who respect order, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u89	Groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Sok. You disagree with my explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u90	Of course not, because in this, if you'll excuse me, one sentence is that I don't waste this precious time on this national council. But we're not just in this national council today. We have been in this National Assembly for three and a half years, and I have been talking about this period that has happened recently. You're talking about today's session. It was also here on the basis of an agreement, an agreement without the opposition. On the basis of an agreement without the opposition! I was talking about the sessions that were behind us. At the previous extraordinary session, where for the first time at least you have very restrictively set us a time to discuss and you have not given us the opportunity to discuss major problems in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Again due to correctness. The College in which the opposition parliamentary groups participated was agreed that, when we consider four items of the agenda, all parliamentary groups, not only your own, qualified time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, could report to one point. You're the one who voted him out for more points. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I'm not going to argue, but the readings aren't correct. [[...]] Mr Tsukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Peace in the hall! And I ask you, however, to refrain from making such comments when you present your views. Please! Mr. Jakich, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm sad, Madam President, that you're so misleading with your explanations. But let's leave. Let's go to the point. We have before us a change in the rules of procedure which, of course, solves the issue and determines how the national assembly should regulate the matters provided for by the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government. These are matters which, of course, are not as much internal Slovenian as they are supposed to be taken by the State as uniformly as possible. And we all agree that in such cases, however, this National Assembly must be able to adopt the most consistent, country-specific, unified position and that in these views, the foreign affairs must not be reflected in the party's position or the mutual opposition and so on. This also led to the adoption of a law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government by a two-thirds majority. With a large majority, as well as a referendum to join the European Union and to join NATO's defence alliances, we received a large majority. Indeed, the law, which is the basis for these business provisions, was adopted by a large majority. After long-term coordination, there was a solution that meant a unanimous or good solution for all the parties in the national assembly. At that time only the Slovenian National Party separated from the law. There are few such moments, few of them in this national assembly, and in our policy at all, mean a cohesive force, a force of union, a force of unity. There are few such points; there are few such laws; there are few such issues that are addressed in the National Assembly. I would like, or our Group of Members, to be able to make use of such points, combining points, cohesion points, also in the National Assembly, in order to overcome, however, internal contradictions of such or different natures and in matters in which we certainly all have a good purpose and we want Slovenia's well-being in order to be able to find unification in those matters. The Rules of Procedure before us were coordinated, first of all in college. I must say that there have been quite a few discussions and views were adopted on how to finalize the text. And with those views that have not yet been written, we have agreed on all the parties, and so have we. Then some additional words, some changes, came into the record; you know, sometimes the comma means a lot. We would like to see this deviation that occurred at the time with the last text that was given to us in the debate, now that the last moment for it has been removed, and the text has been aligned. In our opinion, there are two issues. One question was whether the Chairman of the committee responsible could set the agenda himself, or whether it should be as in the Rules of Procedure, for all committees and commissions where he proposed the agenda. The College or the President of the National Assembly shall also propose a agenda for the meeting of the National Assembly and shall be adopted here before the agenda is taken into account. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Well, that's one point of view that should be supplemented. I will explain the second position in the course of the debate, because time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the complementary proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure. First of all, as you may have noticed, we have two amendments, namely two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party, both tabled in the first article, which is Article 154. So, first, after the debate on the two amendments of the two parliamentary groups, we will, of course, vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and then on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, if the first one was not adopted, as it amends paragraph 154. So I am putting both amendments to the first article to the debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. 154. Article 3 states how a State assembly should act when, in accordance with a law adopted by a two-thirds majority, a qualified majority or qualified proposer requires a discussion and adoption of positions in the national assembly. The law thus states: "At the request of at least a quarter of the Members" and so on "the EU case, the European case referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, of this Act shall be discussed by the national assembly and adopted in respect of it the views of the Republic of Slovenia". The law continues: "The requirement set out in the preceding paragraph must contain a proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia on a European case." It is therefore a question of who will draw up a proposal to be addressed by the National Assembly, which will be voted on in the National Assembly, a proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia, which will then be represented by the Government in Brussels. The law states that the 23 Members may request an extraordinary meeting, but these 23 Members should propose such a proposal, and should draw up a text to be considered in the national assembly. This is a perfectly normal starting point, very quality. Indeed, this article has been adopted as an exception to the fact that, in exceptional cases, a college of the national assembly, or a group of Members, or a parent working body or a competent working body may require a hearing in the national assembly, or that most cases will always take place by means of a government proposal, the European Committee will deal with it, and it will adopt a position on behalf of the national assembly and the matter will go back to the government and this will not burden the entire national assembly. In this case, however, when dealing with a national assembly, the law provides that a proposal for a position shall be drawn up by the person requiring such a discussion. Well, the Rules of Procedure, the proposed Rules of Procedure, say that this text, this proposal is not prepared by the one that requires discussion, but by the committee responsible for European affairs. That doesn't seem right to us. I am sure that the committee responsible should present its opinion on the draft, on the proposal to deliver its opinion, that is perfectly correct and correct, but that the proposer of the text should remain the one who requires that consideration in the national assembly. Furthermore, the rules of procedure without a legal basis also stipulate that such proposals, which are made by a qualified proposer, are thus a group of Members to discuss in the National Assembly that such views are possible only as amendments on a proposal from the Government. We do not think it is good that this is contrary to the law we have adopted by a two-thirds majority, that we are in violation of the independence of the national assembly, that, in exceptional cases, it is possible for the Government to adopt its own positions, which will then be represented in Brussels, and that if we adopt the rules of procedure such as this, without our amendment, the State Assembly will, in a manner of speaking out of its independence as provided by the Constitution. Therefore, our proposal is that, where, in accordance with the law, the proposer requires a meeting of the national assembly and at this meeting, the consideration of a particular content specified by the proposal to draw up this proposal in accordance with the law, then this proposal should also be given to the committee responsible for its consideration, so that it can also propose a separate text to the national assembly, and that these texts are not always or cannot always be treated as an amendment to the Government proposal. We believe that the proposer can either make an amendment on a proposal from the government, or propose a separate new supplement to the views, or a short new position. Because we can imagine a hypothetical situation where the government won't want to propose a good proposal, that could happen. We will not always have to be a bit of a picker, as ideal a government as it is now, can happen that we have a worse one - say yes, Mr Vukko - and in this case the State Assembly will not have a mechanism so that it can independently propose a new position, a different position. We don't think we should let that happen. We talked a lot about the independence of the National Assembly and discussed the adoption of the law that we adopted for this two-thirds majority. We believe that this has paid off, that this autonomy is, in some ways, at least to a minimum guaranteed to the National Assembly. It is also appropriate to insist on maintaining at least part of the autonomy of the National Assembly when adopting this Rules of Procedure. Of course, we believe that the rules of procedure, unless our amendment is adopted, is not good and, of course, we will reject it. I therefore urge Members to accept, support this amendment, and thus ensure that the Rules of Procedure are adopted in a short time, as is said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please. Someone might have accidentally turned on the microphone. You can try again, Mr. Petty Officer. I can't see the lights anywhere. It's working, Mr. Tiny. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u96	The aim of these two amendments is, of course, to consolidate the role of the National Assembly, which has been through these initiatives, in our opinion, which are not the most sophisticated; but this role has been minimised. When we look at other assemblies, national, in other European countries, we see that the role of the National Assembly must be put in the right place to form positions, not only by assisting. Not just that. There is something else that is happening to develop services, technical, expert positions and independent views of other government institutions within the framework of the National Assembly. This has been explained to us in the Danish and Finnish parliaments. So it's not just about how the National Assembly is going to or just how the committee is going to discuss it, but how we're going to get these positions, who's going to design them. In our case, like the will and desire of ruling parties, there would only be confirmation. Our proposal for an amendment is also aimed at defining the basis of the college decision, not on the basis of weight, but on the basis of the majority of the members. Of course, you will oppose this in the ruling coalition, but this is the principle that the college should be corrective. And only in this way can we come up with an appropriate corrective mechanism in order to re-judge and re-decision on the points of view. In this respect, the amendment of New Slovenia is necessary and, of course, it must be accepted. Also, that I will not reinterpret the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We solved this complication, and failed, even before the introduction of the law, when we discussed this topic in college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please. Mr. Sok, did you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u98	Just for a little while. When I look at the contents of both amendments, particularly the SDS amendment, I think the solution is logical and will in fact prevent any complications in the future. I imagine that today's amendment to the Rules of Procedure has been adopted for several years. We have only one experience of how we came to some very important positions of the Republic of Slovenia today, which we then accepted as a national assembly in the form of a declaration. In fact, we've completely copied the government's material. And we have written just a few new highlights on foreign security policy and adopted the minimum amendment. In fact, however, we have taken together government material in its entirety. And this amendment here is clear. He says that when a qualified proposer requests that the National Assembly address the views, he first discusses what his request must contain, and above all says that there must also be a proposal for new opinions or a proposal for amendments, or to supplement the existing positions of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment seems consistent to me. I think we can support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I think it is difficult at this point to anticipate all the consequences that the amendment of this Rules of Procedure will have for our further work, but some of them are already written here and can be foreseen. As I understand this provision of Article 1, the role of the parent work bodies in the future will, of course, be completely minimised. While these parent working bodies will be able to propose some of their amendments, these amendments can also be good, they will be able to fully follow the definitions in this professional working body, but as long as the government of the lower one is defined as negative, then both the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy on the basis of these positions of the government will simply act as - I don't know - I may be wrong to imagine, act as a voting machine. Because, most of the time on these committees, people from those parental committees who could further explain these matters will not further explain what is undoubtedly necessary for one of the right decisions. These meetings, these decisions in these two committees, will be taken at meetings which will be closed to the public and then a communication will be delivered after such a meeting by the chairman of the committee responsible for the public. With the amendment, we have tried to ensure that at least this message, which will go out to the public, has somehow been harmonised in the committee itself before, it is said, accepted. But this, our amendment, has also been rejected by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Thus, through this process, the public will be able to hear the views, always hearing the views of the ruling options. I am sure that this will take place and develop in this way. Otherwise, virtually in this record, with such solutions that are here, there can be no respected proponents. I will also touch on the amendment to the 154th Article, which, as it is written down, is, in fact, unreasonablely written in our opinion. See, the first paragraph of this Article reads: "When, on the basis of a request or decision, the College of the President of the National Assembly adopts the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the matter of the EU National Assembly, the competent committee shall prepare the material for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, taking due account of the procedure laid down in Article 154th of this Rules of Procedure." Then, in the following paragraph, the proposer proposes: "The matter or decision of the College of the National Assembly shall include a proposal for the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall be considered as an amendment to the proposal for positions submitted by the Government. The Government shall give an opinion on this proposal to the Republic of Slovenia." So I must say that I do not fully understand this paragraph. Does this mean that the College of the President of the National Assembly shall draw up a position and submit it as an amendment to the Government's position? For this reason, we have proposed that the second paragraph of Article 154 be deleted in order to amend the third paragraph, in conjunction with the first one, that the College take the decision referred to in the first paragraph of this Article by a majority of the votes of all members. So this is the debate we had in the National Assembly when we adopted the Rules of Procedure. In a sense, it is illogical that the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, and then the College may, by a simple majority or by a majority resulting from the representation in the College itself, adopt any decision by its own discretion, beyond that two-thirds majority which is necessary for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure or amendments to the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, we have proposed these amendments in the Group of Members. However, we also agree with the fact that the amendment of the SDS Group will first be voted on to adopt this amendment and then Article 154 will be completely amended, because in effect this proposal or our thoughts would be covered in article 154, as amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u102	At first glance, it seems that the matter of force is simple, but in fact, both in one way and in the other, it is necessary to take a closer look at what they are regulating. At the outset, I regret to conclude that Mr Sok's amendment, or the New Slovenia Group of Members, is setting up an arrangement that we have already exceeded. After all, we have arranged for the college to reflect the relative representation of Members in the parliamentary groups, and this also means a real relationship in the national assembly. It would be quite amazing and funny that in a college where there are 8 members and that the vote with two Members in the Group of Members would count the same as the vote with 34 Members. We get a distorted picture, we don't get a real reflection of what happens in the National Assembly. The College is a form of work that does more rationally what the National Assembly of Hours and Hours would discuss in the membership of the 90 Members, and ultimately the decision would depend on the vote and the number of Members participating in the group. It seems to me that this amendment is two years ago compared to the debate we had when we adopted the new rules of procedure. As far as the amendment of the Social Democratic Party is concerned, according to the old Slovenian Democratic Party, but I am not quite sure because you have performed as a Social Democratic Party on the same lists. I believe that this is all right at the level of registration of the party and also at the level of the parliamentary group. But when we talk about this, this amendment is kind to me, and if, in the second paragraph, we change the "substance of opinion" we would go to the construction of the entire Rules of Procedure and the law that we have, the law on government-parliament relations under the conditions of the European Union, that we have two committees, the so-called "large-European committee" and this other Committee on Foreign Affairs, all the weight of the decisions given to the Committee. And it is not enough for this committee to give only an opinion in this case. The closed-circuit committee, which deals with data which are also of a secret nature, is important for Slovenia and cannot be the subject of controversy, although of course all things are public at the end. However, if you change this part here, when you say that the requirement of qualified candidates on a government proposal, on this committee's proposal to draw up a report, as it is in the basic text, and that this requirement goes to this working body to give their opinions on any issue before that, of course, this matter would be somewhat consistent. It seems to me that we are very close, that, on the one hand - at least as far as my view is concerned - we are absolutely examining, I am examining the requirement of Article 11, paragraph 1, which speaks of the fact that a qualified proposer may require that a question go to the National Assembly and be addressed by the National Assembly. However, it would make sense to address this requirement to the working body, to draw up a position, to prepare and to hold all the debate there. In the end, of course, this requirement will take place at the national assembly and will form the positions of the Republic of Slovenia at the national assembly. It's not enough just to add an opinion I hope that we have understood that it is, however, that the whole structure and the law and the rules of procedure are designed to deal with most of the things or the vast majority of the things that the National Assembly will receive for consideration by the so-called European Committee. And that those positions that will be drawn up in the European Committee will also be the final positions that will come out of this house. And, of course, if so, then it is clear that if it is a request, which should go to the assembly to prepare a basis there and then the assembly shall decide on the procedure otherwise envisaged. And if here the proponents would suggest that you think about changing these two words that you are saying, "gives an opinion" to "reading" as it is in the construction, this European working body, then of course we can adopt and build this rule also in this way. In my opinion, however, it would be too small to give just an opinion, because it is not irrelevant that we gave weight to this working body, as I would call it, to the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Vice President. First of all, I must express some disappointment about the fact that today it has been said that the working group that prepared this text has had quite a few coordination meetings and that the day-to-day thinking and demands have changed and increased. Of course, it's always the best compromise. However, if I return to the proposed amendment. Of course, in the first paragraph we can find out - not the amendment, but the text of the article - what the basic purpose is. The first paragraph only states that, on the basis of a request or decision, the College of the President of the EU National Assembly deals with matters of the national assembly. That's all we're talking about. "The competent committee shall prepare the material for consideration." Perhaps this verbal relationship disturbs the amendment's proponents somewhat. While we were talking in the working group, there was no doubt that we were talking about the preparation of a report by the competent EU Committee for Affairs. Therefore, the delivery is "in accordance with the reasonable consideration of the procedure referred to in Article 154.g." and if you go to read it, the first paragraph is written to draw up a report on the basis of which the National Assembly then treats the matter in a similar way, or in a meaningful manner, or in the same way as you prefer it, as in the second reading of the law. It is said that the report is prepared by the Committee, but all Members and Members of the Group, of course, have the right to table amendments and then decide on them. Now, when we look at the amendment, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the first paragraph says: "When a qualified candidate referred to in the first paragraph of Article 11..." - so I'm asking, who is the qualified proposer in this case? Since the first paragraph of Article 11 speaks of several qualified candidates - at least I understand it - and speaks of at least a quarter of the Members, the request of the committee responsible - is another qualified candidate - or on the basis of a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly - it is said that this is already a third qualified candidate. Therefore, if so, then the text should be read: "When qualified applicants referred to in Article 11, paragraph 1, require..." unless you had in mind only one of the above-mentioned applicants. Of course, this needs to be cleared up. I'll do it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Janša, the Vocabulary in Tacno has always been celebrated as a good one, especially since she was taught by a highly respected Mrs Tomovich Nevenka. It's not so much a vocabulary as a legal understanding, but it's in a military academy or somewhere a little more foreign. And now that we have cleared up this issue and, of course, the question raised by colleague Anderlich. Because if we consider, if there is still a disputed second paragraph of the existing text, it is logical that those who propose a hearing in the National Assembly, taking into account the reasonable application of the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, must do what you have written in their amendment, that its request must also include reasons for hearing at the meeting, that it must have a proposal for a new position if it does not agree. I think that we have covered this with these provisions, so I have a feeling that we agree on a lot of things, we feel the same way, but we understand differently certain legal dictions that have arisen. So, I mean, it would really make sense here to make some effort and clear these bases what we want with this. If the purpose of the proposal was to have the right to explain its request, it seems perfectly logical to me, because it has already been written down; if you think it is not written, of course a different diction is required. However, I think it is imperative that we clarify which qualified candidate is specifically thought out in your amendment or is everyone meant. Since, if everyone is thinking, whether it requires a dictionary or not, it is necessary to amend it, because then it is in accordance with the rule of law that the provisions of the rules are also very clear and determined to allow for a different interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u105	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Well, when we passed the law with a two-thirds majority, we devoted a lot of time to the debate, and how much autonomy should our national assembly, the legislative branch of power, maintain. And somehow there was a solution with which two-thirds agreed to actually run things normally by the government drawing up a proposal, which is being considered on a committee and the committee confirms it, complements it and so on. However, in Article 11, we have said, but we have defined the exceptions to which it is difficult to reach, namely, three qualified candidates: a quarter of the Members, a competent working body or a college of the National Assembly. It is difficult to reach a harmonised proposal of this kind, but the law has allowed this to go to the National Assembly in this case. This is said to be the case, obviously, in the event that the applicants have assessed that this is an important matter which cannot be resolved or that there is no point in having the full burden of responsibility taken by the committee to arrange for the State Assembly to do so. And then, in the second paragraph, it is very clear that this request by the applicant must contain a proposal of views. The proposer must therefore take care of the proposal for a hearing at the meeting of the national assembly. This means that this proposal, prepared by the proposer, must be held at a meeting of the national assembly, as it is stated in the law, and not that this proposal goes back to the committee, and then that proposal can be used by the committee in the same way as in other legislative procedures, when it can be amended, supplemented, deleted, and so on. No, the law says, "The proposal for a meeting of the National Assembly is made by the proposal." However, I think it is good that this proposal, as the proposal has been prepared by the proposer, has to go to a meeting of the national assembly, but the committee must also be involved in this proposal, and it is right to do so. However, the Committee can only propose deleting the article, propose withdrawing the proposal and cannot withdraw it, only it can deliver an opinion. And I think it's a correctional approach. Here we also say that this proposal can be ruled by its own opinion. Nothing else. In fact, we have summarized the essence of Article 11 of the Act, which was adopted by a two-thirds majority, and I do not think there can be any dispute here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u107	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I agree that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u109	Just a minute! Did Mr. Anderlich want procedural? I'm sorry, I didn't realize you had procedural issues. Yeah, but I can't read minds. Excuse me! I thought he raised his hand to apply for the debate. No, my friend Anderlich isn't. Go on, please. Please, Comrade Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I agree that the question of how to reach a national assembly from the European Affairs Committee is certainly one of the more important issues. And there was no difference between us, at least not in the conversation about the drafting of the law, that this should be settled. As soon as that idea fell down, I fully supported it. I think that in dealing with this issue, however, we need to look at the link between the law that we have already adopted and the rules of procedure that we have prepared. With regard to Article 11 of the Law, I see two essential things in it: for the first time, to say who can ask for it, and not to discuss it, and what conditions this requirement must meet. And in terms of conditions, the second paragraph says that it must state the proposals for positions, it is said, a supplement, some amendment, something other than what the government has proposed as a position, and that it must give reasons for consideration. And these two are essential to what you have the amendment's proponents wrote in the first paragraph of your amendment. I don't know what the difference is. If it is, explain it. Secondly, what I think is better written in the article's solution than in the amendment, but the fact that only the first paragraph of paragraph 154.b of Article 154. also refers to the procedure to 154.b. which implies - and I think it is useful to know if we have processed it so thoroughly - that it assumes that it must go to the mother's working body, this is to the Committee on European Affairs, to say when it can be classified, to say when amendments are being prepared and how they can be decided. And in this part, I must say, I am open, absolutely open to the debate on the role and meaning of the procedure by which individual issues would be decided by the National Assembly, but I do not see, I cannot understand where the proposed amendment is, one that solves something better than existing solutions. I will say again if we take them in connection with the law and the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u111	Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u112	Previously on "Procedural"... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u113	I'm sorry. I'm not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u114	But Mrs. Secretary suggested what I suggested. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u115	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u116	But it's okay. [[...]] I think it would be wrong if we did not understand that even when it comes to the request of qualified applicants, the working body, in this case the Committee on so-called European Affairs, should consider this request, the amended position, the proposal submitted by this qualified proposer. Because it is the working body that the interested public can participate in, all the institutions invited there. After all, it can also be done, I would say, a very broad public presentation of the changed views. Finally, it is also necessary to integrate the views of the parent labour bodies into this proposal, which these applicants are proposing. It makes sense, therefore, that we do not deviate from the procedures in force in this country by law after all, if we wish, by the constitution when it comes to the constitutional process when it comes to amending the Constitution - the Constitutional Commission, as a working body, first prepares a proposal for a position for the National Assembly. When it comes to the whole legislation, the internal, if you want, international treaties and so on, it goes back to some procedure, and this is the procedure that we've won. It would be wrong, however, in the case of such fundamental decisions as Slovenia's positions on the decisions of the European Union on - let us say dramatically - the fate of Slovenia, but it goes directly to the national assembly, where it is not possible for anyone else to participate as representatives of the government, Members and so on. I am sure that on the working bodies we can get better quality so that we can include more qualified or just those who are interested in a particular thing. And I really don't see a big problem if you change your amendment in a way that you say, "to the proposal in the second paragraph..." - I ask you to do so, despite the fact that we have also discussed a lot in those working groups, that you say - to the proposal referred to in the previous paragraph not to give an opinion, but to draw up a report by the committee responsible within the time limit in force and so on. And this committee can truly include the widest range of all those who want to draw up opinions. I suppose that if there was a qualified candidate, there had been three and so forth talks, so that I would not now repeat who they could propose. If this interest is indeed that these views which the government has drawn up, taking into account, for example, the knowledge possessed by thousands of people participating in ministries in the government's professional services and so on - there are thousands of them - that when there is dissatisfaction with these positions, we will include other experts, civil society, the public and so on and take advantage of this opportunity on the working body. We can't do that at the National Assembly. But if we think that we are the ones who can discuss everything most qualified and that we have enough ground - also; but I'm afraid it would be wrong and it would be more just different. Once again, I would like to ask you in some way if you can understand the construction of the entire current rules of procedure, the proposed amendments that are now here, as well as the other part of the National Assembly, and this would help us to adopt this amendment and also to amend the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u117	Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u118	Very briefly. What colleague Anderlich said in addition is true. And one more thing! If we adopt the proposed amendment in a form such as that, we essentially deviate from the basic principle already established in this Parliament in the adoption of laws. The proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members - no matter the number, quarter or more - adopts, prepares a report in the national assembly and provides a further basis for consideration. I don't know what the difference is now. There is clearly a misunderstanding of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 2, which states that the requirement of the preceding paragraph must include a proposal for views and reasons for consideration at the meeting of the national assembly, taking into account, I add, the procedure laid down in Article 154.b. So I really don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u119	Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I ask proposals from New Slovenia as follows. How do they imagine this? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u121	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u122	an absolute majority, but if the college counts the members as many as it counts, we have accepted that it votes by number. [[...]] The other thing is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u123	I'm just warning you, your time is up. Finish the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u124	It's not clear. Look, the other thing is, what I'm trying to say is that someone is justly absent or unjustifiable or, like, now that someone doesn't want to or doesn't want to participate in college. How do their voices count?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u125	You're in red numbers, that's clear. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I still have time. Today, colleague Kebric made a mistake when he was looking for a solution to the time complication that an experienced parliamentarian never made. Ivan gave up the whole debate and now he had a problem when he wanted to ask his fellow Members a question. So in Parliament, there is never a complete cancelling of the debate. I would have the following question or question. I would appeal to my colleagues in the SDS and colleagues in the LDS and the United List to find a solution together. Look, you know what's gonna happen. The following will happen: any proposal of positions will be proposed by a group of at least 23 Members, will come into this working body and will cut it down in its own way and come to Parliament with a different view, as proposed by the group of 23 Members. That's the fear, and that's probably what's gonna happen. That is why I propose that we find a solution here that will be better, and a way can be found. We need to find some way to ensure that the views proposed by the group of 23 Members come directly to Parliament and that it can also be the position of the working body, but it must not walk and write new ones. We will find this solution in the rules of procedure and we will be able to support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u127	Good. I've got two more applications. Comrade Sok, Tuck. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u128	I don't know if I should answer to my fellow Member, Mr. Kebrich. I think you read a letter from the Slovenian Coalition, and it was presented to the public. The reasons for not participating in college meetings are, of course, known and listed. So if the college does otherwise, we will have no reason not to attend. As for the 154th article and the amendment tabled by the SDS, we have also thought about it in Novi Slovenija. That's exactly what this is about. On the basis of the vote, of course, it will be possible at any time that the requirement of Article 11 of the Law will not come before the National Assembly. So this confirms the experience we have from our work so far. Comrade Anderlič can also explain how to find a way together, how to turn one word into another, I cannot believe it because he has worked in practice and has behaved differently from what he is saying so far. And that's it. At this national assembly, we considered the views of the Constitutional Commission, which were not. However, the Rules of Procedure Commission met and adopted an interpretation so that views could be considered, even though they were not available. So wherever the majority is sufficient, it is possible to take such or other decisions. Therefore, changes to the Rules of Procedure need to introduce solutions that will not allow for voting in the way that has happened. Now only about the proposal why in New Slovenia we have once again proposed that the College should take decisions by a majority of the votes of all members, not by weighted votes, which is what is happening today. It is precisely because of this that I would say to a smaller body, a college representing the National Assembly, there have been more democratic and qualitative solutions and decisions, not just as it has been so far, that some law is simply passed through the voting procedure, in order to introduce a reduced procedure by means of a vote, and so on, despite the fact that the business rules are perfectly clear. So it's just that what we're actually writing, even to the last letter and commas, we should respect. And then, dear colleague Kebrich, it would not be possible for any of the parliamentary groups to not attend college meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u129	My colleague Tsukati would then suggest that if there were no contradictions between the leaders or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we should have a brief discussion here for two minutes on an option that could be compromise. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to point out that a law adopted by a two-thirds majority provides that, in exceptional cases, a particular proposer shall submit or require the consideration of a particular issue in a national assembly, not on a European Affairs Committee, and that in that case, the law so provides, shall draw up a proposal for a position to be taken at a meeting of the national assembly. However, if this proposal is to be considered by the Committee, which is the right thing to do, and if it is to prepare a report, not just an opinion, it means that this proposal can be amended. The report always contains an amended, complementary proposal. And then it will no longer come to the National Assembly what the law requires, the proposal made by the proposer, the so-called convocation, but the committee's proposal. That's not right - let them both come. The law must come with a proposal from a qualified proposer, but it can also come with a proposal from a committee, it is said, but this is only an opinion, it cannot be another - this is an essential difference - but it cannot be a report. The report contains an amended proposal. And I don't know why some people fight back like that and oppose what the law actually requires. And it makes no sense for us to adopt a business provision contrary to the law, and then again, the matter is a new source of misunderstandings and conflicts. In any case, as the text has been put forward to draw up the proposal, the committee responsible is, in fact, contrary to the law. So I think it might not be bad that, Mr President, you should stop the meeting and we agree again in a narrow circle to listen to this amendment, which has been known for a long time, as it has already been proposed in coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u131	Good. I'd like to propose a five-minute recess. She'll be all right. And I would ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to come to the center of hemiside. We continue at 16 hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u132	Look, in the work of this complementary proposal to supplement the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, so much work has been put in place, and it seems to me that we are close to a solution, but it seems to me that this solution needs more than two minutes; that some notions may be clarified, because obviously we understand one thing differently. So somehow we came to a conclusion that it would be best to postpone this to the next meeting, which starts on Monday anyway. Then, in the course of this meeting, we will find enough time to bring these issues together, because otherwise we could have fallen down the rules of procedure, which is not in the interest of any parliamentary group, since this would then prevent the normal work of the national assembly under the conditions of membership in the European Union. I will therefore take advantage of the business option given to me by Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and propose to the National Assembly that this point be postponed to the next meeting of the National Assembly. This proposal to postpone this to the next meeting of the National Assembly is put to the vote. Please. 54 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] Good. Otherwise, we did not adopt the Rules of Procedure, but at least it did not fall and there is a chance that we will be able to take it to the next meeting. Let's move on. 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies, urgent procedure The time for discussion is somewhat less than an hour. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I don't know if any of the government's representatives want a word? Nobody. Comrade Blaž Kavčič is the rapporteur. He wants a word to complete the report? Please, you have that word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u133	Dear Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 47th meeting, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law both in terms of compliance with the constitutional and legal system and made a number of comments to each article from a legislative and technical point of view. The Committee also took note of proposals for amendments to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Committee subsequently received the opinion of the Economic Commission for the State Council, in which it supported the two amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to Article 2 and Article 5, so that the Committee then took up the amendments in its amendments. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the main focus of the Committee was on the following issues: the appointment of independent experts in accordance with the provision of Article 3 of the Law, the indication of the authorised entities with regard to the transmission of data relating to Article 5, then the power to appoint independent auditors, the responsibility of the branch, followed by the references to the Directives of the Council of the European Union with regard to Article 18 and the criminal provisions of the proposal. The applicant undertook to re-examine Article 18 and asked whether paragraph 4 should be supplemented by a reference to the eighth Directive of the Council of the European Union. On the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, and in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a proposal for a law was prepared. All amendments are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u134	Me, too, for your show. I will now give my word according to who is in the hall. My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. With the proposal for a company law, we will make a definitive harmonisation of company law with the European Union's secondary legislation in this area. It is to be commended that he has drawn up a professionally sound proposal for a law that will bring this large area into line with the little things that are ahead of us today, in line with the legal order of the European Union. As we can understand, it is also a matter of some nomotechnic harmonisation or of greater internal harmonisation of the company law. In fact, the proposal cannot be challenged and we will therefore support it. At the end of the day, perhaps it would be worth recalling the correctness of the decision that we actually qualified the law of societies in one place. Thus we have a modern and modern law that can be envied by a number of more developed countries. Nevertheless, we would point out that it would be very good to follow all the new developments and developments in this area. Thus, a specific regulation will enter into force in the community of October of this year, which regulates or allows the establishment of a European shareholder company as a new pan-European status form of economic society. While this is a regulation, it is likely that certain issues will have to be settled in our national legal order. We hope that the proposaler is aware of the necessity of bringing these changes into the legislative process, as the term of office of this assembly is slowly running out. It would be unserious that now that we have barely managed to reconcile our tax legislation, especially with our country's commitments to the European Union, we will again accept adjustments within the deadlines. We therefore call on the proposer to prepare as soon as possible a proposal for amendments to the legislation relating to our commitments as members of the European Union and which deadlines are due to expire this calendar year. As we have already mentioned, we support this proposal for amendments to the company law, which will enable the exercise of the right of free entrepreneurship and thus the application of all four freedoms, in particular the free movement of capital and goods, which will pose a new competitive challenge to the Slovenian economy. This is also one of the basic items of the orientation of our parliamentary group and we hope that the exercise of the right to free entrepreneurship will give new impetus to our economy and thus increase production and prosperity in our country, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u136	Thank you very much. There's no colleague of the Seal, unless you'd like a colleague of Sonja Areh? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Kavčič, do you want to be a member of the club? Please. Then it's your turn, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. Oh, Grouchy, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u137	Your Honor! The Company Act was already largely in line with the European Union's regulation with the amendment of the ZGDF Act adopted in 2001. However, the amendments under consideration were submitted by the applicant in order to further align the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Community and, in this regard, in particular, to comply with the first Council Directive, which is a public directive, with the third Council Directive governing mergers or mergers, the sixth Council Directive governing division, the eleventh Council Directive governing the public domain. In order to fully harmonise all the provisions of the first and eleventh Council Directives, it is also necessary to harmonise or supplement those provisions of the law governing the registration procedure. Well, this bill also corrected some of the vocabulary and express shortcomings of the previous version of the law. What we see in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is the importance of clearly regulating the issue of free review of the data on the annual reports published on the websites among other regulations in this proposal. The area of branches of foreign or non-Slovenian economic operators is very important, where it is quite clear that the establishment of a branch is necessary for both types of companies to carry out profitable activities in the Republic of Slovenia, and matters are more clearly defined in this proposal in relation to branches. At the LDS Parliamentary Club, we will support the proposal of the law, together with subsequent amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u138	My friend Groschel. Mr Grošelj will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies seeks to meet the requirements for harmonising European legal societies, in particular those matters arising from Directives 1, 3.6 and 11 of the Council Directive. The novelty of the law affects in part certain provisions of the company law which emerged after the adoption of the 2001 amendment and which do not substantially affect this content of the law. It also intervenes in the field of harmonisation of safeguard measures to ensure the interests of shareholders and third parties, as it imposes an obligation on an organisation which is authorised to process and publish data in order to allow such free access to the annual reports. It is also a matter of defining more precisely the requirements to be met by branches both for those operating within the European Union and for those whose founder is a company established outside the EU. In view of the fact that the branch is not a legal person and is also not bound by the general provisions of corporate law, the amendment also provides for specific treatment of branches supported by a capital company operating within and outside the European Union. The first is the so-called maximum standard. For the latter, only a minimum standard for setting up. These requirements are also specified in amendments to the law, which regulate the registration of entities. They shall also affect the arrangements by which branches are allowed to submit an annual report by the founders, both within the framework of both the balance sheet and the publicity requirements for disclosure. As already mentioned, in the case of branches established by a capital company established outside the EU Member States, it is necessary to draw up and disclose a specific annual report on the branch’s activities, but there is no need for revision. The Law also provides for a method of appointing independent experts involved in the implementation of the company’s statusal transformation. In addition to the separation of management spheres, supervision and administration, additional independence shall also be ensured through the status of an independent audit profession. The members of the Economic Committee of our parliamentary group voted in favour of amendments to the Committee, which are included in the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the economy and will also be supported. We will also support the amendments tabled by the three parliamentary groups, according to the LDS Club of Parliament, the United Nations Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In each legal system, the Law on Economic Communities is a fundamental law, one of the key laws, a code adopted by this National Assembly in its first form in 1993, which is 11 years ago. Since then, we could say that this is an old friend of ours, since this marriage has been changed seven times. And now we're changing again. Otherwise, we are changing it as well as previously on behalf of coordination with European legislation. Of course, that sounds very important to all of us. Who should be opposed to harmonising our legislation with the principles of the European Union? However, when one looks a little bit at the explanation and introduction, not as extensive as one would expect, this last proposal and compares it with the introduction of a proposal that the government sent to this National Assembly in 1999 and was reviewed by this National Assembly on 20 March in its first reading and then adopted in 2001 and finds some similarities in the explanation, and in particular some differences. Coordination with the principles and legislation of the European Union. Very nice. Of course, there are guidelines, we all understand, the directives of the European Union must be respected and we have committed ourselves, now we are members, and now we must do so at all. However, these directives have not been adopted since yesterday, nor since before yesterday. In fact, the government here in this proposal explains that it is a matter of alignment with the first Council Directive, the so-called publicity directive, of 1968, that it is also a matter of coordination with the third Council Directive, and this is the Merger Directive, of 1978, with the sixth Directive of 1983 and the eleventh Directive of 1989. The interesting thing is that we are now being interpreted here in this proposal, and I will read that the Law on Economic Companies was largely in line with European company law - I underline - to a large extent with the novelty, the previous one, in 2001. Since then, only two minor amendments have been made to the law to harmonise the decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendments to the law also do not essentially affect the content of the law. So we repeat that this needs to be aligned with certain directives from 1968 to 1989. And when I look at what the government told us in 1999, our colleagues of the previous composition of the State Dawn in 1999, they said, "As a starting point, it was taken into account that the Company Act, in its creation, has followed the EU's unification and harmonisation rules in the field of corporate law, which, to a large extent, has taken decisions - mostly - to overcome both substantively and normatively from individual laws in the field of corporate law of individual Member States." To a large extent, and mostly, and stuff like that. Your Honor! The same story repeats a few years later, always after an emergency procedure, we are always in a hurry. But what's interesting is that there's always one and the same professors who are always proposing these things. My colleague, a member of the opposition, asked yesterday because we examined this on the working body yesterday: Has this been prepared by any group of experts and who are the tigos? There was no answer to that. I hope we'll find out sometime because I think it's the hygiene, minimum hygiene of this national council. Whether or not we receive proposals from one and the same people to amend the same law now for the seventh time, if it is not the eighth time, and we do not know if it is truly regulated now. Why don't we know? Among other things, because this proposal now, which we are considering today, will certainly be voted on the basis of urgency and coordination with European Union legislation, mentions these three directives, but does not mention the other three, which were the subject of the debate in 2001. Since my time has run out, I will proceed on behalf of the Group of Members. Otherwise, I would like to announce that we will not oppose this law. However, we are opposed to this irrational, pointless operation of this national assembly, which, following an emergency procedure, has been dealing with such crucial legislation as the Company Act for a week in a very short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will be presented to us by Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u143	Thank you. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose amendments to the company law. The SDS supports, and it is with satisfaction that Slovenia has finally become part of a European association in which democracy, the law, equality before the law, also the content, including reflection in reality, is in everyday practice, not like us, where we can only dream about real democracy. The most undemocraticity of our system is shown right in Parliament, where the debates of the opposition are unreasonablely limited, even the law and the rules of procedure, such as the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, where counter-legislative decisions or business decisions are taken [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u144	Mr Kelemina, please, the position of the Group of Members on the Law on Economic Companies is not intended for this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Yeah, thanks. If I may continue. The proposed amendments to the company law are also going in this direction, namely our corrupt and clientistic authorities, thus preventing EU legislation from violating equality laws in the field of non-transparent transactions, non-transparent audit controls, for example, only if we remember the SIB and so continue to know what non-transparent controls we had in our country. EU legislation will prevent this, it will prevent, to a greater extent, at least hopefully, customerism soon, we know that, not long ago, we have discussed all of these privileged people in this system. Of course, it will also try to prevent corruption at all levels. This is a lot of work for us, and last but not least, the ruling majority decides that there is no corruption in Slovenia. However, the proposed amendments to the ZGD could have been adopted long ago. The Directives have long been known. Why we have not fully taken these areas into account, long ago or at least in the last amendment, is, of course, another question, but why should it not have been necessary? Why don't you go fishing in the mud till the last day and something else over. We have been in the European Community for some time now and there will be more fishing in the mud. It is the non-transparent operation of certain entities, as the audits themselves were also unfair and unfair. Now, hopefully, this speculation will be over. Our economy still wants to shake the eye of the existing authority, where companies, companies, must support and maintain existing authority by their means. If they don't, they're in a lot of trouble. This change from the GAG will also contribute to a transparent business, to an equal representation of companies on the market, to equal protection of companies against all negative phenomena imposed by the existing Slovenian authorities and which has no comparison in any democratic European country. Even if the existing authority still tries to maintain non-democratic phenomena in Slovenia with its established 'fints', this will not remain undetected for a long time by the EU supervisory services, and our political clients have certainly unlocked or unlocked in this area. This is our greatest pleasure in adopting the EU acquis and this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ambassador Andrej Bajuk, this is not a school, you're right. I'm not a teacher, you're right. This is Parliament, and from this place I am the Ombudsman of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not give any Members and Members the right to speak about anything other than the agenda item. That's right. The question of the examination of the Commission's report in the presentation of the Group's position on the company law is not an item on the agenda. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. I shall put to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the three members of the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 20. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We'll move on to a decision on the amendment. Members and Members of Parliament are kindly invited to the Chamber because we decide on the amendments. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. We weren't successful. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are voting on the amendment for the second time. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either, so after ten minutes we will have a third vote on the amendment. At 4:54 p.m., we will vote for the third time. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u147	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. Thirdly, we will decide on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 20. We're voting. Something wrong with the system. Please, too, Mr President, he couldn't vote because we forgot our cards. [[...]] Mr. Pucko, please, Mr. Pucko! [[...]] Mr. Pucko! You can use my card, Mr. Cyril. [[...]] Thank you very much. We repeat the third vote on the amendment to Article 20. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 39 Members and Members voted against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to the 21st Article of the same proposal. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The same applicants also tabled an amendment to Article 22. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the last amendment of the same motions to Article 24. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 37 Members and Members voted against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading was followed by amendments to Articles 20, 21, 22 and 24. I ask, do qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. Neither the legislature nor the government have informed me that the law, due to the amendments adopted, would be inconsistent. Mr. Petan, is there something wrong with the voting device? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me, excuse me. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the bill. Vote explanation, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u148	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, please. As I mentioned in my five-minute presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group, Nova Slovenija will not oppose this law. We also do not want to support him because we understand that this proposal is a continuation of the sad story that has been happening with this law. We cannot agree with the way in which it works, especially because the explanation given on behalf of the Government as part of this proposal is very similar to that given to the State Assembly in its previous composition in 1999. In order to comply with the same guidelines as is now mentioned and also to correct and achieve internal harmonisation of the law, its upgrade and editorial corrections - the same thing as now. Based on an extensive study by a group of experts on the basis of the Phare programme, we do not know whether it was the same group or not, because the government has not responded. However, I think it is very important that, at least in the magnetogram, it remains that this is a project that we are currently correcting on behalf of the same things, on behalf of the same guidelines as four, five years ago, a project that worked within the Phare programme, Deutschestiftung, coordinator of Heinz Juergen Zahorka, project manager or "co-expert" – the heart of this group were Prof. Peter Dollar, Vienna, this is Austria, Prof. Dr. Marjan Kocbek, Faculty of Law in Maribor. In the other expert group were Prof. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Prof. Dr. Borut Bratina, Prof. Dr. Hilda Marija Pivka, Prof. Dr. Šime Ivanko, Prof. Dr. Borut Zabelj, Prof. Dr. Krešo Puharič Prof. Dr. Marko Ilešič, Prof. Dr. Mirko Ilešič, mag. Sasha Pearlich and Mag. Marcus Brueckmueller. These gentlemen have sent to this National Assembly a proposal based on the same guidelines, the same thing that we are correcting today. And we don't know, just like we didn't know. [[End warning sign]] We also don't know today because we went through a very short session, in three changes, first was one at two, then at three, in three different halls, one hour and a half of an electrical atmosphere, nothing was to be asked, everything was following a quick procedure - and of course a constructive approach. And this constructive approach has led you to vote now, we will have another law, which is already announced that it needs to be aligned with other guidelines and other things that are yet to come. This is the irresponsible functioning of our government, the irresponsible functioning of the National Assembly. Such things should not at all be dealt with under an urgent procedure, but rather to allow themselves to be the subject of such a debate as such an important part of the legislation requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I will not define myself against this law, either, but for similar reasons, because I asked the committee yesterday who was preparing this law, because it also seems strange to me that several times it is ensured that, on the basis of guidelines that have been set for several years, we are always changing this law, always at the last moment. This answer, which legal group - I asked because they usually do this to you - I didn't get it; obviously the government had to shut up. However, I also do not see in this proposal that we follow these European guidelines and directives in a consistent manner, as it is still being implemented here in order to carry out a status transformation of companies, so to speak, merger or division of society, the directive provides for the appointment of an expert or auditor who is approved, appointed by the judiciary, and now our law, and has decided to approve it on a proposal from the Supervisory Board. So this independence, I don't think there's ever a law in this law. This is how I will abstain from voting. However, I hope that, once again, Slovenian policy will come to the point that if we have to correct, adhere to the directives and adhere consistently to the directives, but not that we are actually giving the same teams a new and new opportunity to change the law and never to the end. Apparently, there's some interest in the back here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I will support the bill myself, but I do not pretend that the last time this issue is on the agenda. It is clear that legislation is a living substance. It is clear that directives that regulate different areas, especially the economic sector, are very dynamically being upgraded and amended. I am therefore surprised by the surprise or dismay even of some who feel that it is necessary and possible to pass a company law once and for all. This is the Constitution in the field of economy and, of course, it must adapt to changing economic circumstances as well as to changing and evolving directives governing this area in the European Union. I would therefore like to join those who have assessed that this proposal is now a well-balanced solution that takes account of possible and desired economic solutions. There was also a real misunderstanding, regulating the area of internal relations in society, in economic society and in the external relations of society. I think the proponent of this dilemma has also made a good point. Therefore, without a bad feeling, I will support this bill and expect that a more mature version of this law will come in the future and it will also be considered critical to look at and confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina's explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u154	Thank you. I will not, of course, object to this proposal myself. But it is definitely true that the legislation of some kind is a living substance and needs to be adapted to new knowledge, new knowledge and so on. However, even when there is an opportunity for this, and this opportunity has already been established, the directives already exist, it would be necessary to completely change what could have been amended. However, the existing authorities did not want this, I said before, they wanted to continue fishing in the mud. Why should we be transparent if it wasn't necessary? And the fact that there are so many things in public administration, or most things, especially professional tasks and preparation, certain analyses, documents and so on, is unacceptable and it is questionable what kind of administration we have. We spend billions of money in the country on an annual basis for "outdorting" business. And who serves this has now been seen on this list, which was read a little earlier. And not only do they serve, but they also serve many times, including their secretaries associated with their companies and so on, because they carry their knowledge from the state administration to these companies and produce certain studies, projects and then get paid once in the state administration, and secondly in parallel companies where they carry this information. This should not be happening and it is questionable what kind of administration we have. This case is typical evidence that this should not be the case. I hope that in the future, when we are under the control of the European Community, these things will no longer happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 40 Members and Members voted in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for their cooperation. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, urgent procedure The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. I call on the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Milojka Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Vice-President! You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the law on the customs admission service. As we know, the Republic of Slovenia became a full member of the European Community on 1 May 2004 and thus an integral part of the internal European market. It has therefore committed itself to respect the European legal order and to protect the fundamental freedoms of the Union, which are four. In the customs field, this means that it will also provide an appropriate legal basis for effective mutual assistance in monitoring the correct implementation of customs and other legislation necessary to control implementation. Complements and amendments to the Customs Service Act shall be aimed at ensuring such powers to the customs service which shall ensure this effectiveness, as prescribed by Community rules, as well as other rules and international treaties which bind the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments also ensure that the most urgent alignment with the changes adopted in other areas is ensured. In this regard, let me mention in particular the changes in the legislation in the field of organisation of the state administration by implementing the new law, and then the law on offences to be applied as from 1 January, and the law on public servants and, lastly, the law on inspection supervision. At the same time, this law also means compliance with the tax procedure law. In order to carry out the tasks in the field of the Customs Union, the service must be adequately trained and must also have the appropriate powers. A high level of cooperation between customs and other Community bodies, EU Member States authorities, international trade associations in both the customs and excise matters should be ensured. Therefore, a new task is added to the basic tasks of the customs service, namely the implementation of Community and international contracts, and a more detailed set of authorities and countries with which the customs service cooperates and exchanges data, particularly where this is important for the mutual implementation of conventions and protocols binding the customs service. The new tasks of the service include, inter alia, collecting, writing, controlling and recovery of sugar duties, intrastat obligations and the implementation of the so-called Tarreg system. The proposed law also provides that customs officers or inspectors throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, where provided for by an international contract, shall exercise customs control, customs control, excise control, excise control, inspection and customs investigations. The draft law also regulates the scope of the organisation of the service, all with regard to the amended legislation in the field of the changes already mentioned in the organisation of state administration, in the field of rights and obligations of public servants and in the field of offences. The most important point is that the customs service is designated by law as a body within the Ministry of Finance, in particular because of the number and extent of the organisation of this nature, due to the diversity and sensitivity of the tasks it carries out. The Act is to enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal, with the exception of the provisions concerning the so-called criminal authority, which is in accordance with the Act on Offences and will apply these provisions as from 1 January 2005. We therefore propose to the Members that they support the amendment and amendment of the Customs Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee for presentation of the report. I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Puck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives and government representatives! That bill was considered by the Committee as a working mother at a meeting yesterday. In doing so, he took note of the broad opinion of the legislative and legal service on a number of articles of the text of the law and tried to make most of those comments by also adopting its amendments to the individual articles adopted. Therefore, special attention was also paid to the comments of the legislative and legal services. The government's representatives also discussed the conceptual question: "Is the government considering combining tax and customs administrations?" At the same time, it has been pointed out by the government that the two offices are now operating at the same location, which does not mean that they are united, that they are under one supervision, that I say so, and that, while the two administrations are still in line with other tasks that have been necessary for Slovenia's integration into the European Union, this merger has been set by the government as a medium-term objective that is achievable over the next five years. In particular, the Director-General of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out the appropriateness of the proposed solutions in Article 3, as well as in the provisions of Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the proposed law, since it is thus proposed to provide assistance to all customs officers. However, it highlighted the fact that the customs office does not already have official hours for customers in customs procedures, so the possibility of obtaining the necessary data or information is virtually unlimited and uninterrupted. Also so far, there have been no complaints in this section of the customs office, and it may be somewhat longer to wait for answers to those more difficult written questions from individual participants requiring prior consultation from the customs office with the government or the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has adopted a number of amendments, would not mention the articles, are part of the amended proposal of the law, and I propose that such an amended proposal be adopted by colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'll try to be very brief. In the parliamentary group, we feel that the law, as it was considered in the final or in the form of an amended proposal for a law, has been adopted and adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, is suitable for adoption. It settles those questions about the operation of the customs service under the new conditions of Slovenia's integration into the European Union and thus new, slightly different, tasks of the customs service. It therefore regulates this legal, human resources, organisational issue of the operation of the customs service, their tasks and competences in these new circumstances. We believe that, as is the case now, the law, with the help of all the participants, both the proposer, the legislative and legal services and the members of the committee, is suitable for admission. Anything else I could read again what his goals, tasks, and so forth would be a waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Cyril Pucka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support this proposal of the law. We will support him for several repeated reasons. We will also support it so that, as full members of the European Union, we can implement all the rules necessary for the normal functioning of the country within this community regularly and correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Nicely greeted. One of the fundamental reasons for amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act is our country's entry into the European Union. This has created both a need and an obligation to ensure the effectiveness of the implementation of the tasks and powers with a view to protecting the financial interests of the European Community. It was therefore necessary to provide the customs service with such powers as to ensure the effective performance of the tasks prescribed by Community rules and other rules and international treaties. It is therefore a matter of accepting those obligations that follow the objectives of protecting the financial interests of the community. In this way, the customs service will directly carry out activities for the Single Area of the Customs Union, perform certain tasks within the framework of the common agricultural policy, the current supervision of the implementation of a large part of the common agricultural policy. The Customs Service will also carry out new tasks in the field of prevention and detection of offences in respect of goods brought or carried from the customs territory and in the area of transit of goods, control of goods for which measures are required for safety, health protection, human life and the like. However, in order to carry out these tasks, it was necessary to ensure appropriate conditions in the preparatory process, such as: the appropriate competence of the customs administration and the appropriate or sufficient powers to carry out these tasks, which guarantee that the financial interests of the community, as mentioned, will not be compromised, and that the internal Community market with effective customs control at the external borders will also be sufficiently well designed. The Customs Service shall adopt additional, new tasks for the implementation of Community and international contracts, a specific circle of authorities and countries with which the Customs Service shall cooperate and exchange data. The proposed law also lays down a type of novelty in the field of customs rules: exchange of customs control, excise control and control, inspection, customs testing and the like, both in the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and also outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, if, as already mentioned, it is provided for in international treaties. A new monitoring measure has been added to the customs service as a form of control over means of transport and goods. The exercise of certain powers should be carried out in a procedural manner in the law, such as for example, to enable an authorised official to retain the person he is caught in breach of customs, excise and other provisions, how to define in the law, for example, the power to access existing databases of data which the customs service needs in the performance of its duties, which are managed by other authorities. In presenting the amendment, the applicants consider that the reasons for amending the law are also in the area of the organisation of state administration, as already mentioned, in the area of the rights and obligations of public servants, in the area of offence. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up comments to each article by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which has incorporated the proposed amendments into the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will therefore support the complementary proposal of the law. We will also support the subsequent amendments, which somehow regulate fundamental technical errors from the present law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! First of all, we can find that we are late with the amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act, since Slovenia has already become an integral part of the internal European market as of 1 May and is also obliged to provide an appropriate legal basis for effective mutual assistance in monitoring the proper implementation of customs and other legislation. It is necessary to protect the financial interests of the community and to ensure the effective performance of the tasks and the relevant powers. If I give only some news, it seems important that the customs administration is defined as a body within the Ministry of Finance. There is also a need for harmonisation due to changes in the organisation of state administration, the rights and obligations of public servants, inspection of offences, as well as changes in the tax procedure. The changes in the area of powers to be exercised by the customs service shall, by entering the European Union, relate to the common agricultural policy and to the control of its implementation, then to the prevention and detection of criminal behaviour in relation to goods in transit and in the area of transit of goods and their control. However, they are not only sufficient powers, and it is also necessary for a properly trained customs administration to secure the internal market of the Community at external borders with effective customs control, and there is a need for good cooperation between customs, tax and other Community bodies, but also between the authorities of the Member States, international organisations and associations. An important task to be added in the field of customs is the implementation of Community and international agreements between the authorities of the countries with which the customs office cooperates and exchanges data. Otherwise, national customs legislation replaces the substantive rules of the European Union, while Slovenia accedes in the customs field to the relevant conventions and protocols for mutual cooperation and the exchange of data, which should result in the protection of the internal market against international organised crime. The rule of law of the European Union needs to be respected. As has already been said, we are late in this area, which has also proved to be the first days at our borders with Croatia, where there were kilometres of trucks, where there was all too much ignorance of the regulations, many customs officers were not to be overlooked at all. We need to find that Slovenia has actually been less prepared to carry out one of the state functions in a consistent manner, which is in the field of customs services, and this also diminishes the reputation of our country. The adoption of such important legislation after the entry into the European Union, after the exercise of appropriate procedures and powers at the external borders of the communities, is, to say the least, the irresponsible action of our government and the ruling coalition. Although we will not oppose the proposal in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we cannot support it because of what we have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Director General, Secretary of State. It has been stated to the Government that the basic objective of this proposal is to ensure such powers to the customs service, which will ensure the effective performance of the tasks prescribed by the common rules of the European Community and so on. Here I join my predecessor's position that, unfortunately, this fundamental objective is to apply after Slovenia's acceptance of full membership and earlier. However, this is mainly because I think that it is very important to ensure that the performance of the tasks is effective, that it is formally regulated in the relevant rules, and that it is essential, however, that the relevant services are qualified, especially in the educational sense, and not least that they are qualified for this work as people and, of course, in another sense, that the system that is in place, and above all, I think about the information system, is appropriate to carry out all these tasks. Unfortunately, I must say that Slovenia is lagging behind not only a few weeks or one week, two or one day, but will be lagging behind for quite some time as far as the organisation of the customs service is concerned. Dear Director General, I must say that I receive daily information on border issues. The problems are due to the untimely introduction of the system at the external borders against third countries due to the uncoordinated operation between the customs service, the freight forwarders and, of course, all the customers using the customs service from both our country and others. This is how these problems occur daily, and I must also convey to you the outstanding protest of the Posavina economy, which believed that by moving the customs exhibition on the border in the Coast, it will not feel these changes, but unfortunately it will feel strong, and I am also involved in this way and also contribute to their protest, because the customs service and other official services in our country must serve people, not people to them. Unfortunately, I must say that in this case the reorganisation and not only the reorganisation of this first week's operation has also caused much, much trouble on the borders and quite a bit of a nuisance in the Slovenian economy, which is and will be a taxpayer. We haven't been able to pass a proper exam here. In particular, I stress this in order not to think in the future that such legal frameworks as before us today will be a novelty of the customs service law, those key documents that will monitor effective work, the efficient and proper and useful work of the customs service, but that we are the people and you are the people who are concerned with the effective implementation of these rules in practice and timely training and the provision of conditions for the effective functioning of this service. I also ask the customs office here whether the Ministry of Finance or the Slovenian budget has had sufficient financial support to implement an effective transition system in a new way with Slovenia's entry into the European Community. Personally, I do not think that this was the case and that procedures were carried out too late and that, unfortunately, we will feel these consequences. I hope that this does not mean that Slovenia, apart from this moral and, last but not least, material damage to the Slovenian economy, which must wait at the borders longer than is necessary here, I hope that there are no other major financial consequences for the failure to prepare for this new regime. It is symbolic that we are adopting a law after Slovenia's entry into the European Community regarding what I said was unfortunately our customs service, but here I will not point to the responsibility of anyone, even though we can imagine, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] has not carried out a positive test of adapting to the new situation with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u169	Thank you very much. You have no amendments on the bench and two amendments have been tabled, namely editorial nature, but the amendment of the three members of the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. If you'll allow me to go to the second reading and to deal with these amendments, as I'm going to read them, I'll ask you if you want us to wait for them to come to the bench. But you'll see it's really a borderline editorial. I am opening the debate on Article 31 and the amendment of the three groups of Members. The amendment reads: "In paragraph 2 of the third paragraph, the words of the administrative authorities shall be replaced by the words of the legal ones." The explanation suggests that it is a matter of properly determining the procedure at which this point lays down the time limit for the storage of data in the record referred to in point 8 of the first paragraph of Article 35 of the Basic Law, namely in the record of the use of firearms. Data on this record shall be kept for two years after the entry of the data or until legal proceedings concerning the use of firearms have been completed. Where, in individual cases, the use of firearms results in legal proceedings, such as indemnification, labour law or criminal proceedings, the words "administrative" shall be replaced by the words "legal" after the explanation given by the proponents. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 31. We're voting. Excuse me, excuse me. The first vote was not successful. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 31. We'll vote next time. The second vote was not successful either. At 5:44 p.m., we will vote for the third time on the amendment to Article 31. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u170	Third time. You've already received two amendments to the bench. So on the 31st and the 40th. For the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to the 31st Article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 38 votes against 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 40 and the amendment of the three groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that two amendments were adopted at second reading, namely Articles 31 and 44a. I ask, do qualified applicants wish to table amendments to these two articles? [[No, no, ……]] I also did not receive any notice from the legislative service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. So we are moving on to making a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IN DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF A DESCRIPTION SERVICE, A CERTIFICATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I call on Milojka Kolar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Hello again! You have before you the proposal for a tax service law as the last of the laws in the so-called tax package covering the laws of the tax and customs system. The basic objective of this law is to regulate the organisation and functioning of the tax service by ensuring the implementation of laws and collecting follows the principle of voluntary compliance with taxpayers' tax obligations and also ensuring compliance with all obligations. The basic task of the operation of the tax service is the Tax Procedure Act which regulates the collection of all compulsory public taxes. The Tax Service Act governs the three main areas of operation of this service. These are: the tasks of the tax service, the powers of the tax service and the tax register. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as the administrative authority of the Ministry of Finance, will carry out the duties of collecting taxes in the Republic of Slovenia as well as in the current regulation. The law also provides that the tax administration is obliged to collect taxes both for the state budget, the budgets of the self-government local communities and social security contributions, which are the income of the Institute of Disability and Pension Insurance and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. In the same way as under the current law, the tax administration will also be able to collect membership contributions for three chambers in the future. As a novelty, the law defines a tax investigation which constitutes the execution of acts and measures under this law and the law governing the tax procedure, in the event that the grounds are given for suspecting that an act violating the tax rules has been committed. The law provides for the same tax inspector and tax payer as the authorised official. In the same way as in the current law, there is a specific type and content of tax records as well as the booking of taxes. The basis for keeping and maintaining records will also be in the future tax register. In view of the existing arrangements, changes are proposed only in this direction that the register contains only facts directly linked to the status of the debtor, but not data related to the determination of his tax liability and tax base. These data will, of course, be separated and kept in tax records. The proposed law, along with the proposal for a tax procedure law, will establish a clearer relationship between the debtor and the tax authority. This will accurately define the content of the tax records, which are kept by the individual taxpayer. The data contained in the tax records are obtained by the tax administration through the implementation of the tax procedures and the proposed tax procedure law provides that during the transitional period individual monitoring of tax evasion will be carried out by the taxpayer, which will, of course, allow for an insight into the current state of taxes paid, which is also a novelty that the tax administration will be obliged to notify and align the tax debt with the taxpayer at least once a year. Both the proposed tax service law and the already adopted tax procedure law, which is the basic basis for the operation of the tax service, constitute a significant change in the monitoring of taxpayers. However, adequate information support is also needed for their implementation. The new solutions consist mainly of keeping all the records by the debtors, in a uniform manner, under the same rules and closely integrated with each other, with the systems of the debtors and with the environmental systems, both in relation to banks, other authorities and other tax services. The existing tax administration information system is conceptually designed differently for different tax functions, applies different rules and also supports tax processes differently. It will therefore be necessary to establish a new tax system in order to implement the proposed tax laws, which will require additional funding of 4.3 billion tolars or an average of 860 million per year over the next five years. I propose that this esteemed National Assembly adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u172	Thank you, Secretary of State, for further explanation of the bill. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent of the labour force, has considered the draft law and I give the floor to the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Puck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered that proposal at its 61st urgent meeting yesterday and today at the continuation of this meeting. In view of the relatively broad opinion of the legislative and legal service, it was necessary to correct or supplement a number of articles in the interests of clarity. Relevant comments were made and adopted by the Committee in the end. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! On behalf of the Committee, I assess that, in view of the amendments adopted, the articles or laws adopted are suitable as an amended bill and I propose that we do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u174	Thank you very much for the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, those present. Ciril Pucko's just gonna stay on the microphone. You have the floor. LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Liberal Democrats of Slovenia will adopt that bill because it pursues the following fundamental objectives: how to regulate the organisation and functioning of the tax service, how to ensure the implementation of the tax laws by following the principle of voluntary compliance with taxpayers' obligations while ensuring proper compliance with taxpayers' tax obligations that do not meet their obligations. On the grounds that this law follows or provides major solutions in terms of the tasks of the tax service, the powers of the tax service and the arrangements of the tax register, and thus, in full respect of the other laws adopted in the past period, aligns our legislation with that or with the principles of the functioning of the Union to which we have entered, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will fully, with the two amendments which have been submitted, support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Position of the United Nations Group of Members, Leopold Groselj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and co-workers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! In order to ensure the implementation of the Taxation Act by following the voluntary fulfilment of the taxpayers' obligations while ensuring that the taxpayers' tax obligations are properly met, which do not meet all the obligations, it is necessary to regulate the organisation and functioning of the tax service by law. And the legitimate basis for the operation of the tax service is already passed by the Tax Procedure Act. The Tax Procedure Act also regulates the procedural specificities of the arrangements for the control of tax liabilities identified by the taxpayers themselves. And on the basis of this conclusion, they also pay for themselves. The tax procedure law itself could also be said to be an organisational law. In the present law, it is also proposed to extend powers in the fact-finding process, the so-called tax investigation concerning the whole acts of the tax service carried out with a view to preventing, on the other hand, the detection of activities which constitute a breach of the substantive rules in taxation. The law also provides or provides that the tasks of the tax service will be focused solely on the collection of taxes, which are the revenue of state and municipal budgets and social security contributions, i.e. those taxes and contributions for which the tax service is responsible by law. The proposed changes also affect the co-financing of local community tax collection costs, pension and disability insurance, health insurance, in proportion to the taxes collected. This will further maintain the current regime whereby the tax authority can also collect membership contributions for the Chambers, which today has also been discussed on the Committee itself by relying on the actual costs of the tax administration. There should be no change in the field of organisation. The government's own regulation should allow for the unadaptability of the organisational scheme for the functioning of the tax administration in view of the importance, scope and development of individual tasks in the future. The law also redefines the competence of the general tax office and tax offices, with regard to the actual competence of individual organisational units, which would enable the proper organisation of working procedures in order to achieve the greatest possible rationality and organisation of administration. The powers of the tax inspector shall be extended to the performance of the duties of tax investigations and also to the exercise of internal control over the administration, inspection of taxable persons. In the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, it also seems important for tax authorities to be concerned about unnecessary harassment, as defined in the law itself, of the debtors, as well as the introduction of internal control over the work of the tax authority, which must have such mechanisms that it can be objectively assessed at any time by the work, accuracy and legality of the proceedings of the tax authority towards the debtor and at the same time does not interfere with the statutory decision-making of the tax authority in specific procedures led by the tax authority. The law also contains provisions on types and also on the content of tax records, the collection of taxes, the management and the administrative and tax register, which also remains the backbone of tax records. According to the proposal, it is stated that in order to implement the proposed legal provisions, it will also be necessary to highlight a new tax information system for which adequate financial resources will have to be provided from the State budget in the coming years, without adequate support, it is considered to be very good to work or to establish an information system that will satisfy all the indications or wishes I have mentioned. We will complement the proposal for a law within the United Nations Social Democrats Group, complementing the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Of course, we will also support the two amendments tabled by the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group and the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u178	Thank you, Leopold Grush. Dr. Bernick is not present. Master Andrej Vizjak. You haven't announced any changes. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Here you go, Mr. Aloys Sok. [[...]] However, it is normal for the change to be communicated. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] You have the floor, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Since I was in the hall, I don't know if that's the exact principle that suits us. So as soon as you called Dr. Bernick, I raised my hand. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished fellow Members and Members! Instead of Dr. Bernick, I'll try to present my position in a brief fashion. It is a very important law out of, I could say, a bouquet of tax legislation, which, like some others, we adopt following an emergency procedure at an emergency meeting. What I would like to raise on behalf of the parliamentary group in relation to this law is two matters. One of these, which our fellow Member, Dr Bernik, has already talked about on the Committee, is that this law now definitively legislates the rule that those who are members of any chamber established by law must also pay membership. Unless he pays the membership fee, of course, the tax administration can recover it from it. This, of course, is a related matter. On Sunday we had the opportunity to see how one of the chambers works, this is the agri-land chamber, when only 13% of its members participated in the elections. But in the case of the Usts, you just legalize such a assembly system that everyone has to be inside, and then you have to pay for it, if you consider it necessary or not. The second thing I would like to point out is that, of course, the state needs a well-managed tax administration so that it does not act as Dr. Andrey Bajuk's government at the time discovered that some of the taxes have been charged and others have been written off. It is therefore right that the tax administration, the tax inspection, has great and wide powers. They're described here in this marriage. I don't know, there's nothing missing from us. It's written a lot. Thus, the inspection has the possibility to examine premises, facilities, devices, business books, records, to question customers, witnesses in legal proceedings, to obtain and use personal and other data free of charge. Free to take samples of goods, to photograph, to reproduce documents, audiovisual records, various other acts in this law that the Minister will prescribe by means of a sub-law. But we wonder what in those procedures or what this law does for the benefit of, I would say, taxpayers, that these are safe from the tax authorities. For I have here two judgments of the Administrative Court. Both were issued on 11.12.2003, in both the Administrative Court finds that the proceedings prior to the issue of the decision of the first-degree authority were not in accordance with the provisions of Article 39 of the Tax Procedure Act, and therefore not because the party was not given the opportunity to state the facts and circumstances. And because of an absolute and substantial breach of the rules of procedure, the administrative court rejects the decision, i.e. repeals it. It's the same thing in this other matter, the same thing. Therefore, due to a material breach of Article 39 of the Tax Procedure Act, since the party was not given the opportunity to declare facts and circumstances, the procedure is then repealed and returned to re-decision. Well, we're asking a question. Look, both proceedings started in 2000, now we're in 2004, the case isn't over. The party complained that the administrative court had not decided on the whole case to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has not yet made its decision. The tax authority - I deliberately do not call it where it is from, but I can tell you this - has started a new income-recognition process; it is said that this is when the tax administration makes its own income assessment. And when I looked quickly, because Dr. Bernik had to leave, these articles, there was no protection in this law that would protect the taxpayer from the tax authority's will, there was no provision in this direction. It is good to give all the powers of inspection to be able to work, but on the other hand, we as a national assembly should also, not only make the system effective in the interests of the State [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] But to make a law on behalf of the state such that it also protects against abuse. This, I'm sorry, dear Prime Minister, you have not adopted this law and this is not proposed in this law. For this reason, I am deeply convinced that it is very wrong to adopt laws in such a way, by emergency procedure, because we do not solve the fundamental issues that arise in this area. As with the previous law - I will end immediately, Mr President - we will not oppose but we cannot support such a poorly prepared law. We have drawn attention to the facts and we hope that you will consider this and bring about a change in this direction in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u180	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, this law - what we want to do is to support it, given that it is part of a package of so-called EU legislation with delays, and last but not least it governs an area that is important for the effective functioning of the service, which we see mainly in the dosage, collection and recovery of taxes, which are a key budgetary resource and only from this title can we finance then all the programmes that the state budget and other dependent budgetary consumers then do. But I don't think it's very important from the law itself how these tasks are carried out. In addition to the organisation of the service, it is my assessment that the education structure and skills of the staff, the equipment of the service and, of course, the professional and political independent management of the tax service are also crucial. However, I think that in these very areas that I have mentioned, our tax service is unfortunately the lamest. I also believe that the tax service itself is not the most responsible, but, above all, the attitude of the State, the competent ministry and the government towards the functioning of this tax service. I can't imagine how the fact that, in the face of so many and so long debates about the very conduct of the tax service, there are problems here that never end. And now the government is in a hurry just before today to name the head of the tax office before the new elections, which will, of course, be pressing and, last but not least, also making the work of this service in the coming period of the complete government. In short, in addition to the management itself, I think there is also a great problem with the competence and educational level of all those who perform key tasks and equipment in the tax service, I am thinking mainly of the information system, the unification of records, the transparency of records and the transparency of all tax procedures. Here I find the key issue of taxation and effective dosage, collection and recovery of taxes. The law itself, I hope it brings something else in this area too, but if it does not change in the heads of the competent ones, of course, the law will not help us and we will be able to find out the same things again in time. According to my assessment, the government has not paid enough attention to the material conditions for the effective functioning of the tax industry in our country. In addition, I find it unacceptable that the tax service works constantly on the basis of some internal instructions, interpretations, views which, of course, are then used by the tax authorities. Customers don't know these things, they don't get published, and of course there's trouble here. I also find it crucial that the area of assistance to clients, taxpayers, is neglected by tax authorities in tax procedures. Most of all, and here it seems to me that this law does not regulate the relevant issues, but it is the responsibility of the tax authorities to act unprofessionally or recklessly or in a timely manner. I ask, unfortunately, I do not see the head of Slovenian taxation here, how many people he put on the road because of the poor, reckless or irresponsible work of the tax authorities. Just like a colleague says, probably herself and no one else. I think there will be and will be plenty more to do in our tax service to make it work better, more efficient and, above all, more just. This law is, of course, a necessary basis for something like this, but it is not essential to achieve these objectives that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-12-SDZ3-Izredna-45.ana.u182	Thank you. And the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Peter Levich has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. You have received written material, an amendment proposal for two articles, Article 34 and Article 47 of the Members' Groups: the LDS Group of Members, the United List of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. I am opening the debate on Article 34 and the amendment to Article 34. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on the amendment and the article. I'm moving on to a decision on this amendment. May I have your attention, please? I hope the voting device shows you that it's working. We will take a decision on the proposal for an amendment from the three parliamentary groups to Article 34. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 35 votes against 1. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment received support. I shall put to the debate and decision Article 47 and the amendment of the same three groups of Members to Article 47. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There must be more than 45 of us present, so I will repeat the vote. I hope you all want to finish as soon as possible. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention, please? Vote, second time. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 34 votes against 1. [[The vote was 34.]] [[One against.]] The amendment received support. I'm moving to third reading. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 34 and 47 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Nobody. Therefore, we are moving on to a full vote on the law, by not having been informed by the legislature or the government, on the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the law, that the law adopted would not have been inconsistent with the law, so we are moving on to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 48 of us present. 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. I conclude the agenda item; I conclude the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank all government representatives for their cooperation, and good night to all of you.
