ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings to all, to those who already are and to those who will be present at the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I called it on the basis of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to the agenda, I will let you know which colleagues and colleagues cannot or may not attend because of other obligations of today's part of the National Assembly. These are colleagues: Battelli, Celigoj, Drobnič, Horvat, Jakič, Jelinčič, Kebrich, Kremjar, Malovar, Peterle, Potrč, Školč, Tanko, Trofenik, Vučko, Štemberger and colleagues of Possonceva and Orazmova. I also invited representatives of the government to the assembly, and I particularly welcome them. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 41st extraordinary meeting. As it is said, I have prepared the draft agenda in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. You received it with a reference. I have not received any proposals to withdraw and extend the agenda. That's how we decide the agenda. First of all, I'm going to ask you kindly to take a look at the operation of your voting device. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Mr President, you mentioned who you invited to the meeting by the government, and I wonder whether the Prime Minister has been invited. It is financial affairs, Mr President has been a full-time, full-time financier and even before this function as a finance minister. I think it would be extremely important for you to attend the meeting. This matter, this corruption, which has so spread throughout Slovenia, and this particular matter has blossomed just as he was a finance minister. I think it's the right place for the Prime Minister to take part in this and the Slovenian public in front of the TV sets to tell them how things have gone wrong and how he intends to untangle them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u3	I understand your question. We talked about the invitees in college. The government and the Prime Minister are always invited to the meeting of the National Assembly, as was the case in this case. The Government shall decide which of its representatives shall participate, which point. And even in this case it was. The government can't cut down on this autonomy. Please see if you can take another look at the functioning of your voting devices. I will put to the vote a draft agenda for the assembly, which you have received with reference. We're voting. We're voting on the agenda. 51 present, there were just so many for this agenda and no one against it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] Before we move on to the first and only point of today's order, let me inform you that we also discussed the timing of the meeting at the college. If there were no shorter debates than predicted, then the National Assembly is expected to proceed to the decision after 23 p.m. However, I said that if there was a need to do so, I could also apply Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows us to extend the decision-making period for an hour. Comrade Kacin, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President. In the materials that have a significant impact on the progress of today's session, there was also material on 11 pages in which the SDS Group responds to the results that followed the debate on the SIB Bank almost a year ago. There is a name in there, several times stated to go to Banka Slovenije. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for the Bank of Slovenia to have the opportunity and the opportunity to respond to such allegations. This is a highly professional issue. This is an extremely professional statement, and it seems to me that it would be inappropriate for Members or political parties to define themselves to such conclusions when it comes to everything else, but above all, it is the financial and accounting profession. It is therefore appropriate for us to vote on the proposal to attend the meetings of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia or his authorised representative. And on the other hand, since this is a whole series of very specific attempts at prosecutions, it seems to me that today's session is doomed to half-delivery if we do not have a general prosecutor present who can answer these questions as an independent body. It seems strange to me that in the debate the government should define what the prosecution is doing, or that an individual political party will or willfully try to explain or reinterpret what the Attorney General has said, have said, done so far. That is why it seems to me that it is such an important body that should have the opportunity to take direct action and to face the arguments presented today, not only to these authorities, but to the entire Slovenian public. That is why, Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal that today's meeting with the right to take place also be attended by the highest representative of the Bank of Slovenia and the Attorney-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u5	In addition to the Bank of Slovenia, you know that the proposal for a reference has indicated that an even wider circle of what you are referring to today has been invited, in addition to the Bank of Slovenia, other representatives of the authorities, such and different, who have the competence to deal with the issue, which is on the agenda today. Then, colleague Kacin, we consulted a college that decided to convene this meeting. We felt it was right to give both Members and representatives the opportunity to express their views, and that this opportunity was on the committee, so that they would not be invited to the national elections. And that's how I did it. I didn't invite them to the National Assembly. I suggest we stay in this practice. If you insist on making a decision, there will likely be another suggestion for inviting someone; then we will probably have to make a decision. I propose that we briefly discuss this, perhaps three minutes in the context of the time of the groups. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u6	President, thank you so much for your word. In the context of the procedural question, I would like to ask you the following questions. For today's session, it is very important whether Members and Members will receive different materials on the bench [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Can we first identify ourselves as to the questions raised by Comrade Kacin? Do you have any views on the invited, additionally invited?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u8	I support his proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u9	You're backing up. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u10	Surely the debate would only gain quality if they were responsible here, including Mr Robb. We believe that in its current function, its contribution could clarify a number of things in this debate. And if we vote, then I would suggest that we vote in a package, with all the proposed persons, and that the Prime Minister be included among them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u11	Look, we're still going to have this debate and we're going to have to decide soon, because then we have to let the invited ones know that they have the opportunity to perform. I must point out that we can invite and the invited are not obliged to accept this invitation. This applies in the first place to the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister wants to perform, he has the opportunity to perform, but if he does not want to, if he has the authority of other government representatives, it is also in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. The vice-governor of the bank is here, he can join us immediately if we make such a decision. Does any other group of Members wish to communicate their views on this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will put to the vote my colleague Kacin's proposal to invite the vice-governor who is here, i.e. the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. We have this happy circumstance that he is already on the balcony and can quickly join the National Assembly. I put this proposal of a procedural nature to the vote. The proposal was adopted unanimously. In this sense, I politely invite you to come to the great hall. That way, the National Assembly could now begin its decision-making process. Comrade Podobnik has opened another question, and now please continue with it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u12	President, we were expecting to get on the bench all the important materials that the government was supposed to provide us with. We still have nothing on our hands - from the chronological report of the criminal service on alleged irregularities in Orion, then the report of the Anti-Money Laundering Office and so on. Are we gonna get that?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u13	After receiving this material for half an hour, the authorities are working hard to multiply it as soon as possible, and I hope that it will be a little by a third of the material on the bench, 3:30 a.m. I was told that this will be the case. Okay. Then we'll get started. I said that the total time of the debate announced is 9 hours and 25 minutes in order to make it possible for the state assembly to pass on to the vote there at about midnight. However, I must warn Members and Members that we have decided at the College to move the emphasis if it is shorter than the agreed time, immediately after the last discussion and please keep this in mind. The request to convene an extraordinary meeting with the proposals for conclusions was submitted to the meeting by a group of 23 colleagues and colleagues with first-signed Janez Janš. I will now give the floor to the representatives of the applicants. Dr. Bayuk, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All, government representatives, also now Banka Slovenije, are warmly welcomed. On behalf of the proponents, this is the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely the Coalition of Slovenia, I would like to present in this first part of our presentation and our opinions on the reports that we have received so far in response to the conclusions already adopted by this Assembly at its first extraordinary meeting when it discussed this matter. I will focus mainly on the Bank of Slovenia and the Slovenian government. Due to the time constraints, then I may have to use some other time later on about certain other supervisory institutions. With regard to the response of Banka Slovenije to the national assembly to the conclusions of the 30th extraordinary meeting, I would only point out that the first decision was that Banka Slovenije should examine possible irregularities in the sale or purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank and report on this to the National Assembly. In response to this first decision, the Bank of Slovenia informs the National Assembly that its procedures in the process of granting authorisation for the acquisition of a qualified share of the public undertaking Energetics amounted to more than 75% of the capital of the Slovenian Investment Bank were fully in accordance with Article 20 of the Banking Act. Banka Slovenije also reports to the National Assembly and also quotes: "No fact or circumstance known to Banka Slovenije at the time of deciding on the application for a qualified share did indicate that the public energy company, as an important or overweighted owner, would be unable to control the operation of the bank. However, in the case of the public undertaking Energetics, it is a large company which is not considered to be a real non-scientific company. It was not possible to conclude on the potential problems of bank management despite the then known specific solutions of the management structure of Energy as the subsidiary of Holdinga Ljubljana, which was formed by the mayors of Ljubljana and the municipal municipalities." End of quote. The explanations of Banka Slovenije's correct conduct in the issue of an agreement on the acquisition of a qualified share by the public energy company in the SIB are unfounded in our assessment. The Bank of Slovenia should know that the public company Energetics will not be able to manage the risks arising from the long-standing mismanagement of the SIB and is aware of the management of the function of bank supervisor. The Bank of Slovenia knew that, despite its annual reviews, SIB had been exposed to all types of banking risks since 1995, which it itself reported in response to the 3rd decision of the National Assembly. In response to the 3rd decision, it is clear that SIB Banka Slovenije, as its supervisor, has largely failed to take into account, and that Banka Slovenije has reported the same irregularities year after year and has increased its action year after year. Thus, it follows from publicly available reports that the Bank of Slovenia issued at least two orders in the year of purchase of the SIB by Energy, before and after purchase. The first order already with code 24-20 of 9.11.2001 was issued only a few days before 28.1. When it issued other decisions to obtain a qualified share. The second partial review of the operation of banks in 2001 was therefore carried out prior to the issue of the authorisation for the acquisition of a qualified share of Energy. The Bank of Slovenia therefore knew, on the basis of its multiannual supervision of SIB, that it was necessary to carry out, after the state of play at the end of 2001, a thorough correction of the value of its claims, or to establish for them a reservation at the burden of a negative business outcome exceeding the SIB’s capital so far. She knew that SIB's capital under the ownership of Energy would have to be written down immediately, or that the SIB would have to show a fair profit and profit situation immediately after the replacement by the then energy owners. In 2002, under the new owner of Energy, the Bank of Slovenia actually re-examined the SIB in its entirety, requested the Assembly of the Bank and the adoption of a decision on recapitalisation with new inputs, at least 10% of the minimum capital adequacy. The unaudited loss of SIB after the 2002 accounts was shown to be minus 3.5 billion tolars and the capital adequacy of the bank is from the original undeserving 11.4%; in 2001 it is expected to turn into negative capital or capital adequacy minus 22. This is according to certain data, which must also be verified in some way by the Bank of Slovenia itself and also publicly communicated to this National Assembly. Energy as a majority owner should recapitalise SIB for at least 3.5 billion tolars based on unaudited data for 2002. The Bank of Slovenia therefore considered, when granting an authorisation without sound economic grounds, that the public company Energetics would be in a position to manage management risks in the future. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia explained, in response to the first decision of the National Assembly, from the financial position of Energy at 30.9.2001, in which the long-term resources exceeded the long-term resources of 4.4 billion. This means that Banka Slovenije has assumed that a public undertaking may deteriorate its funding structure and short-term funding through short-term indebtedness. This assessment was accepted by Banka Slovenije despite the fact that in 2000 the public company Energetics showed a total of 557 million tolars of losses by its regular operation. In 2000, the public energy company was unable to achieve a positive business outcome from regular activities at sales prices. In 2001, energy was shown at nine months in 2001, just through the purchase of SIBs, a positive business outcome only due to a single business event, namely the financial revenues obtained from the sale of its investments so far, the shares of the SKB of the bank, to a foreign owner. The 2001 profit was estimated at 1.1 billion tolars from this title. The assessment by the Bank of Slovenia that due to this one-time business event that allowed for the creation of extraordinary financial revenues, the public company Energetics could manage the SIB in the future without risks, according to our expert opinion, was not well founded. Why? The public energy company does not generate the prices of its services or products on the free market. The prices of its services, as well as other prices of goods or services of economic public services, have been under the control of the State for years and will be regulated in the future, so the Bank of Slovenia had to know that their creation would not allow them to account for the additional necessary recapitalisation of SIB. The Bank of Slovenia did not assess the future returns or cash flows of this public undertaking when granting a licence to acquire a qualified share in the public undertaking Energetics and therefore did not have the basis for its assessment that the public energy company would be able to manage the risk of managing SIBs, and this is the second paragraph of Article 20 of the Banking Act to which it refers. The establishment of banks or majority ownership of banks by public undertakings, persons empowered to perform public economic services, has not, in the context of this, laid down the Law on Economic Services, as it seeks to defend in its reply to the first decision of the Bank of Slovenia. The channelling of funds obtained through the price of economic public services services into the development of banking by taking on bank risks in our assessment is indeed an unintended use of public funds. Therefore, it is unacceptable for us to take the position of Banka Slovenije in response to the first decision, when he says, quote: "The Bank of Slovenia is primarily concerned about the stability of the financial system and thus for the stability of banks, but is not the supervisor over the proper and prudent use of public funds. The latter goes beyond the jurisdiction of Banka Slovenije. In this context, Banka Slovenije is not obliged to warn the buyer of the necessary care when purchasing."the end of the quote. With such a statement of concern for the stability of one bank, the Bank of Slovenia shall justify or justify the purposeful use of public funds. Banka Slovenije also needed to know, when granting a permit for a majority share of a public company in the bank, that the SIB, with less than 1% of its share in the Slovenian banking market due to the economies of scale and other advantages that larger banks can offer to public companies in banking services, cannot operate successfully, as the so-called municipal bank. No study was submitted to the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, the benefits or advantages and costs of its own municipal bank, the achievement of financial stability under the new majority owner of the Bank of Slovenia, were not justified by economic indicators. The incorrect assessment of the Bank of Slovenia on the issue of a permit for the public company Energetics to ensure the financial stability of the SIB in the future was also directly confirmed immediately after 2002, when the public company Energetics was unable to carry out the additional capitalisation of the SIB bank. The establishment of municipal banks in public or state ownership or municipality ownership in Slovenia alone was also never envisaged in any strategic document such as the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia or the state development programme. We have already discussed this at our first extraordinary session. Public or public undertakings cannot be freely indebted as they are bound by the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which regulates and limits debt, not only by budgetary users, but also by all other public entities, including those performing public economic services. Therefore, from this point of view, the Bank of Slovenia should also examine the validity of the authorisation for a qualified share of public energy companies in the SIB, at least obtaining the opinion of the Minister of Finance in charge of the supervision of the indebtedness of municipalities and public law in their authorities. The Bank of Slovenia should also examine the circumstances arising from the decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999, in which the Constitutional Court made it clear that the municipality of Ljubljana had an irregularly regulated ownership relationship with the public company Energetics or Holding Ljubljana, since it had mistransferred its constituent rights. The Bank of Slovenia should therefore pay particular attention to the legality of the powers of those persons who co-decision on the purchase of qualified shares by the public energy company. The incorrect decision in the procedure for regulating administrative rights and duties was illustrated by the Court of Auditors in the document, the Opinion on the purchase of SIB shares, under points 4.1 to 4.4 of 31 July 2003. At the same time, the change in private ownership to public ownership of SIB was contrary to the objectives of state policy in banks which are virtually reversible: to reduce the share of government or public capital in banks. This goal was also sold in 2001 to 34% of the country's share in Nova Ljubljanska Banka as the largest bank. In the case of the exchange of owners in the SIB, the opposite was done by permission of the Bank of Slovenia. As a public-law person, in our opinion, the Bank of Slovenia did not act against public interest in granting a licence to acquire a qualified share of Energy in the SIB, nor did it perform all regular duties to prevent damage to public property. The former private owners were indirectly able to gain an unfair material benefit from the sale of shares by misrepresenting the actual position of the SIB, which she knew as the supervisor of the bank. As a result, events proved after the public company Energetics became the majority owner that the Bank of Slovenia was also unable to resolve the financial situation of SIB as a financial institution, which it set as its primary objective. Following the disclosure of the actual situation in the SIB and the conclusion that it cannot be resolved by the additional recapitalisation of the public energy company without further damaging public property, the Slovenian Investment Bank was also not prepared to purchase it for the purpose of further operations. The incorrect authorisation of the SIB’s qualifying shares by the public company Energetics is also demonstrated by actual events, which were not affected by the new circumstances that the Bank of Slovenia would not have been able to provide for when the authorisation was granted, in compliance with all the legal arrangements. Let me now focus on the third conclusion of our extraordinary session. In its third decision, the National Assembly called on the Bank of Slovenia to take note, in accordance with Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, of this National Assembly, of all decisions and orders to remedy violations and of other control measures it has issued in its supervision of the administration and supervisory board of the Slovenian Investment Bank. In response to this third decision, Banka Slovenije in its report generally summarises the content of the controls and findings and the measures it has issued as bank supervisor between 1993 and 2002. In doing so, it does not explain how they responded to its management measures by the Bank and the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the obligations they had under Articles 26, 30 and 31 of the Banking Act. The Bank of Slovenia shall also not attach copies of the orders, decisions or decisions issued. That's why our proposal is to do it now. However, the required information and documents are necessary to the national assembly or its competent bodies in order to address the responsibility of State institutions and public function holders in the supervision and sale of SIBs. It is also necessary to disclose why the SIB did not actually fully implement Banka Slovenije's actions, why the SIB's situation deteriorated year after year, resulting in damage to the public property of the public company Energetica Ljubljana and the urgent cessation of the operation of this bank, when the temporary owner and manager, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, did not find a new owner. The Governor of Banka Slovenije, in an accompanying letter to the President of the National Assembly to the response of the Bank of Slovenia to the conclusions of our extraordinary meeting, explains the refusal to submit the above documents by citing the content of Article 152 of the Constitution of Slovenia and by citing and clarifying the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act, which further regulate the relationship between the National Assembly and the Bank of Slovenia. It follows from the new communication that the Bank of Slovenia is not obliged to provide the required documentation on the control measures of the National Assembly, as this would not be in accordance with its independence as defined in the Bank of Slovenia Act. This position of the Governor of Banka Slovenije must be rejected, since the submission of documents on the control measures already implemented, in which the Bank of Slovenia has already decided, cannot either formally or effectively threaten the independence of the organs of the Bank of Slovenia. The National Assembly, by implementing the third decision, cannot in any way affect or threaten the independence of the Bank of Slovenia by the legislative branch of the Authority. Therefore, in the coalition of Slovenia, we believe that the refusal to submit documents which would subsequently allow the legislative branch of the Authority to look into the implementation of the laws and other regulations of the Bank of Slovenia would be contrary to the provisions of Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia shall also substantiate the refusal to submit documents on the measures already taken by explaining the arrangements for the independence of the central bank, in accordance with the legal order of the European Union, or by citing Article 108 of the Treaty on European Union, which provides that, when exercising the powers and tasks conferred on the European System of Central Banks, none of the national banks, nor a member of their decision-making bodies, shall require instructions or guidance from the community of the governments of the Member States or of any body. In this reference, in our opinion, the Governor of Banka Slovenije made a double mistake. Firstly, because the National Assembly of Banka Slovenije did not give any instructions or instructions concerning SIB. Secondly, the reference to the regulation of the European System of Central Banks is incorrect in conjunction with Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, also because the Bank of Slovenia Act did not transfer control over the operations of individual banks and other financial institutions, which is the task laid down in Article 23 of the ZBS, since they are not directly within the competence of the European Central Bank. It is therefore quite clear that the National Assembly, by Decision No 3, had no intention of influencing the work of Banka Slovenije, since it would not have been able to do so either objectively because it had already been done. Therefore, the rejection of the submission of documents and thus the full enforcement of the third decision by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is unfounded and therefore unacceptable in our assessment. And finally the fourth conclusion. With regard to the fourth decision in the sense that Banka Slovenije assesses whether and to what extent the existing legal order provides conditions and empowers Banka Slovenije to act which prevents and sanctions abuses in obtaining the property benefit of individuals by means of amendments to the legislation, the Bank of Slovenia has re-explained to the National Assembly the basic content of the authorisation for a qualified share. With regard to the initiative on what should be amended or supplemented in the current regulation, it has, inter alia, pointed out two important issues. Firstly, the representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and the European Union in October 2001 pointed out the shortcomings that led to the creation of an action programme to improve control. Secondly, both examinations concerning the issue of licences concluded that a prior authorisation for the acquisition of qualified shares should also be introduced into the procedure. Therefore, the Bank of Slovenia has also introduced this proposal into the amendment of the Banking Act. The amendment of the law also proposed to strengthen for the holder of qualified shares, without prior permission from the Bank of Slovenia, by which he would not have any, or material, rights from shares. Previously, he didn't just have voting rights without permission. In addition to the proposals already adopted by the Bank of Slovenia in the amendment to the Bank of Banks Act at that time, it also proposed that the law governing offences should be examined in such a way that the Bank of Slovenia could be designated as a criminal body which could itself impose fines. In this regard, we believe that the National Assembly should entrust the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia, to prepare, for the first time, a comparative review of the sanctioning of violations identified by supervisors of banks, including central banks in EU Member States, and, secondly, a proposal for possible amendments in the area of sanctioning violations of banking law. With regard to Banka Slovenije's response to the 3rd decision, however, it is necessary to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the vague position of Banka Slovenije, and here I quote: "that there is always a potential possibility that the person authorised by Banka Slovenije will abuse such permission. In the nature of the concept of abuse, it is that abuse can only always be determined when it is created, so ex post and not ex ante," the end of the quote. On the contrary, we believe that the Bank of Slovenia has sufficient legal powers to prevent abuses in various licensing procedures. However, in the case of the Slovenian Investment Bank, the authorisation to acquire a qualifying share was not misused when the public energy company did not continue to recapitalise. Abuse was previously committed by all those who sought to obtain this qualified share. Now our position and our opinion on certain replies from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the conclusions of our first extraordinary meeting, 8.4. In response to the 2nd decision of the National Assembly of the Extraordinary Meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not provide the State with information and data on the change, i.e. the reduction in the size of the country's stake in the capital of SIB, from the establishment to the final transfer to the CAD, SOD and the first pension fund in 2001. At the end of 1998, the government, as a multi-annual manager of the largest individual stake in the capital of SIB, amounted to more than 40%, did not explain the role played by its representatives in the SIB supervisory board, in particular in the unsatisfactory implementation of the measures it had imposed and stepped up in the control process since 1996 onwards by the Bank of Slovenia. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to carry out the management functions of the largest individual share of national capital in the SIB by its representatives in a responsible manner, the operation of the SIB from year to year should not have deteriorated. There can be no doubt that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not aware of the measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia in the process of controlling the SIB. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was obliged to take care of the safe and legitimate functioning of SIB in the management of state capital, especially because it assumed international responsibility and financial guarantee for the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Germany on financial assistance for the creation and professional integration of qualified workers of the Republic of Slovenia, which was realized just after the decision of the Government via the SIB bank. Under this agreement, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken over a guarantee for the repayment of 10 million marks in the event of insolvency or termination of the SIB. In response to the second decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted an incomplete reply regarding the financial consequences of the lost capital in the SIB on the budget and property situation of the KAD and the SOD and the first pension fund. In response to the second decision, it merely informed the National Assembly that until then, the SIB had regularly implemented its obligations under the agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, which means that the fulfilment of its obligations under a guarantee of 10 million marks at the time of reporting has not yet been subject to the State budget. Since the SIB is now in the liquidation process, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken the responsibility of its Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to inform the National Assembly of the state of the outstanding loan of the Federal Republic of Germany and of the state of the State's obligation under this Title. What about the fourth conclusion? In response to the fourth decision, whether the existing legal order provides conditions and gives the power to act that allows and sanction abuses in the acquisition of property benefits to individuals, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has communicated to the National Assembly the following: "that, in particular, regulations in the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on Economic and Public Services and in the Law on Local Self-Government do not need to be amended, as it gives the supervisory board or shareholders and the municipality sufficient mechanisms to effectively monitor the operations of public companies and thus prevent and sanction irregularities and abuses." This view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be agreed and confirmed by the fact that the authorities of Energetics, Holding Ljubljana and the Municipality of Ljubljana have abused or waived their powers under those regulations. In the context of the possibility of greater prevention of abuse, the government has proposed to date the regulation of the financial system and a communication that it will examine and propose the pooling of supervisory functions, supervisory institutions in the field of banking, insurance and securities markets. Yesterday, however, we received a message that this proposal would not be the same but that they would try to strengthen communication and cooperation between these supervisory institutions, based on consultations with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Union. We are just waiting for such a proposal to come. With regard to the public finances system, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in response, cites the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Public Finance Act and explains that obtaining the consent of the Municipal Council for the purchase of shares or shares is only necessary when it is necessary to provide funds in the budget. According to the Government, the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 73 do not regulate the method of obtaining the share of other persons set up by the municipality, nor do they regulate the investments of public undertakings. The Government explains that this issue is regulated by Article 67, paragraph 3, of the Public Finance Act, which provides that public institutions and agencies whose founder is a municipality must not acquire capital investments in return. Therefore, since this restriction does not apply to public undertakings, the government does in fact suggest that, although it does not explicitly state that the consent of the municipal council in the case of the investments of the public energy company in the SIB would not be necessary. Very interesting. We believe that such an interpretation of the provisions of Article 67(3) of the Public Finance Act is too narrow if we only take into account the financial accounting aspect of the treatment of capital shares. In the case of Energy directly via Holding Ljubljana, the municipality provides management funds to public companies. And there the funds of a public undertaking, reduced by write-offs or losses of funds - and this cannot be covered from the current operation of a public undertaking - must also reduce the long-term obligations of a public undertaking to the municipality. On the other hand, in the municipal accounts, investments in public enterprises must be reduced, meaning that the municipality’s assets in a public undertaking are being reduced. Therefore, a public undertaking cannot be independent in its decision-making on direct long-term investments in other companies. Thus, the understanding of the capital investment decision of a public undertaking is also based on the provisions of Article 67(1) and (2) of the Public Finance Act. Article 67, paragraph 1, provides that the municipal property is owned by such legal and real property. The second paragraph of Article 67 provides that the municipality may organise property in the form of public institutions, public economic institutions, public undertakings, public funds and agencies. Therefore, the long-term investment of Energy in SIB should, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, be decided, by our assessment, by the municipal council or by the current organisation of public enterprises in Ljubljana, by the unconstitutional, at least by the Holding Assembly, in which you would decide the powers of the municipal councils of the Mayor of Ljubljana and the mayors of all suburban municipalities. Such decision-making was also in fact established when the recapitalisation of the SIB was refused. The government also states in its reply that it does not intend to limit the capital investments of public companies as so far as is necessary to limit the debt of public undertakings by the Public Finance Act. And he's texting. [[Quote]] that "it also explores the possibility of managing free liquid assets in the regulation of the prices of services and products of public undertakings." We believe that such a view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on public enterprise investments in relation to the limitation of public corporate indebtedness is economically and legally unfounded, since public debt under the Public Finance Act is included in the overall scope of the municipality's indebtedness. We also believe that, with the aim of preventing such acts as the energy investment in the SIB, the government should limit capital investments of public enterprises by amending the Public Finance Act or allow and more precisely regulate the capital linkage of public undertakings only within the activities of economic public services, since it is a free purchase of capital investments by public undertakings contrary to the core activity for which they are established under the Economic Public Services Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also examined the criminal code relating to the issue of the sale of SIB and considered that, in the case of sanctions, the provisions of Article 236 of the Penal Code, which provides for the criminal offence of fraud in securities transactions,241 are particularly relevant. Article 243 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the offence of unlawful acquisition of commercial secrecy, and Article 243 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the offence of misuse of internal information. Regrettably, it does not mention Article 244 but refers to the abuse of the situation. In its study, however, the Government assessed the need to examine the compatibility of Article 233 with the Directives of the European Union when preparing a proposal for a law that is already in the procedure. There's a difference now. That's how she reported and interpreted the matter at the beginning, which is what the first report said, and the one we got on the table yesterday. However, we will certainly consider this when we examine the matter now in our working bodies. As far as the proposals are concerned, there are clearly certain shortcomings. We have received certain amendments to the securities market law, but after these strange ways of our Rules of Procedure we have not been able to deal with it, and we expect the government to send a new proposal, which will not only be in line with what our own service has demanded here, but also in line with what it has predicted will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. A further explanation of the proposal will now be concluded by the first to be signed under the request of a colleague, Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Thank you for your word. This scheme, which hangs here before me, we wanted to put on this very expensive technique in the National Assembly at the beginning of the 21st century, and they said it would cause a lot of problems. That's why I'm sorry it's worse to see. But I also expect that by the next session progress will be made in these areas as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u17	This proposal didn't come to me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u18	He came to technical services that had so many excuses that we gave up. On behalf of the proposers of this extraordinary meeting, I would like to reiterate from the outset that this meeting would not have taken place and that there would probably not have been a public affair with SIB if the state institutions had done their work after the first extraordinary meeting on the subject of SIB. As already stated in April, the roots and causes of this situation are political. We listened before the first and even before this meeting of obviouss to politicize the matter. This is what we answer that the developments concerning the SIB are political from the very beginning. If there were politics here, then there would be no such affair, in fact, the bank would not be, because we know how it was established. If matters were to take place at an economic level, if all were to be market-dependent, if those regulators in charge of having all operators in an equal position on the market had done their job, then this problem, as I have already said, should not be invoked today. The purchase and price of shares was not decided by the market, but by policies, specifically members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. In the case of SIB, as we can see from the scheme and from the reports of the state authorities, the Siamese twin, who was inseparably linked in the planning, execution, concealment and then even in the investigation of the SIB case. That's why it's no wonder we didn't come anywhere. The evidence for this has already been great in the public eye, and there is no point in repeating it, many of them have already been presented in April at the 1st extraordinary meeting. No one rejected them, but after one year the investigation stopped only on the operators. The investigation didn't go anywhere else, and that's because it would go too high. More about that at the end. When I spoke last year at the beginning of that first extraordinary meeting about the SIB Bank, I also said: "Those we have proposed this meeting have almost no hope that this affair will disentangle, as it has been so far, in cases where the people involved in the business were in or near the authorities involved. As long as the situation in force, such as the last decade, is likely to be the same." This was said in April of last year. Today we can only find out how right we were. Therefore, another extraordinary meeting was needed to move the matter at least slightly. If not otherwise, it will broaden the behavior of what is done in the backstages, and this behavior may affect that no such thing will happen in the future, at least not in the same way. That's what we can do to say something at this point. The rest must be made by the electorate or continue to pay high bills that are higher than the Bible’s fair share. I think it is time for those who have a fair hold in financial or other institutions to do something, but these affairs, such as the SIB Bank, Orion and others, which are innumerable, cast a bad light on their work, even though they are not at fault. How the SIB was established, how it originated, which institutions decided who invested the money, we said last year. I wouldn't say that again. I would like to repeat just a few details of how the SIB was operating. As early as 1997, this year will continue to return, it was obviously extremely important in these matters, already in 1997, the Slovenian Investment Bank has formally shown a loss of 548 million tolars, which is a huge loss for the bank with a relatively low share of about one percent of the bank's share in the Slovenian financial market. Half a billion tolars of net loss in 1997 for this bank is, of course, a first-degree alarm for everyone, especially for all regulators that should be contacted. On this balance sheet, the Bank of Slovenia should start with alert measures and also be treated, but nothing happened. Nothing has happened, there has remained the same leadership, no action has been taken, no warnings, no public warnings, no potential and existing commissioners of this bank, if you are operating with a bank that has had so much and so much loss, your savings may be compromised. None of this happened in 1997. Institutions that should protect citizens, potential commissioners, remain silent. At this point, Banka Slovenije has for the first time demonstrated that she has disregarded her duties under the Bank of Slovenia Act. So to this day, not only did no one answer, no one has been able to say that anything was wrong. Since 1997, both in Banka Slovenije and in all other financial entities, competent and not competent, have known the situation in this bank, everyone except the committees and the public, until the sale of the majority share of Ljubljana's Energetics, but have tolerated it. Even though we shouldn't have married him. It was evident, permitted, and abandoned many acts that should have been done, but were not. The excuses we received in Banka Slovenije's response after the first extraordinary session are completely unconvincing. As part of these excuses were also made publicly available in the Finance Journal, the editor commented on these excuses - and Mr Mitja Gaspari publicly presented this presentation, the editor of the Finance Officer wrote an article with one word in the title, and this word was "stupid". In 2001, in the year that Ljubljana's Energy, which has 100% public ownership, bought the majority stake of the SIB bank, this is the same company, according to the same Ljubljana Energy, adjusted the balance sheet of this company so that it enabled this bank to make a very transparent and even controversial transaction, 400 million profits or profits. And the SIB Bank again, unjustifiablely, because of these 400 million, at the end of the year showed 70 million profits. This was a perfectly artificial profit, which then helped to mislead those who made decisions and were not familiar with the background, except those who had been at it from the very beginning. This transaction was so transparent, and they didn't try so hard to complicate it a little bit, that it is also clear from this fact, as some others have, that those who did it didn't even think that anyone could ever investigate it. And immediately, in the autumn of 2001, there were known agreements, which were widely mentioned, so I would not repeat everything where certain people have decided what the price of the shares of the SIB bank would be. The City Council, which should decide on this, has not been formally informed of such purchases being made by their means. Shares that may have been worth a thousand tolars were then purchased from the SIB Bank from between 3,000 and 3 000 to 800 tolls per share, but of course not everyone could do it, but only dedicated. At the same time, the public company Energetics paid this share of SIB to the Bank before the bank’s management bought it off its shareholders. So, first the money went from a public company to purchase these shares at the bank's administration, then the bank's administration or individuals in the bank's administration at a lower price, those who knew about this information were buying shares from small shareholders, and they were scolding them, violating at least five laws, which the law enforcement authorities obviously don't know about. Then these shares were more expensive to a public company, the same company that had previously given them money to buy from small shareholders. If you allow someone else, then of course it is not difficult to earn, it is not difficult to have success, as some are boasting now about how successful I have been. The prudential review of the SIB Bank was carried out by the municipal authorities, as the Court of Auditors has determined, but only in the second report, only after all the shares were purchased and the transaction was completed, not sooner than normal. First they bought, then they made a careful legal review, which, of course, showed enormous irregularities. And to make it even more interesting, even a careful financial review, which is probably the basis for a decision whether to buy something or not, was made only after purchase of the bank. First they bought the shares for twice, three times the price, of course not with their own money, but with public money, and then they did a careful financial and legal review. The Energy Supervisory Board - this is a company that has given 3 billion and a half money to buy shares that were worth three times less or, as it turns out later, many times less - discussed this purchase on 15 October 2001. In this supervisory council, with the exception of the two members who were from the municipal municipalities that were not politically defined, all others were members of the government coalition in Ljubljana, called the United List, the majority, and the Liberal Democracy. And the decision adopted by the Tanadist Council should be reproduced in 2 million copies and sent to all Slovenian citizens in order to believe that this is possible. The decision read: "The Supervisory Board is aware of the intention to purchase the bank and supports this and agrees that the energy company will make this purchase within its own free resources. The purchase details at this time are not presented to the Supervisory Board due to a value sensitive transaction and any unauthorized handling of these data could lead to a change in the value of the shares that are the subject of the purchase." The irony of this conclusion is that it holds. Anyway, he's stupid, but this joint holds. If this thing came out to the public at the time, it would actually affect the price of the shares. But not by the company represented by this supervisory board being damaged, but by preventing it. The supervisors voted not to familiarise themselves with the transactions, because in this case the whole deal would have been compromised because it would have been clear if it had come to the public or to these two members of the Supervisory Board - in particular, they were afraid - who were not from this political option, which was in power to make the deal go away. That is why such a decision has been adopted. This decision is on record, it has the police, it has the criminal service, it has the prosecution at all levels, and it has all the other institutions. However, no criminal charge has been brought against anyone in this supervisory board who is responsible not only for the criminal code but also for the company law. Not even one. It's more than chatty. The fact is, too, that members of the Energy Supervisory Board had previously read in the newspaper that this purchase was being prepared before the meeting was even convened. When the meeting was convened, however, they voted that they did not want to get to know even what the newspaper said. The opposition in the city world, in particular the SDS World Group, then demanded a discussion in the city council, desiring that the city council, as well as the public, as well as the competent institutions, should be informed of the circumstances of the purchase, where the transaction was still too large, so that the matter would not lurk at least to the city councilors. The Ljubljana City Council was held on 21 January 2002, which is said to have been more than two years ago. Despite all the blockades, the opposition then tried to clear up the terms of the purchase, prevent further damage or at least repair it. But also in this session something happened that should come into all the scripts in law school as something that's possible, but it's unlikely. At the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party Council of Councillors, the City Council voted on the decision to inform the City Council of the circumstances of the purchase of SIBs with the money they are responsible for, because it is a company owned by Ljubljana, it is the City Council that decides on public funds, as well as any municipal council in each municipality. And something that the mayor should have put on the agenda, which should be normal, had to be demanded by the opposition. But look at the vote. When Mrs Potočnikova put this decision to the vote, she voted against it first, and then 21 city councillors voted against it, so the decision was rejected. Those who knew what those circumstances were and did not want the opposition and the public to know that were the case - because otherwise I do not know how to explain this vote. To avoid anyone saying that we are talking about, I will read again who voted against this: Anton Kolarič, Borut Veselko, Meta Valentinčič, Slavko Slak, StankoBrezovar, Angela Murko Pleš, Dr. Metka Tekavčič - President of the United List in Ljubljana, Peter Bozič, Stana Pejovnik, Dunja Piškur Kosmac, Miloš Pavlica, Danica Simšič - sitting county, Danilo Tomšič, Silva Črnugelj, Mother Vasilj Cerar, Miha Koprivšek, Evita Leskovšek, strong liberal Dr. Darko Štrin, did not want to know, Branka Lavrenčič, Janko Moderndorfer, as well as Roman Veras from the National Party, the rest of the LDS or the United List. And this decision was not intended for the City Council to take any decision as to who is to blame, who is responsible, because it was not even proposed. It was for city councillors to have a report on how the purchase took place, who made decisions, and what the economic and legal circumstances of the purchase were. But the ruling coalition of the United List and the Liberal Democracy in the City Council voted not to be familiar with it. Today all these saints, who have voted so, except for some exceptions, are sitting again in the city council, and Mrs Danica Simšič is even the mayor, who now assumes responsibility for this purchase. After this decision was voted out and there was no debate, documents which were very obvious and which were confirmed or rejected in this debate were also not received, since the item was not included on the agenda, were discussed only on whether or not to be classified, our council in the city council on 31 January 2002 submitted a criminal application more than two years ago, wrote a criminal application which was sent to the four addresses recommended. There is a postal document on this, which was unequivocal, which we had to look for when the prosecution claimed it had not received at all. It was sent to the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana and to the Attorney-General's Office, the Ljubljana Crime Police, the Court of Auditors, as well as to certain competent government agencies, not on four, but on six titles. In addition to this application, documentation or debate was sent from the City Council meeting, in which there were very clear suspicions that everything was not right about this purchase and that things were not going legally, as had already been heard by sparrows in Ljubljana. Most of these institutions, especially government institutions, responded within about one month. But the answers were unusually similar. Almost everyone replied that they were not competent to say anything about it. Of course, the Court of Auditors’ response at that time was the most reflected where it was written down that the Court of Antončice stated that neither the SIB nor the Energys were owned by the City and that they were therefore not competent to audit the operations of these public companies in any way. This claim was so absurd that even the then mayor had to say that these were still companies owned by them. In the second report, the Court of Auditors, of course, corrected this position and also revised it, but the responsibility of the one who first wrote that they were not even responsible for it was not said a word. Not in court, not in government, not in government. What they wrote in the second report will be more presented by my colleagues. The most interesting thing was the fact that this application was made by the State Prosecutor's Office, which I will now renew because we listened to a lie on POP TV a few days ago when the Attorney General presented things completely in violation of the facts she had already admitted. But after one year, he probably thinks we've forgotten everything and that it's possible to turn things around. About one year after the State Prosecutor's Office was asked what had happened to this application received on 31 January 2002, High Prosecutor Cerarjev stated that the application had been lodged somewhere. And she even called the Slovenian Democratic Party City Council Office on the phone if they can send her that application again. After one year, after the public discussion. When another year went by, and the Attorney General publicly on TV on TV on the TV Club on POP TV, I think it was Sunday that she said that they had not received any reports that the prescribing officer was a town hall meeting where the saints had a fight with each other and that some prosecutor then examined and assessed that there were no elements to the initiation of the investigation or the prescribing procedure. So we have a state's attorney-general who first admitted that the application was filed a year ago. After one year, he claims that they had received it, not because it was founded, but because it was not a report, but just a record from which nothing could be understood and that they decided not to go into the premonition. Only because of this contradiction in a normal country should a public official in such a place resign. To make matters worse, this application was not only sent to the Attorney General's Office, but also to the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office. And that's where she got lost, which, of course, can't be an accident. It was a big deal. The transaction was too big. Even so, the pursuit and the loss came to the public. It came to the public because there were also these 3.5 billion with which the Ljubljana public company overpaid the SIB bank, too little or because much of that money was not going to the bank at all, but individuals who knew the transaction further took advantage of it and those who brokered it are said to be a stock exchange house. So the damage would still be smaller if this money went to the bank, but most of the money didn't go to the bank, but it went into private pockets because those who bought the shares cheaply sold the shares three times more expensive. And of course, interesting are those lists of who was selling, who was buying, who was injured. You can see which shareholders were dedicated and which ones weren't. And if not otherwise, those who have been injured here should immediately be compensated by the fact that this money that has gone unjustifiably into this pocket, which allows our legislation to freeze in the accounts at the very beginning of the forecasting process. As was the case with Boris Šuštar, we should also do so with Mr Klemenčič, but Mr Klemenčič and Mrs Klemenčič are clearly higher than the former Secretary of State Šuštar. The Bank of Slovenia had to request another recapitalisation and the affair could no longer be hidden from the public. They endured so much that they passed the local elections that those who had been planned and who had mainly decided on these transactions were re-elected. When local elections followed, the media were also allowed to write about the SIB bank. Now there are five things related to the political background. As we said in April, the bank was established politically. High officials of the previous regime have just taken over and led the bank to an infamous end. Another time. The political ties were supportive of decisions that led to the fact that such purchases were even possible. If I had kept economic logic about it, it would never have been. The decision, first adopted by the Energy Supervisory Board and then by the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana, that the haystacks wanted to know how the bank they were buying was probably not economic, was political. If he was an expert, then I don't know what an expert is. All other political connections are also political. There are also many things that happened in the SIB bank before the time of the public affair. We mentioned at our first extraordinary meeting in April last year that three years ago, and by chance it was only 31 in the month when the balance sheet or year was concluded, that a billion Slovenian tolars were suddenly placed on the bank's SIB account, which was billed from the largest state bank at the time, the New Ljubljana Bank. That SIB could show a positive balance, otherwise it was profoundly negative, someone, as they then said, "by mistake" pointed a billion tolars right at the expense of the SIB, which at that very time needed a billion. I made this public and presented the documentation in April last year. To this day, neither the government nor the bank has responded to the question of who the person or the person or the name of the person who ordered that billion was wrong. Everyone would like to know a man who misdiagnosed a billion tolars; perhaps this would come in handy at some point. Of course, that money was returned later, but the balance sheet was positive. And this money didn't come from the Cayman Islands or from the Cypriot banks, but it came from the largest state bank that they're sitting in, or were sitting in, recognized people, and there are people from government structures in the control world. If I am not mistaken, the President of the Supervisory Board of this Bank is still the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. However, despite the fact that this was said, it was not, at least in public, reported that the Supervisory Board would have asked anyone, however, how this billion had left the account of the New Ljubljana Bank. I would also like to know whether the balance sheet of the New Ljubljana Bank was missing this billion at the end of the year, because it was shown elsewhere and therefore the profit of the bank was lower and they also concealed some tax in this regard, for sure. Because if there were billions out there and it was shown somewhere else, it was probably taxed there or whatever; I don't know what they did, nothing was explained. As an accident, he is a member of the Supervisory Board of Holding in Ljubljana, which is the parent company of Ljubljana Energy, Metka Tekavčič, also the President of the United List in Ljubljana, who is also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Ljubljana Bank. At the same time, she is the president of the finance committee in the city council, it is said, of some kind, the Ombudsman of public funds, and at the same time in two supervisory councils, which are linked to these companies on the scheme. Mrs Tekavčičeva, although she was dismissed from the Holding Supervisory Board, I think that from nowhere else, from any other body, she was likely able to influence that billion at that time was in the SIB account. It's just that she had functions like this, and interest, as we've seen. As far as this was not enough, we also have here a member of the same party, Mr Dimovski, who is the Minister for Labour and under whose jurisdiction the capital company, which was co-owner of SIB, and here too there is an interest in that billion. But with this connection, I think they could already arrange the mistake that this billion has gone by. It is also very interesting what happened to the sale of the SIB bank. For sale of the bank after this first extraordinary session, they found Mrs. Alenko Žnidaršič Kranjc, where through the connected person in this story, you also have her on this scheme, not someone independent, but someone who was present. The audit house, the owner of which is Mrs Kranjcheva, was attached to the audit house which carried out the audit in these cases. Well, Mrs Kranjcheva, in addition to probably working here for her own benefit because she was a connected person, received a greasy fee, almost three million tolars, that she chose one among one of the bidders to buy the bank. Very hard work for three million. So it's an eccentric political matter from the beginning to the end. Even after Nova Ljubljanska Banka bought a stake or bought a SIB entirely for 400 million dollars, it sold it very quickly, I think not to Factor Bank but to Factor Leasing Bank, Factor Leasing, which is a company from Factor Bank, for a much higher price or sold these claims. There's a big difference, in billions. Here too, someone earned money or closed himself in a circle that we didn't know about at the time or today. The taxpayers in Ljubljana were again injured. First, when Energy bought it and then when Energy sold it. And to those three and a half billion, it is necessary to add another two billion to the difference between the price for which they sold the bank and the price of the claim for which the new owner is, according to Nova Ljubljanska Banka, sold these claims to Factor. Five billion damages in total. However, here we could mention, I think that my colleagues will do this, I will not go into it, many other irregularities in the operation of this bank, which are ecclatanically political, some also harm the international reputation of this country because they relate to the powers or tasks that this bank has taken over with regard to the funds that the Federal Republic of Germany has given to return our workers and because they have been seriously machining. This happened by accident when she was the Minister of Labour of the United States. The profession had nothing to do with this. But despite all that I've been saying, despite how the bank was created, despite this billion that came up by mistake and other things, there would be no SIB bank affair if this bank had had some positive result. The problem is that one thing that was eccentrically political, because a lot of people took advantage of it, now that it's gone down, it's gone down financially. And there are many savers, bank commentators, many small shareholders who have virtually lost everything. I doubt that those who have been injured here are satisfied with what the state authorities have done with regard to the investigation to this day. I highly doubt it. We certainly didn't. I must say that it is quite clear from this information, which you can also read in these reports that we received after the first meeting, that even this, a complaint against the operators, would not have happened if it had not been for that first extraordinary meeting in April last year. This first extraordinary meeting moved the determination of responsibility to the level of operators in this thievery. As soon as the meeting was convened, meetings were held at the Anti-Corruption Office, the District Attorney's Office, on 7 April 2003, even the Attorney General's Office, and they began to meet at the police station. On 28 March 2004, Prime Minister Anton Rop even stated on the question of the post, Mr Andre Bajuk, that I quote in an article in the Finances: "If it turns out to be a crime, the government will continue to support the cancellation of the SIB's purchase contract." That's what the Prime Minister said on March 28th. Today it is clear that it was a crime, despite the fact that only criminal charges against operators were brought, are brought for criminal reasons. The Prime Minister has promised that the government will continue to support the cancellation of the SIB purchase contract. Not one single concrete measure has the government taken in this direction, not one single step has the government taken in following this public promise for this speaker or where the Prime Minister spoke, has it done so to cancel the contested purchase. On the contrary, I think the government was very involved in the decisions because it was the decisions of the State Bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, to get things under the rug as soon as possible. When the attention of the public gave out a little bit, and when the SIB covered up the new affairs, these old networks quickly patched up. After these meetings of the Committee on Finance, we received extensive reports after this first April meeting last year on the SIB. It took me a while to read it. I doubt there were many of us like that. When you read all this, you see that it's big news, that there's a lot of ballast here, a list of some laws, sometimes even a mistake. However, no one took any responsibility. Nobody. No one was detained either, not by any chance. Yesterday we were watching on both TVs a spectacular police action in the New Town Communal Company. Cars like some kind of action in the wild west, investigations, house searches, detentions, arrests, big deal. However, I doubt that even the Novo Mesto Communal Company is worth as much as the damage to the SIB bank was here. I believe it was also there for crimes, thievery and so on, but measures have been taken that have not been applied in these cases. We have never heard of anyone thinking of any detention or house search for Klemenčičeva, Klemenčič, Potočnikov, Senica, Lozeja. No, but here are the other criteria! Following this extraordinary meeting of April 29 May 2004, the Finance Committee of the National Assembly adopted the following decision. Even some members of the government's parties voted in favour of this decision. And this decision states as follows: "The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Council notes that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office did not act properly because, after receipt of the application in early 2002, it did not require an investigation into the reasonable suspicion of irregularities in the purchase of the bank's SIB." The Committee adopted this decision at the end of last May. But nothing happened. The decision was very cheaply reported in the media, the Minister of Justice said nothing, the government said nothing, they were all quiet, there was no one on the government's side demanding subjective, let alone the objective responsibility of Mrs Cerarov. Nothing happened. And it is clear that then things went on as they went, and Attorney General Zdenka Cerar said at a meeting of the Finance Committee on 26 February 2004, and I quote from the magnetogram: "The pre-trial procedure ended on 28 December last year when another criminal indictment was filed in this case. And I must say that there are currently no additional predictive activities in progress. Both members of the board of directors of the procurator." On 28 December last year, the investigation was concluded. Three complaints against the procurator and two members of the bank's administration have been filed. There's no further investigation. I think it's a first-class scandal. First of all, because of what you could all read in the Court of Auditors report, which was listed in a number of indents, who is responsible, and probably an official institution. Secondly, because the report on the transfer of transactions, which is the official document with which both the criminalist service and the prosecutor's office have been quoted as having already been on 18.2. last year, publicly on some television, states in this minutes: On the question of how the price of the shares of the SIB bank and who bought them for the company, Mr Pogačar explained that the price of the package of shares of the insurance company Triglav was dictated by Mrs Nada Klemenčič and agreed at the meeting in the presence of Mrs Vika Potočnik, Mr Sam Loze and Mr Mira Senica's lawyer. The agreed price was SIT 3,800 per share, the stock exchange house of the Public was determined by Mrs Nada Klemenčič. But even though there are official documents that show who made the key decisions on this theft, the investigation is closed. Nothing further is being investigated and no complaints against those who have actually decided have been filed. Even Mrs Potočnikova is still a saint of the Liberal Democracy in the City Council, Mr Senica is still a lawyer, a barrister, led by his client colleague and Minister of LDS in the government once Miha Kozinc, has done nothing. Everything is connected here, too, so of course there is nothing to clear up. When it was clear at the beginning of this year that things were falling under the carpet again, and when the links between SIB, Orion and the other Lužar companies discovered by the media came to a full scale, the newspaper revealed this and television, and the competent institutions only collapsed under great pressure from the fraud and the public, we collected signatures for today's extraordinary session. Only after that. When we tabled these signatures for an extraordinary session because the state institutions did not fail, the Executive Director of Liberal Democracy Bogdan Biščak assessed our proposal at the press conference of Liberal Democracy as follows: "I think it is only their intention to create an atmosphere of chaos in this country." Now I ask you, "Who creates chaos?" We who have come here to defend the defrauded and to defend those who are fair masters of these affairs are throwing a bad light at them, or one that allows such behaviour, which does not prevent this injury, despite having all the instruments in his hands to prevent it and despite being warned in a timely manner. Because this is now crucial, we also received a formal confirmation yesterday that criminal charges have already been filed against persons from Orion and related companies for tax evasion, extortion and other crimes, which in a normal country usually fall within that set of criminal offences that define mafia activity. Apparently, several complaints were filed against these people. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Finance Committee devoted to this subject, we asked the Attorney General what was going on with these allegations after seven years. And she said she didn't know. That, I don't know, how many thousands of charges have been filed in the D.A. and that she doesn't have information on everyone. But we had a meeting on this particular case, and we would probably be able to look if, of course, they were not irreparably lost. If they are, then we advise the Attorney Generals to look for them there as a report from the 2002 council. They're probably in the same round folder. And the Anti-Corruption Office, the Government Anti-Corruption Office, has already pointed out, according to its own written statements on 20 May 2003, practically one year ago, the suspected crimes in Orion and Pay Consulting and some other related companies, to incorrect tax bases, etc. But nothing happened. The official institution the government has in place to prevent corruption has drawn attention to the matter. Nothing happened. Thieves continued. Hundreds of people have since May, when, according to my behavior, it has been written for the first time, that this behavior has been disputed by a government institution, hundreds of people have been injured at this time, by hundreds of people who have trusted companies that have cheated. But after one year, it is February 23rd, for a short time, the Prime Minister woke up and said to Radio Slovenia about the Orion affair: "But when the deal is of course drawn up, it is determined that it was a plan behind how to play individual laws, how to play individual institutions, how to play the rule of law and, of course, we will act decisively against it." Hello and good morning! Where was the Prime Minister for a year? Where was he a year ago when people cheated on each other? He was the first to receive this report because his own office had warned of this. Where was the D.A. all this time where the law enforcement authorities were? At the same time, on the same day, on 23 February 2004, the National Radio Prime Minister, Mr Rob, also announced that feathers would flutter. He said: "In cases where we find that individual acts of the competent authorities have been abandoned, that they have not been carried out to the end, this will also be sanctioned by the staff." But so far, this feather-sniffing thing has been nothing. It's a very simple matter. We can help the Prime Minister. Only to find out who got these warnings from the government's corruption office last May, will he know whose feathers must be running. The problem is, he probably got the report first, so the feathers don't flutter. And even today, after what we heard yesterday, we have only a few complaints after these years of discovered frauds that have been pointed out for a long time. There were no detentions here either, no house investigations, no asset seizures in the accounts just in case, nothing. It was not like Popovic, for example, in many others. It is some strong understanding of Mr Lujar's problems, but they are justified. Beyond that point, it follows from what has been published that Mr Lujar is both the owner and the director of most of these companies involved in this fraudulent circle. After his education, he is a guest technician, a respected profession. To do hospitality, you need this school's certificate to be a chef at a restaurant, you need a lot of paperwork, which is fine. But to borrow billions, to have a billion-dollar government license, you can be a guest technician. I'm not talking about him owning it. He owns it. He owns it. I'm talking about him being a responsible person in a company that's been lending billions for decades. How is that possible? We have all the vocational training there, here people have to meet all the living conditions to lend billions, and give them this power license, even if they are guest technicians. And there's no question about it. Let us see what the President of the United List of Social Democrats, Mrs Tekavčičeva, said, is very socially sensitive, of course, because she is from the Social Democratic Party when asked how she would comment on the behaviour of those responsible in the Orion affair. In Finance, on February 19, 2004, the following reply was published: "When I am aware of the problem, I would think that it would be very aberrant for one of the above-mentioned to stick to the cross. The fact is that the institutions that should inform people have been cancelled. People think too little about borrowing money being a cruel thing when it has to be returned." Excuse me, Mrs. Tekavčičeva, and everyone else in power. It's not that it's a cruel thing to pay back money. The cruel thing is, if the authority that gives people licenses to deal with financial transactions, people cheat that this is happening for years and years, that no one reacts, even though they are warned about it. That's the problem. And to this, I must say, it also points out the report of the Anti-Corruption Office of 9.2.2004, which also has one chapter, I do not know whether it is in this material or not. The chapter in the report of this Office shall bear the title ‘Subsequent effects of inappropriate action by the State authorities’, in this case, and shall include three consequences. The first is: increasing citizens' mistrust in the efficient work of law enforcement authorities. Another consequence is the non-controversy of the suspicions of crimes committed on the basis of the conclusion that the authorities are ineffective in any way. And the third consequence is a deviation from the party that would otherwise have been elected if there were no such cases. This is what the report of the Government Anti-Corruption Office says. In this answer, colleagues from the Liberal Democracy can find the answer to the question why support for this party is falling. I do not know if the government's anti-corruption office is responsible for such answers, but this analysis is undoubtedly correct. The recovery of responsibility in the cases we have discussed is very important. Not only because of these specific cases and people who have been injured, but also because this would no longer happen. And it's a lot more than just whether someone's gonna be here or not. It is a matter of restoring confidence in the rule of law, which is precisely by doing so, that the different conduct of the public authorities in similar cases is undermined. In particular, it is about restoring confidence in financial institutions. Restoring trust in the rule of law, equality before the law, as well as restoring trust in financial institutions, is one of the fundamental conditions for faster economic and general social development. If you're not there, then we can't expect that. Last year, the government adopted a programme for effective entry into the European Union. We propose to add two key points: restoring people's trust in the rule of law and restoring people's trust in financial institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. With your performance, we've concluded by explaining the proposal for material. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Does the government want a word before that? Please, Minister. Ah, sorry! Before giving the floor to the Minister, the Chairman of the Finance Committee asked him to submit this report in a short, five-minute report. The chairman of the committee, Comrade Pucka, I apologize to you. I was looking forward to finding out that 58 were registered. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At all its meetings last year and this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly took the matter seriously. In addition to the full material received from last year's consideration of this point in the National Assembly, additional supplementary proposals for the conclusions of the proposers of this point were also distributed to the members of the Committee at its meeting on 26.2. The relevant opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was also forwarded. In the first part of this meeting, the Committee adopted the following conclusions: Firstly, the reports by 31 March of this year should also be forwarded to the National Assembly by the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Office. These reports should explain the activities they have carried out and will be carried out in accordance with their respective competences. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within 15 days of the end of the meeting, provide, through its member, the President and members of the state funds, the capital company and the Slovenian compensation company in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, a comprehensive report on investments and loans given to the Slovenian Investment Bank in 1996-2003 and any other types of claims and write-offs or adjustments to the value of claims to the SIB bank established in the framework of business cooperation or interbank lending until the purchase of the SIB and after it from the public company Energetic Ljubljana. In particular, the report should show a decrease in the value of investments by the State, the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the capital company due to a decrease in the value of the capital of SIB in 2002 and 2003. Thirdly, the Bank of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly by the last March of this year on the type and content of the measures it has issued in the control process of the Slovenian Investment Bank in individual years for the period 1996-2003. The report of the Bank of Slovenia pursuant to Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should also provide copies of the decisions and decisions it has issued. Fourthly, the Bank of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly by 31 March of this year on control measures in the years 1996-2003 at the Slovenian Investment Bank, in accordance with Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is the case for failure to implement its decisions and decisions. Petič, Slovenian Institute for Audit, should report to the National Assembly by 31.3.2004 on the control measures of the "TEO-beceda" audit house and its authorised auditors involved in the issuance of audit reports, the Slovenian Investment Bank’s accounts for the 2001 and 2002 business years, and Orion and Pay Consulting. Let me point out that the Slovenian Institute for Audit has already submitted a report on this proposal for a decision and has already been transmitted to the members of the Committee under strict confidential material. Šestič, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as co-owner of the Nova Ljubljanska banka, should explain under what conditions and how Nova Ljubljanska banka sold the claims of SIB banka. An integral part of this information should be agreed or charged on the value of the assets sold by the Slovenian Investment Bank and the payment conditions. Seven, the Ministry of Labour shall report to the National Assembly by 31.3.2004 on the implementation of the Interstate Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and financial assistance for the creation of the existence and professional integration of qualified workers of the Republic of Slovenia and on the extent and state of the State's obligations under this Agreement. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance should, by the last March, prepare an appropriate report on the correctness of the determination of the SIB interest rate to the parties who have rented such funds. In accordance with what I have said and in view of the Government's reports, which are being shared with the Committee's decision, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should forward all the relevant reports requested by its decisions adopted on 26 February of this year to the National Assembly, I believe that everything we have received in the course of the adoption of these decisions is necessary, taken into account and duly adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I will now give the floor to the representative of the government, the Minister of Justice, mag. Bisiak, then to MEPs and Members to present the views of the groups of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The operation of the SIB and its fate, as well as the relationship between the operation of the SIB bank and the operation of Orion and Pay Consulting, are undoubtedly issues that justify and also require government action. It is, of course, necessary to point out that the State is neither the owner of the SIB bank nor any of the companies involved and therefore has neither been able to influence or influence their business in any way. All those entities are considered to have operated on the market in accordance with or should operate on the market in accordance with the applicable legislation. Of course, such a perfect legal framework cannot prevent the anomalies that arise in business, irregularities, illegality and also criminal offences in this regard. Although the Government is not directly competent to prevent, detect and sanction criminal offences, it is nevertheless its task to verify that the system framework set up is sufficiently clear and sufficiently firmly established to reduce the possibility of irregularity, as well as to enable the detection of possible irregularities and criminal offences and in this regard the conduct of the competent authorities of control and prosecution. This is so much more, of course, because the consequences of such acts put many individuals in a very difficult situation. And with regard to such a situation and because of such a situation, the government cannot overlook such phenomena and must not remain indifferent. In this way, the government has comprehensively analysed the legal situation in the financial market and the business within the banking system. At the same time, it found that Slovenia had very well established a legal regulation governing the financial and banking market during the transition period, so that we can finally find that Slovenia has developed all financial institutions and organisations in the system of functioning and control. These rules are also largely in line with European directives, but the government has also found that these rules need to be supplemented in certain segments. It will therefore propose to the National Assembly amendments or amendments to the Securities Market Act and amendments to the Banking Act proposing adjustments aimed at strengthening the principles of modern corporate banking by strengthening supervision and enhancing the competence of the Bank of Slovenia in this area. The concept of the definition of internal information and the instruments for pooling supervisory institutions in the field of banking, insurance and securities markets should also be more comprehensive, with a view to enhancing coherence and thus improving the effectiveness of these supervisory functions. More information will be presented to you later by the Secretary of State, Mr Svilan, from the Ministry of Finance. Again, I stress that the government has not and should not have been able to decide whether to buy or sell the SIB to the bank and therefore cannot bear any responsibility in relation to these decisions. In addition, we stress that the definition of acts and the possible irregularities in the sale and purchase of goods is a matter for the competent institutions and procedures that are still taking place before the competent national authorities of control, prosecution and punishment. From the materials provided by the government, there are business connections between the SIB and Orion and Pay Consulting, but these companies were not only operated by SIB Bank, but by most banks on the Slovenian financial market. Therefore, it was not difficult for the applicants of the extraordinary meeting to find links between the operation of the SIB bank and the operation of the two companies mentioned above and to combine the treatment of this issue in a set in the context of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The candidates for this extraordinary meeting also proposed the adoption of certain decisions, for which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly found that they were partly or mostly illegal and did not fall within the framework of the Slovenian acquis. The Government, of course, wanted to assist and allow the National Assembly to have a full hearing at today's meeting, so it has provided, within its powers and powers, a substantive summary of all the requests made by the proposed extraordinary meeting and, for today's consideration, reports from the supervisory and other state institutions. The government also wanted to contribute, through its conclusions, to the greater effectiveness of today's meeting with materials, reports and everything that is available to you. The government therefore considers that certain specific additional decisions of the National Assembly in order for state institutions to function are not necessary. In particular, they would not contribute to this by means of conclusions, as proposed by the motions, since it is not possible to fight against possible illegalities, irregularities and criminal offences with illegal or even illegal means and, of course, in order to break relations between the public authorities, to alter their powers and to devalue, or even destroy, the work and very existence of these institutions. We have found in the government that the basic legal framework, which has even allowed Orion and Pay Consulting to develop up to the level of the current media dimension, in particular in the Consumer Credit Act adopted by the Government on 22 June 2000, and the State Assembly at an extraordinary meeting on 18 July of the same year, in 2000. The purpose of the marriage would no doubt be right. It is intended to regulate the area of consumer credit in the legal system in a comprehensive manner, and the central objective is to ensure the principle of consumer protection in this sensitive area, that is, in the area of consumer credit. Unfortunately, however, the legal standards clearly missed the goal, as the law did not allow controls on mortgage lenders. That is why the government has already set out a new law on consumer credit, which tackles these shortcomings and which has already been introduced into the national assembly procedure. It also follows from the reports submitted that the control system required and permitted by the rules in force has been dealt with in accordance with these rules and that the relevant state institutions have dealt with the issue of irregularities related to Orion’s operations before they have obtained a wider media response. As a result, the police filed their first complaint in February 2002 and then again in 2003 and January 2004. The tax administration exercised control in Orion and Pay Consulting since March 2000. In addition, we point out that the reports show that the subject of the notice in the forecasting procedure concerning whether or not the persons employed in Orion in 1997 were mentioned repeatedly here, was not the business of Orion, which is the subject of an examination of the current irregularities. Let me also mention that a complaint was brought in connection with the collection of information from 1997 in 1999 and the indictment against two persons was filed on 28.4.2003. So that job didn't go to shit. I would like to point out that a fairly good common basis for coordinated planning and work to explore all these irregularities is also the report of the Anti-Corruption Office, which can serve as the basis for the work of many other bodies. And all these public authorities will continue to work intensively in accordance with their responsibilities regarding the identification of irregularities and the sanctioning of responsibilities. In its conclusions, the Government called on all such authorities to strengthen their cooperation in investigating the suspicion of irregularities in the operations of Orion and associated companies with citizens, in particular with the coordinated functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, the tax administration, the foreign exchange inspectorate, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not necessary to mention that the Government has also imposed on all ministries to determine the responsibility of persons who run individual bodies or institutions who have been indirectly or directly involved in the determination of responsibilities in matters related to Orion’s activity, including with regard to the possible abandonment of acts, and to act in accordance with their powers and law if they find infringements. The government or the competent ministry has strengthened activities related to consumer awareness in the past year, in particular as regards consumer loans, as well as their legal protection. The Ministry of the Economy will, as the government dictates, prepare amendments to the work programme of the Consumer Protection Office and redistribute the programming resources into consumer advice. Allow me, at the conclusion of this work, to mention some more concrete facts in the area covered by the Ministry of Justice, and then other government representatives will present such facts from their point of view. The government has already ordered the preparation of appropriate amendments to the Notariat Act and the first draft of such amendments is already being prepared at the Ministry. It goes mainly three ways: sharpens the issue of the responsibility of notaries, changes certain provisions on the content of individual documents and also brings a type of novelty to the business of notaries themselves. On the other hand, as regards the prosecution in the reports that you have already received, it is stated that the prosecution considers two complaints against a total of three persons concerning the SIB. I would like to point out in particular that the prosecution's work is not yet finished. The handling of these complaints is still in the stage of the forecasting process and, of course, much work will be needed to bring this to an end. This is the case in the ORION case where the prosecution has already carried out a number of activities, in particular at the level of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, in the context of consultations on the qualification of individual alleged criminal offences, in terms of coordination and planning of work and participation of all those state authorities that can contribute to the clearing of open issues, but also to the effective detection and possible prosecution of crimes that would have been detected. As far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned: in the ORION case, the Notary Chamber had already called on the notary to report by the end of January if they had been involved in any business relating to Orion. On 2 February, the Executive Committee of the Chamber had already set up a special group to review the operations of notaries in these matters. This group was complemented on 23 this month for a simple reason, as it turned out that some previously appointed members had something to do with these matters and it would not be appropriate for them to be present in the group. At the same time, the Executive Committee of the Chamber invited the group to carry out its work as soon as possible. Let me also mention that the Government has called on the Notary Chamber to initiate disciplinary proceedings against notaries in all cases where any infringements will be detected. If this is not the case, such procedures will be required on the basis of the reports received from the Chamber of Justice, as we have already done in one of the previous cases relating to the so-called "Zbilijski Gaj". So, honourable Members, so much in the introduction to me, I suggest you listen to other representatives of the government who will carefully move some other areas in which the government, or where individual state authorities, have also been active in dealing with matters covered by this extraordinary meeting of yours today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to take the floor with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Master Sibil Svilan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a series of conclusions last year, similar to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy, as we have heard. Accordingly, the Government was ordered to prepare certain reports and a decision was taken to propose to the Government to submit appropriate amendments to the Council in the field of financial system legislation and to consider options or to propose solutions [[?]] the supervisory institutions, which are the most important decisions on what the predecessor has already said, Minister Bizjak. On the basis of these decisions, the Government submitted to the National Assembly in October 2003 a report on the findings on the sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank. The report also cited the Government's position on the necessary amendment to the legislation which it otherwise considers appropriate, but some amendments would be necessary in the light of the conclusions of the National Assembly. It is clear from these conclusions that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is required to implement, in the most appropriate way, solutions to prevent the recurrence or recurrence of such purchases or similar transactions, in particular changes in the area of the financial system, public finances and certain sanctions under the Criminal Code. In accordance with these guidelines of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and on the basis of market developments and changes in European legislation in this area, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared or is still preparing a series of systemic changes. The most important of these are: in May 2003, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments and additions to the Banking Act, which, among other changes, addressed some of the shortcomings in the supervision of the banking sector, which proved to be practical. Thus, changes have been made regarding the acquisition of a qualified share or the decision to obtain a qualified share, as was the case with the SIB. In order to obtain a qualified share, it is now necessary to obtain a prior authorisation from Banka Slovenije before acquiring it, and the owner of Banka Slovenije must inform the Bank of the intention to dispose of the share before being disbursed. More detail and clarity are also given the characteristics that will result in future qualified holders who do not fulfil them to obtain a qualified share, namely the characteristics linked to their legal or financial position. Sanctions are also provided for in respect of non-compliance. Changes have been made as regards the assessment of the integrity of bank board members who set out the stricter conditions to be met by the candidate for a bank board member. As part of the new amendments to the Banking Act prepared by the Government and adopted this week, further adjustments are proposed to strengthen the principles of modern corporate governance of banks and to increase Banka Slovenije's powers in the area of bank supervision. For example, in this context, the Government has set out the conditions for the performance of a member of the supervisory board of the bank, since the increase in the powers and responsibilities of members of the supervisory boards associated with amendments to the company law requires that members of the supervisory board are only persons with sufficient expertise to carry out this function and are ethically incorruptible. With these changes, the government assesses that certain shortcomings will be addressed. Furthermore, in October 2003, the Government set out the text of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the securities market law, which took into account the provisions of the Directives on market manipulation and trade on the basis of internal information governing measures to prevent and sanction such conduct in the case of a public company issuing securities cohort. Since that Directive does not apply to non-public companies with shares traded on the non-organized market, the Government has provided further, having regard to the decision of the Board of State Finance and Monetary Policy, in this Act, that the provisions of those Directives are also applicable to non-public companies which, in the interests of the protection of shareholders, must acquire the status of a public company. This means that the Securities Market Agency will be competent to control the misuse of internal information of these companies as well, thereby ensuring further supervision in these possible manipulations. At its meeting on 14 January this year, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy postponed the consideration of that law to one of the following meetings. Until then, the Government must draw up a new text in which it intends to introduce, in addition to the amendments already mentioned, the provisions of the two implementing directives, namely, the definition and public publication of internal information and the definition of market manipulation and the directive on fair presentation of investment recommendations and the disclosure of conflicts of interest, which complement the basic directive and which further strengthen the functioning in this area. In accordance with the above-mentioned conclusions of the National Assembly, the Government is also preparing amendments and additions to the takeover law. However, for reasons of rationality, it awaits the adoption of European directives in this area, which will be adopted in the coming months, and will then submit this law to the National Assembly for adoption. With regard to financial institutions and the merger project of supervisory institutions in the field of banking, insurance and securities markets, a working group was set up in June 2003, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency, which is to prepare the concept of pooling these agencies or institutions. At several meetings, the working group discussed individual stages of the concept of merger of supervisory authorities and discussed proposed possible models that would be most suitable for our situation and thus strengthen financial control. In November 2003, the joint mission of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank under the Financial Sector Assessment Programme in Slovenia assessed that, given the burdens of financial matters that Slovenia could be involved in the European Union, this year or in 2004, and that the introduction of the model of merger of supervisory institutions would often lead to disruptions in the functioning of those institutions, it would be more reasonable that, at this stage, it would only strengthen the good cooperation of those institutions and that mergers would be carried out later. On the basis of these changes, the financial system would provide for those changes that have filled out those shortcomings that have also been mentioned in relation to the treatment of SIBs. In connection with the tax checks on the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, it was not possible to disclose more accurate data to the public, since the tax review report contains data bearing the tax confidentiality mark under the tax procedure law. Of course, we can say that the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia has already carried out certain inspections in Orion and Pay Consulting and other related persons in relation to this company or companies. Inspections on the regularity and timeliness of taxes and other duties in Orion and related persons for 2001 and 2002 are still ongoing and will be made available to the public in the event of exclusion. In addition to this, it is necessary to clarify in respect of the other checks on the tax service that all financial transactions are assessed in the inspection procedures solely in terms of their taxation or the correctness and timeliness of the payment of taxes and contributions. Any assessment of financial transactions or the operation of taxable persons for the purpose of collecting information for other purposes goes beyond the legal framework of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the issue relating to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, let me explain that this Office first received documents indicating the suspicion of criminal services in relation to Orion on 22.5.2003, at its own request from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption, later on on 24.11.2003 it received additional documentation from the Anti-Corruption Office relating to this matter. With regard to the documentation adopted, the Anti-Money Laundering Office found that it did not contain any grounds for suspecting the crime of money laundering. While some suspected offences of extortion, extortion, abuse of trust and falsification of business documents were listed in the documentation, it was also clear from the documentation that the Office for the Prevention of Corruption had previously referred to the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, who were the only ones competent to deal with those crimes. Dear Members and Members, regarding the purchase of SIB, it is also necessary to say that the decision on the purchase of this bank was purely business motivation, since, in fact, the decision of the New Ljubljana Bank regarding the municipality of Ljubljana was little represented and is essentially a decision of the business nature and decision of the bank administration. Thus, no instructions were given to the supervisory board of the Bank from a country other than the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank. And the Governing Council decided to do so or was informed only later. The Government has also submitted other reports to the National Assembly concerning the decisions of the Finance Committee and, of course, of the National Assembly, detailing the procedures and information relating to the individual issues raised. On this basis, it assesses that the financial system, following the changes already made and which will also be adopted as soon as possible, is appropriate and consistent with the European financial order, as confirmed in the European Union report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I call on the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Mih Molan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members. I would like to brief you on some of the activities of the Ministry of the Interior or the police in the case of SIB Bank, Orion and other matters under consideration today. In the introduction, I would like once again to explain the misunderstandings that appear to be repeated with regard to the 1997 crimes. It is clear from the magnetogram of yesterday's meeting of the Finance Committee that it has been said that it is a crime which is not in any way linked to the business of Orion and that it is solely a matter of connecting persons who have been or are still employed in that company. So there is no way to link these events to later suspicions, irregularities in Orion. In this regard, police filed criminal charges in 1999 for suspected service 186 offences. These are offences of extortion, tax evasion, possession, explosives or weapons and, as has already been said, charges were brought against two persons in 2004 for tax evasion offences. This is a completely different matter and does not touch the business of Orion. As far as the SIB is concerned, the police filed four criminal charges for Orion in 2002 between 15.2. and 23.1.2004, or, pardon for Orion - during this period, the police filed four criminal charges against Orion, the first of which was 15.2.2002 and the last of 23.1.2004. And four reports in 2002, pursuant to Article 148, paragraph 7, of the Criminal Procedure Act, because the collection of the notices was not confirmed or evidence was not collected to support the suspicion of the offence and a report was submitted to the State Prosecutor's Office. To date, the police are considering 35 claims of injured persons in connection with the operation or rental of loans from Orion. And I must say that since the last public call to the police to have the victims report that this number has not increased significantly, it has been three applications in recent days. Thus, at present, 35 cases and the police, which established a specific group of criminals, deal with these crimes for the whole of Slovenia, i.e. they have taken over the investigation by the General Police Administration because the victims or offences are dispersed throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and will be dealt with in one place. With regard to the Government's decision and the hearing on the Finance Committee, I would also explain that when lending to natural and legal persons and the sale and purchase of real estate in 2004, which is now being considered by a special group of criminals, these criminals have never had any loans or been in any other civil relations or in connection with Orion. Therefore, we cannot claim this in 1997 because we do not have the data that those criminals who have dealt with those crimes, which, as I have already said, do not have anything to do with the current treatment to be Orion's customers, and we do not have the opportunity to find out at this point because we do not have a list of all the parties or this is not within the purview of the police to verify the parties. This can only be ascertained if all elements of the criminal offence are officially prosecuted, which will be confirmed or rejected in the pre-trial procedure. With regard to the SIB, the police have received the first request from the State Prosecutor for the collection of information concerning suspected suspected suspected offences in connection with the purchase of a majority stake in SIB banka d.d. in the previous year. Ljubljana filed two criminal charges against the responsible person of the SIB and in December 2003 against the responsible person of the public energy company. The investigation into these cases at the SIB has therefore been completed by the police, but this does not conclude the investigation, as Mr Janša mistakenly argued. So the police have filed criminal charges and after the investigation, the State Prosecutor will request the initiation of an investigation ordered by a court of law. At this stage, the request for an investigation has not yet been lodged or a decision to initiate an investigation has not been issued, so the investigation cannot yet be concluded in the SIB case. With regard to cooperation or idle business, as it is said - the conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Office, I would like to say that there has been no material from the Anti-Corruption Office that has been pointless or unusable, since it has been an extremely useful basis for police work. The police have been working closely with the Anti-Corruption Office, which is responsible to the Prime Minister, who clearly does not have investigative powers, and it is clear that he is communicating his findings to the competent authorities and the Prime Minister can expect the competent authorities to take appropriate action on the basis of these notifications. In this case, I must say that the appropriate action or reports have fallen to fertile ground and have been taken into account in the investigation of all suspected offences both in the case of SIB and in Orion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I call on the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economy, Mr Matjaž Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to say briefly about the activities related to amendments to the Consumer Credit Act. As Minister Bizjak has already said, the law was passed in 2000. It represents the transposition of Directive 87/102, which deals with consumer credits, and takes into account in its provisions all the exceptions that the Directive knows about which types of credit or which type of business are not taken into account, or is not considered as consumer credit. This also entails a restriction on market inspectorate’s powers of control. The government has adopted amendments to the Consumer Credit Act, which include, among the main changes, that mortgage-backed loans are also included in the scope covered by this Act. And, of course, this includes, within the scope of control, as well as within the scope of all other rights granted by law to consumers. In addition to defining the concept of a consumer mortgage contract, we have also determined that in cases where the consumer is the seller and the buyer of the same thing, these things cannot or do not count as bankruptcy in cases where the lender goes bankrupt and thus adds additional insurance to consumers and that they cannot be burdened with real rights without its consent. We have introduced the obligation of consumers to report. We have put in place a limit on the maximum effective interest rate allowed and have precisely defined the concept of the net value of the loan which has so far left various interpretations in line with the current definition. We have also introduced the possibility for the Consumer Protection Office to issue a consumer credit agreement not to issue it to the legal person requesting it, but it has already lost it for reasons specified in the law or has a person responsible for the offence of fraud or denial. Thus, those key shortcomings of the present law are covered or eliminated. Let me also say that, despite these changes, the law remains in line with the European Directive, but, unlike now the applicable law, which has been followed by the regime, as known by the Netherlands, Italy and Germany, is more inclined towards the regulation known in the Scandinavian countries and Austria. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Another last representative of the government I invite to the floor, the Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Boštjan Penk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I would like to point out that what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing to prevent corruption is, of course, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing. Indeed, it is not possible to overlook that we are still an institution within the government and that all our activities are in some way enabling, supporting and encouraging the government. Thus, to place on one side the findings of the Anti-Corruption Office, on the other hand the government's activity in this matter is not correct. In 2002, the Anti-Corruption Office began dealing with this issue as soon as it received information from city councilors. And some of you may recall that the then President of the Supervisory Board, the then Chairman of the SIB Supervisory Board of Banks, and in some way, have somehow complained to the then Prime Minister Drnovšk that we are working on dealing with the SIB Bank to do business damage to the bank and its partner. As a result, we have not stopped dealing with the case, but, within our competences, we have studied the case to this day, which has then been getting ever-new and broader dimensions. There's something of our work on the table today, too. These are some expert opinions, some additional opinions with some additional materials, so they have competent institutions within the government. But I think most of them do. I would point out that in principle we have not informed the Prime Minister of specific procedures in specific cases such as this case and the like, but in these cases we have informed the institutions which have the powers and powers to carry out further procedures, such as the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, the tax administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and other competent institutions, for which we have assessed, on the basis of an assessment of the case, that we could take action within the scope of our competences. The Prime Minister was informed of our summary reports when we regularly reported to him on our work or when he demanded that an individual case be reported by the institutions and among them by our office. In this case, the procedure was just as I described it. With regard to the material that Mr Janša used and referred to, I would say that in this case it is not an official opinion of the Office, which would have been sent to any institution, but for one of the working versions, we recognise the authorship, this material was dealt with at the Office, but these findings, which you quoted in the end, are not contained in any official document that would have been forwarded anywhere. Thus, I will not even let go of the way in which our work materials come and circulate in the public if I think, for example, that the top-secret material that we have forwarded to only the competent institutions was in the media the next day, then it is probably not necessary to ask how they come to the public about these work materials. For the accuracy of the procedure, I say that the Prime Minister did not have these findings before him, whether they are correct or not. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Janez Podobnik will present to us the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, representatives of state institutions. Allow me to begin by expressing my firm belief that the post of Prime Minister would be here. When a national assembly deals with a politically important issue, an important issue for the political credibility of the government, then the government's position must be defended by the Prime Minister. We expected him to be here today and perform. At the same time, I must say that the government, especially now during the meeting, has provided a series of very well-prepared materials which can certainly be the basis for the good decisions of the National Assembly. As early as last spring, we found in the National Assembly that the SIB's sale of shares went beyond the normal financial affair and that it had in fact revealed much more than just irregularities in the operation of the entire network of connected organisations. The SIB affair will be recorded in history as an affair that has revealed the infirmity of the entire system of supervision of financial intermediaries, public economic services, and unfortunately also customerism at the highest state summit. The Bank of Slovenia report, the Securities Market Agency, the Court of Auditors, the Institute for Audit, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the governments can be divided into three content sets, which, despite their connection, require separate treatment. The main component is the operation of financial intermediaries, including banks. The functioning of economic public services, where the Holding of the City of Ljubljana and the public energy company Energetics as actors of the affair and the set of activities of the supervisory institutions, is important. The treatment of both different content sets under the auspices of a single affair certainly obscures the transparency of the debate, because they really deserve a thorough and separate debate. Is it appropriate for anyone to intertwine all of the above? The operation of financial intermediaries, such as banks, insurance companies and brokerage companies and various funds, is a central subject of the SIB affair. Their common problem is ownership, as the most important companies of this kind are still in state or majority state ownership. These include privatisation institutions, which are mostly related to banks and so-called parastatal funds such as the SOD and the CAD. Together they form a sector that is a relatively underdeveloped part of the economy and will be among the most exposed when entering the common European market. This sector's services are also too competitive and therefore rely on close links with state institutions and state-owned businesses. Another important sector is the functioning of economic public services, where Holding Ljubljana, d.o.o. and public company Energetics, d.o.o. This sector of the economy is also highly uncompetitive because it is totally dependent on state and municipal prices and is unable to cope with more serious competition. Thirdly, however, the SIB affair opened up the scope of the supervisory institutions such as the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Court of Auditors, the State Prosecutor's Office and the system of audit of financial statements licensed and supervised by the Institute of Audit. The common characteristic of all these institutions is fragmentation and inefficiency. In particular, the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia has shown that there is a significant gap between the supervision of banks and savings banks and the imposition of sanctions. The report by Banka Slovenije - we have examined it in great detail - reveals a rather conscientious determination of the irregularity of the functioning of the SIB, but it has not been followed by an effective resolution of the identified shortcomings. However, the audit board passed the exam in its entirety. Over the years, auditors have issued positive opinions on bank accounts despite their obvious design and poor business. It is also worrying that legislation allows for such abuses and that the audit institute has not carried out its tasks of overseeing authorised auditors. All of these three clusters combine informal networks of individuals that affect the functioning of financial organisations, economic public services and state supervisory institutions. Economic companies and other organisations that are in one way or another connected to the SIB affair are state-owned or public-owned and are also associated with the government, the municipality of Ljubljana and the functioning of the most important political parties; their political power is very high. They have a key influence on companies and also on the functioning of supervisory institutions. The SIB affair and its consideration last year in the National Assembly unfortunately did not change the objectives of the main actors of the event, but it seems as if it helped to complete the financial plan in the best possible way for them, so that the SIB became the property of NLB, a shareholder company also owned by the majority of the country, and that traces of the irregular operation of all three of these sets are being covered up and becoming increasingly difficult to identify. So what do we propose in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the first set? In our view, there are sufficient reasons in the present documentation for the Government to carry out the procedure, in accordance with the powers it has, that the purchase contract is terminated. The government has all the conditions for this. Today, in the context of the debate and the adoption of conclusions, we will repeat the decision that we have proposed last year. We will propose that the government hire an independent foreign research institution to carry out a thorough analysis of the impact on the decisions of supervisory and regulatory institutions. Secondly, we will propose a decision that states that the government should prepare an analysis of the whole legislation governing the functioning of supervisory institutions in the financial and capital market and prepare a proposal for a law that will bring together the most important supervisory institutions in one alone. By the way, we have proposed such a decision in the National Assembly at least three times. And this will be an institution that will be independent of all branches of government: Bank control, capital market surveillance and insurance supervision. The law should grant the new institution actual independence from the government and from controlled companies, so that no direct or indirect representatives of the government, ministries or existing regulatory institutions, from the Bank of Slovenia, the ATVP, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, will be appointed in its bodies. The financing of the central financial supervisory institution should be carried out exclusively through the State budget as an independent budgetary consumer and not by the collection of flat-rate fees from supervised persons. I'm moving on to the second part of Orion's case. Yesterday in one of Slovenia's journals, we read: "Our sources claim that Attractor is only a post office drawer and that it is at the back of the entire SIB bank. The accounts showed us that in 1997 Orion rented ten million shillings of loans to one of the banks in Koroška, and directed it to the above-mentioned post office in Austria Attractor ordered ten million shillings from his account in Celovac as an investment in Orion's recapitalisation." This information seems very important to us to justify the direct link between the SIB affair and the Orion affair. Attractor is a company founded by Orion d.o.o. in Pay Consulting d.o.o. The installation, which we received two hours and a half ago, is written in relation to this connection: "SIB Bank received 10 million Austrian shillings from Attractor Project and Management from Hippo Bank in Klagenfurt to co-invest in Orion's foreign partner." Evidence: a copy of the SIB's receipt and inflow certificate from abroad 21.4.1997 and a copy of Swift on 21.4.1997. This is a material which, in our view, has been prepared very well by the Anti-Corruption Office. We received the material a few hours ago. With regard to Orion and Pay Consulting, I would like to state the following position of the Slovenian People's Party. The abuse of financial market systems that we have begun to detect in the event of a more or less politically motivated SIB shareholding is, as has already been demonstrated, also taking place through recent developments in the case of Orion and Pay Consulting. In these two cases, the abuse of law on the one hand and the insufficient functioning of certain bodies of public administration appear much more direct than in the case of SIB. If, in the case of SIB, we can think primarily of sophisticated abuse of law combined with formal but substantively inconsistent supervision of supervisory institutions, then, in the case of Orion and Pay Consulting, abuse is as real as hand. In particular, Orion, also on the basis of the material we have just received, has clearly misused the consumer credit law in a way that has placed money on the market for the use of contractual forms that have prevented adequate control. Thus, Orion made full legal use of exemptions under positive legislation, since credit contracts where the borrower’s liability is secured by mortgage on immovable property are exempted from inspection services. In our opinion, it was the arrogant and cold-blooded conduct of individuals who took advantage of the hardship, the severe financial hardship of people in Slovenia. This has resulted in the exploitation of natural persons with a clear direct purpose of harming them, at least with elements of fraud and fraud. Worse still, most of the people who were in financial distress were hired by these financial resources. Today’s material shows that there were many such individuals from Prekmur. Such actions have, in our view, been morally and socially rejected in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. We are particularly saddened by the fact that in this case he has completely cancelled the consumer protection system, except for the rare light exceptions of civil society organisations. In our view, the consumer protection system should be such as to allow proper, sufficient and adequate consumer protection as the weakest members or market participants. Unfortunately, all we have to do is find that, in the case of national consumer protection, with the help of a special office, we cannot talk about adequate and effective protection. In our view, the legislator's task is to amend the consumer credit law as soon as possible, in such a way as to allow the law to make it clear that, if a consumer mortgage credit agreement is to be concluded, it must be in the form of a notary record and there must be provisions which will oblige the notary to instruct the consumer accordingly about the legal consequences of the credit agreement and its insurance and, in particular, what the net value of the credit is, what the effective interest rate is and what the legal consequences are. From the material we have just received, which is still connected to today's debate, let me point out the following. The Ministry of Economy and/or the position of the letter from the market inspectorate reports that they have received reports of adverse consumer credit conditions in Orion, but have found that the matter is not within their jurisdiction because they were secured by mortgages. They did the same with regard to applications for obstetric interest. In the Ministry of the Economy's report, it should be noted that all state authorities are obliged to transfer all cases of suspected crime services to other competent institutions. However, the material shows that the market inspectorate has not done this unjustifiably. The second is about the operation of notaries. Colleagues and colleagues, would the Orion affair and the Pay Consulting affair have taken place in a Slovenian society of this dimension if notaries had done their job conscientiously? The material that I quoted earlier prepared by the Anti-Corruption Office, which is an integral part of the material that we received a few hours ago, reads: "Noting he knew, he could have known and had to know that Orion Ltd was selling real estate and under what conditions." Therefore, the notary knew or knew the content of Orion Ltd d.o.o.’s business, so it might be appropriate to point out to the party that, under the contract concluded, it had no guarantee that the property would indeed be its real estate upon payment of all the meals. On the basis of this finding, there is certainly still reason for the State assembly to adopt an amendment to the Notariat Act as soon as possible. Of course, that doesn't mean he's got a crush on the notaries. I am sure that there are very many honest and faithful notaries in Slovenia. However, those who acted in the Orion case will no doubt have to explain what they did. I would like to touch on the issues that relate to the situation of the people who have been brought into such an impeccable financial situation. The material prepared by the Anti-Corruption Office states: "In the event of the bankruptcy of Orion Ltd d.o.o. Banks, as lenders of credits to Orion, would have seized the mortgaged property for payment of non-refundable loans. Orion's clients would have lost their sold to Orion, and their repurchased properties. They would have lost all the meals already paid to Orion." Therefore, the parties would have only the right to submit their claim to Orion to the bankruptcy manager. Next: "The Orion Ltd company performed the chain. The larger number of borrowers had, multi-movement and real estate registered as owner, multiple credits could be leased, more credit could be offered. In the event of bankruptcy of Orion Ltd d.o.o. There is a likelihood that leasing agents, or real estate buyers, will be left without real estate in the land book, even if they have paid in part or in full the payments under the sale contract subject to the reservation of property rights." End of quote. Whether the country will let all these miserable people down, I wonder. Are there legal mechanisms under Slovenian legislation and also the Constitution to first determine who is criminally responsible, who is materially responsible for the damage to consumers and who is politically responsible? Isn't there also an example of Article 26 of the Constitution, which was so much talk when we discussed repeatedly in the National Assembly the return of possible injustices erased? Have the public authorities done everything they should in this case? These are the questions which, in our view, will also have to be asked definitively at the conclusion of the meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Bank, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, welcome! At the 30th extraordinary meeting of the United List of Social Democrats, when we first considered the responsibility of state institutions and public function holders in controlling the operation and sale of the SIB bank, the Group of Members of the United Nations stated clearly and unequivocally, and stressed that we advocate and support all the requirements for determining, as soon as possible and as objectively as possible, what happened to the SIB Bank, its purchase or sale, including the determination of the responsibilities of the holders of public functions and individual institutions. We have no one, nor do we intend to defend or even protect, because this would be detrimental to confidence in the rule of law and because we do not have any need for it. That is why we have also supported all the decisions of the parental committee and of the national assembly at that time. We have pointed out that, while our successful transition route to Europe is accompanied by too many unresolved issues, too fast and uncleared wealth of individuals, too many affairs involving violations of legislation or abuse of insufficiently defined and defined rules or laws. That is why it seems right and necessary for each such case to be investigated - and there is no SIB bank in this and there can be no exception - if it actually seeks to identify mistakes and responsibilities without politicisation and the tendency to show by the initiators today how everything is wrong with us, how no institution works, how no one explores anything and how no one wants to do their work. Showing and painting such relationships is unobjective. We further advocated that, in addition to the specific case of SIB, the bank should analyse and evaluate the issue of the rules or laws themselves, because we need to come to the knowledge and conclusions of the extent to which the existing legal order exists to the individual bodies listed in the conclusions on the preparation of the reports, it provides conditions and gives powers to act that allow the sanctioning of abuses in the acquisition of property and other benefits. Specific legislative changes should be proposed. Just voicing inappropriate laws and procedural obstacles to clearing up various detected irregularities is not preventable and acceptable to anyone. Also in this, I can say that we have an interest, as a coalition party, in the future meeting of the National Assembly on SIB, in order to further clarify and explore certain issues, if we jointly assess them; to propose further additions to individual reports, to request further information and data, to further strengthen the responsibility - all within the framework of the competence of the National Assembly and its control functions and with respect for independent institutions, such as banks, the judiciary, the prosecution, as well as the constitutional autonomy of the municipal community, which we cannot dictate to individual tasks and procedures, nor can we or must we put the national assembly into investigative tasks, as pointed out by the legislative and legal service. In the request for an extraordinary meeting, the assessment is also that the competent institutions have done nothing since the first reference to the extraordinary meeting. Reports say otherwise, or let us find out together. On the basis of the decisions adopted by the National Assembly at its 30th extraordinary meeting, the Government forwarded its report on the findings on the sale of SIBs to the Bank. It clarified its actions and practices in the current banking procedures and replied to other questions raised by the National Assembly. It pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia does not own shares of SIB bank, that the State did not sell or buy or participate in recapitalisations. It also claimed that the purchase of SIB shares by the public company Energetics had no implications for the state budget. The second is how the supervision of individual supervisory institutions over the operation and sale of SIB banks worked. If we further address and tighten matters in this direction, and if we follow up with further reports on measures to improve the functioning of supervisory institutions, we will support this in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The report also contains information on the necessary amendments to the financial system, public finances and sanctions under the criminal code. It is about amendments and at the same time harmonisation with European law on banking, which is just before the legislative procedure, the securities market law, the takeover law and some others, and it has also been pointed out that there is a key dilemma, the integration of supervisory institutions in the field of banking, insurance and securities markets. This is what is being done, not at rest, and solutions are being sought, especially at this stage in the enhanced cooperation of existing supervisory functions. The report on the findings of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the report of the Ministry of the Economy, the report and conclusions of the Ministry of the Interior, the report of the Ministry of Justice and the report and conclusions of the Anti-Corruption Office not only formally respond to the conclusions of the National Assembly, but also to the detection of links and irregularities relating to the SIB Bank, which has also led to criminal charges and indemnities. I am not saying this because in the UK Group, the Social Democrats consider that all developments in the issue of the purchase or sale of the bank have already been highlighted in relation to the SIB; nor is it because they would have found that everything is already finished with regard to the determination of the responsibility of individuals and institutions.If further checks are needed, they should continue. If we assess that additional or new reports are needed, let us accept the relevant conclusions and recommendations in this regard, but with the desire and desire to complete things rather than leave things open for political accounting without any solution. In the United Social Democrats' Group, we have undermined the conclusions of the previous extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and we will also support the conclusions of the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Council of 26 February 2004 or 1 March 2004, because we are against any form of injury, against fraud, against the abuse of legislation, against the excuses that no one is responsible for anything. We will support measures and actions that will increase the legal security of citizens and citizens and the legal security of good business. However, we do not want the SIB to become a plan for the political continuation of the National Assembly simply because some people just want to. In the framework of the time available to our Group of Members, MEPs and Members will also make themselves known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to continue with certain views and our views on the documentation that has been submitted to us, of course not this last one, which came an hour ago and a few more minutes ago, because this still needs to be examined, but, on the basis of what we have and have available in recent months, I would also like to mention a few things regarding the accession of the Attorney General to the conclusions of the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. Reports from the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia allow us to conclude that until then, at least a superficial examination of illegal acts and related suspicions of crimes committed by the competent authorities have taken place either in the decision-making or decision-making of the municipality of Ljubljana, Holding Ljubljana, Energetics, etc. We believe that this task should also be carried out on its own and independently, and so it can be concluded from the reports of the National Assembly that it is mainly the legal interpretations of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia, or with the various national authorities, that it seeks a harmonised legal opinion and is limited in particular to the individual provisions of the Public Finance Act. In our opinion, the regularity of the business of a public undertaking and the related suspicions of offences in the purchase of shares of SIB should be assessed in a comprehensive way, or also in terms of the rules governing the fundamental activity of economic services, the management of public undertakings, that is, economic companies, and municipal property or the law on local self-government, as well as of financing, of course, and that is the law on public finances, and the accounting of public companies, the law on accounting and the Slovenian accounting standard. We believe that, in particular, the final findings made by the Court of Auditors in its final opinion on the purchase of shares in the report of 31 July 2003 could be helpful to the Attorney General in determining the suspension of acts or the improper decision on the purchase of SIB shares by the public energy company. We also believe that the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia should also be interested in the poor operation of the SIB or in the causes that have led to losses or to the formation of reschedulings and negative capital and the final liquidation of the bank, and should be interested in the infringements in the operation of the SIB that the Bank of Slovenia has identified in recent years as the supervisor of banks or violations of the regulations and omissions of the management and supervisory board of the SIB in recent years. An investigation in this area should have started, in our opinion, at least a year ago, at the time of receiving the first warnings from the Government's Anti-Corruption Office. Finally, the information already publicly available on the close link between Pay Consulting and Orin and the SIB also proves this. Let me also mention that in this report we have received, for the first time, we have found an answer to our proposals that all these things must also be linked in the light of Article 244 of the Penal Code. Why? As it is true here that, under Article 243, we are confined only to trading in internal information on an organised market, and the fact is that our criminal code knows this concept of abuse of position, which in our assessment could be the subject of serious use in all of this work, which obviously awaits us. The Supreme Prosecutor's Office in the report to the National Assembly responds that there may be something possible under Article 244 but limited only to the specific case of the procurator of the public energy company and does not see, at least for the time being, any other option. In Novi Slovenija we believe that just Article 244 of the Penal Code can help us to make progress in this area. Let me just remember what this 244th article says. Anyone who, in carrying out an economic activity in order to gain his or her own or anyone else's wealth or property damage, exploits his or her position or crosses the limits of his or her rights or does not perform his or her duties, without being given any other crime, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. Second paragraph: If the act referred to in the preceding paragraph has obtained a significant asset benefit or caused a large amount of property damage and the perpetrator has been punished with imprisonment from one to eight years for himself or anyone else’s gain of such property or other property damage. Third paragraph: If the act referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article has been committed in order to obtain a non-profitable benefit from the offender himself or anyone else, the perpetrator shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year. We have a basis. We doubt, however, if we have that vital political power or political will to really do these things. I would also like to mention the report of the Securities Market Agency. On 6 May, the Securities Market Agency replied by a decision adopted by this National Assembly and provided details of its views, the information it had at its disposal, and also offered a comprehensive review of the changes in Slovenian legislation that would have been necessary in order for such matters to be caused or repeated. Let me mention that they are talking not only about the criminal code, but we personally and in Novi Slovenija do not agree with them, because Article 244 does not mention. It discusses changes, the securities market law, the acquisition law, the intangible securities law, the court registry law, cooperation between state and other authorities, and so on. For the time being, we have received only a proposal for a law, a change in the law of the securities market, but this is still in the process because we are waiting for the amendments to be presented by the government. Let me point out that in this proposal we have already read and I hope that we will read that the securities market agency is also involved in controlling the unorganised part of the securities market. We hope that this will not go away in the corrections that are being made. However, I would like to mention another point which has also emerged clearly from this report by the Securities Market Agency. And this is the topic that some of my colleagues have already mentioned, namely coordination between supervisory institutions. In all of these debates and also on the basis of these reports, we have finally come to the realization that there is, in fact, a coordination committee in which the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Market Agency and also an agency responsible for the supervision of insurance. Well, but what's going on here? We don't get that. Not only are we not clear, we know that this coordination has completely failed in the case of the SIB bank. Why do we say that? As it is clear from our legislation that if a stock exchange house has some business in an unorganized part of the securities market, it must report it to the securities market agency. We well know that Publicum actually made almost 50% of the purchases of shares that, on behalf of Energy, did Ali report to the securities market agency, as the law says? Yes, of course it is. These are the P1 and P2 forms that are the basis for all this information that the Securities Market Agency has also given us here. What did the agency do with this? They didn't talk about it in this report. On a specific issue in the parent's working body, the Finance Committee, which I have set up myself, has been well acknowledged by the Agency's representative, and we have done nothing about it. Well, you see, and here's the case. An agency that knew this was happening, that something very strange was happening, that someone was actually buying and selling it on the same day, that it was being dragged for a period of three weeks and that it was reaching a very high position in front of the capital of this SIB bank. She didn't tell anyone about it. Nor did Banka Slovenije inform its colleagues who are on this committee to coordinate the functioning of the supervisory authorities. Nor did she report that she knew and how she knew about these things. I remember when Mr. Vice Governor of Banka Slovenije on one of the shows of Slovenian television for the questions of a journalist, said yes, because I asked them - namely, representatives of Energy, do you know what you are buying? That's when he didn't tell us what the Energy team said. But he did not say whether or not he did - and we know that he did not explain to them, that they are buying cadayana. Thus, even the Bank of Slovenia did not report to the Securities Market Agency, the Ministry of Finance at its coordination meetings, that something extraordinary was happening here. So when we examine and wait for certain proposals that the government is supposed to be preparing, we hope that we will also get you, we must be aware that, regardless of whether we have, or do not have, the things written in the laws, if we do not have that essential political will, it is also pointless to have laws. Because that coordination was already there, but it basically failed. When I listened to the Prime Minister here today, Mr Justice Minister, he told us that the government is not responsible for these things in the sense that it should, but that its essential responsibility is to establish a system, and then, I hope, it also controls whether the system works or not. Of course, systemic solutions - they sound very nice. But if there is no control, and the rules of the game are not actually respected - then again there are empty words. And if we are talking about systemic problems, I would also like to highlight another problem on behalf of New Slovenia, which is also at the core of everything that is happening here. It is, perhaps, that you will find a strange matter; it is the role of the government in our financial market. I have already pointed to this in this National Assembly - the fact that the government has consciously decided to only be in debt on the domestic market. This means that she will not be in debt in the foreign markets to which she has access and thus better access than anyone in Slovenia, especially the private sector. That he doesn't want to be in debt where there are better financial conditions than at home right now. And this creates another issue, which is crucial: the private sector emerges from the financial market. And by pushing it out, it pushes it - just where and the person wonders where our people should go, if not to the different Orions, because the system doesn't work and is oriented so that it actually serves the needs of our people, our economy here and now. And this is also a systemic problem, for which the government has no hearing and does not want to hear; the Prime Minister still boasts how remarkable it is that the government owes itself only here and insists that the government will continue to act as a dry sponge that will suck everything up, push the private sector out of the domestic financial market, while at the same time pushing people to complete parties that are not controlled. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! It's nice to talk about new laws. It's not very nice that we're waiting so long for proposals to actually slow down, but the fact is, we find that there is no political will. I was pleased to hear the representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, who also took up the position that we had already proposed a year ago in this National Assembly. The SIB's solution was and is still very simple: this contract must be repealed, the money refunded, all investigated in accordance with the law and the thieves punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, guests at today's meeting! For less than 13 years, we have our own independent country, which we will bring into the community of European countries and nations in two months. In addition to 9 others, young countries, the Republic of Slovenia, have entrusted the current 15 members of the European Union with admission to the European Union. As a youth, even a teenage democratic community, the Republic of Slovenia first had to do much more in these short years of transformation than countries with a long tradition of democratic society, social arrangements, the market system, capitalism as a fundamental social system. Of course, the most unforeseen events occur when the old system is disrupted. As in the demolition of an old building, much more accidents occur than in the construction of a new high palace. In changing the system of property from general society to private society, we have witnessed a great deal of awkwardness and sudden unjustifiable wealth from individuals who have crossed the limits of reason and the average citizen of our society. In contrast to this richness, more and more people are struggling to get through life with low wages, pensions, or social assistance alone. The excuse for teenage years and childhood diseases of a young country is that in all cases we have witnessed in the past and in the case of the SIB affair related to Orion and Pay Consulting, fraud and fraud, unfortunately, naively thinking citizens, the incursion and how much the sale of the SIB bank has nothing in common. The appearances of economic crime, fraud, fraud can only be compared to an attack on a person under 15 years of age, as far as our country does not even consider them. The State has always had the right legislation to regulate this transition, and only violations and non-compliance with laws, the immeasurable lusting of the wealth of individuals and groups on the one hand, the unwavering and untimely action of the competent authorities on the other hand has led to individual affairs such as the SIB Bank, linked to Orion and other affairs already behind us. We do not claim that no one in Slovenia has done anything. However, we believe that the measures were too late, too mild, too determined at a time when they could be most successful, and the affair would not be an affair, but, for example, findings such as minor irregularities in the operations of SIB, Holdinga, Energetics, Orion and others involved. Since we can only question and question whether all the competent authorities in this country, which are paid by Slovenian taxpayers, have done their tasks in a timely, conscientious and correct manner, we agree in our parliamentary group with the proposed conclusions of the Financial and Monetary Committee and the measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, unfortunately, has taken a package of measures to bring the truth to the bottom and later serious action. In the DeSUS Group, we condemn all aspects of transition, such as the acquisition of formerly social, now state property such as fraud and fraud, whose victims are innocent, well-meaning citizens who trusted these companies or companies to improve their position or lives. In our group, we believe that we must get to the bottom of the truth, identify the culprits, treat them in a legal way, and punish them for what they are guilty. We do not agree with the advance general conviction of persons involved in an affair in one way or another are on the list of people with greater or lesser responsibilities. Any liability and involvement in the affair must be demonstrated and treated in a legitimate manner. When the bona fide end of this trial is decided by the competent court, this person or the culprit will also be responsible and guilty in our eyes. In the DeSUS Group, we continue to trust in the rule of law, and we are confident that they will be truly responsible for what they say, evidence that they are guilty and that they will be brought before a court of law. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are concerned about the impact and material damage on individual citizens and we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to try to find a way to help affected citizens. We condemn appearances, we do not condemn in advance until this guilt has been proven to an individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u40	By today's performance on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we do not intend to detect hot water and perform works that should have been done long ago by competent supervisory and other competent institutions in the country. I will discuss the global problem of Slovenian society, corruption and abuse of political functions in the poverty of Slovenian society and Slovenian property. The SIB affair is in the conglomerate of all affairs only one of the tops of the icy mountain and is by no means a lonely bird, is only one in the flock of all who have witnessed to them for the past 10 years. All affairs within the mandate of this and all previous governments, although fundamentally different, have a similar building. They rely primarily on the political support of ruling parties and remain undiscovered and unexplored because of the support of the parties mentioned above, as they also have more or less the same individuals coming back from the types or influences of the parties mentioned above. What is most worrying about the whole matter is the fact that virtually all affairs do not have the expected epilogue - penalized political officials and their supporters. As a result, the latter are becoming even more assertive and wholehearted and without fear continue the poverty of Slovenian society. To a large extent, however, corrupt political officials are also assisted by state officials, who are returning services to them in order to reach influential officials. In the Orion affair, we can see that this pattern has also appeared among notaries who are still supposed to be the last defender of citizens against many frauds, so they are also paid to protect citizens from the direct injury of many fraudsters, but obviously not paid enough. During the period of wild privatisation, Slovenia has been deeply sunk into the clutches of uncompromising fraudsters, who, through political power, continue to seize social property and turn it into private capital with the help of political allies. With this completely without shame and in front of the eyes of the Slovenian public, they give birth to themselves as capitalists and join many those who have become this in the midst of countless privatisation scams years ago. With this in no way do I oppose the market economy; I fully respect it; I just want to point out that the vast majority of Slovenian capitalists were fertilised with social property. Especially because this property is still within reach, and also because, in a new and short history, the democracy of Slovenia has succeeded and succeeds without punishment. What can the National Assembly do to prevent such and similar stories from continuing in addition to all the efforts made so far in the opposition party? Still an innocent decision, which would clearly require the Government and the competent institutions, cannot be taken if we know that the parliamentary majority will clearly oppose it. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we therefore call on all those Members of the aforementioned parties who have not yet failed irreparably in the various interesting, financial and other corrupt waters to join the opposition in reaching conclusions that will once and for all cleanse the Slovenian space of corruption, which as a bloodsucker consumes social capital and turn it into private. Let us do this together at least at the declaration level before Slovenia enters the European Union, whose goals and ideals we have so unitedly supported. Let us enter the European Union purely so that our citizens will be proud Europeans, not that Slovenia will be so receptive to corruption when it arrives, and that all future generations of Slovenians will avoid this much. In addition to the new injustices you have committed so far by citizens who are over 10 years of age under your rule, I ask you to spare them, if not for another, at least for thanking you for the many years of blind support they have given you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Once again, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would first find that the government has sent some people to this meeting who are likely to be very familiar with the background of this story that we are talking about today. The construction of Thursday's government meeting states that the co-ordinator of the government's performances at today's meeting is Prime Minister General Mirko Bandelj. Mr Mirko Bandelj was relieved of his abuse of office after the interpretation given against him at the time of the Interior Minister and then worked in Mira Senica's law firm. It is said that in the same office that carried out a legal review of the SIB bank prior to purchase by Energy, and found that everything was fine. Working in the same law office that did this review in a couple of days and charged for it, I think, nine million tolars. He is no doubt a great expert on the issue, but I doubt that the right person is here representing those who are supposed to investigate it. It's hard when you're investigating yourself. Because of the conflict, and even if there was absolutely nothing involved, he was employed there - because of the conflict of interest it would be appropriate for the government here to propose someone else who is not concerned. It is also interesting that the Ministry of Finance is represented by Mr Sibil Svilan, State Secretary in this Ministry, who, according to the Slovenian Television, was in one of the shows, following the departure of Mr Klemenčič, a candidate for the director of the SIB bank when he returned from LHV Frankfurt. I think he's probably a very good knower of this issue, too, if he's running for director of this bank. He may even tell us why, but I doubt that he is an appropriate representative of the state institution at this meeting. In those days, when much of what has been done, what has not been done, what needs to be done, we have also heard various reports from the Ministry of the Interior, especially on the Committee on Finance. It was quite awkward to answer a number of questions. Especially the strategic one. This strategic question is: Why are all the so-called affairs that we have been following for 12 years from the LES bank, via the Kranjska and other savings banks, the Red Cross and so on, the law enforcement authorities only get involved when it has been in the media for some time now, when everyone else is talking about it, especially when it comes to economic crime, where it comes to larger sums or billions. I think the answer lies in some systemic error which is deliberately embedded in this system and which is very clear from what the criminals have said; it is true that people who are supposed to pursue it themselves. Recently an article appeared in Mago, which also quoted their statements. The title is "System-Disabled Persecution." And let's see what they say. "The proportions in the economic crime sector are all earlier than the rosaries." Erhatič, who probably works there, admits that "the most impoverished sector for economic crime is among all in the criminal service," this statement said last year, "is among all in the criminal service the most impoverished since the prosecution of complex crimes deals mostly with criminals who have very little experience in this area. They find that there has been a gap between younger and older criminals, because in recent years they have lost most of the most experienced middle-aged staff." Igor Lamberger, also apparently from the criminal police, points to a significant fluctuation that has been increasing and increasing in recent years. "We still win people some way, but many leave after about one year, when they take the crime course." Where do criminals who are trained to prosecute economic crimes go? Some have moved to an economy where they find better paid services, as well as less burdensome working conditions, and much to other state supervisory institutions, tax and customs administrations, foreign exchange and market inspectorate; in short, where jobs are better evaluated. Inspectors, taxpayers and customs officers are better paid. I'm sure it's not the opposition that sets wages on the board. It is important to ask who has been talking all these years about combating economic crime, maintaining a state where there have simply been no people successfully fighting economic crime. I think that gentlemen, Minister Bohinc and Secretary of State, Mr Molan, should answer this question in particular. Now what I read wasn't the only appeal from the crime department and the crime police in recent years. There's been a lot of talk about it. Last year, we also had a press conference where it was said that everything was going to be different. As a result, 12 new people were reportedly invited. You need 12 new people to work on one particular case that's hard. We're just wondering what the result was. So here's the answer to the question, does the government really do what it should do? It's not working! It doesn't work, because if the government doesn't have enough people to fight economic crime, then talking about doing it is empty. Moreover, according to the statements made by the responsible people in the criminal police last year, it is from the time that all of this happened, as we are talking about today, that the Department for Combating Economic Crime in the Criminal Police is the most impoverished. No wonder the situation is the way it is. There's probably other things here. In an interview with Mr Lujar in Dnevnik, we were able to read his statement, which says, "There are people from the state administration, ministries, police, economics and non-economics among our 5,000 customers." A short cut from all the departments. This statement can mean nothing, but it can mean a lot. What we heard earlier from Mr Molan, if you study, or if someone who is investigating, also has some credit from Orion, it says little, because it would be significantly worse if this loan had some kind of boss. This would have a significant impact on the investigation itself. The decision we have proposed has been rejected by the government majority on the Committee on Finance. Everyone simply voted against it if the government would explain it on its own without our decision. As she explained, we heard. She explained differently than we asked, and I ask that this be supplemented. Now in various media were also published various tables on who was taking cars at Orion's leasing. Only Liberal Democracy is mentioned among the parties, among the names known, only Gregor Golobič; I do not know the others on these lists. It could have been a perfectly legitimate business concerning the legality of specific legal or natural persons. However, according to the data also available to investigators, it was not a legitimate business, as it concerns leasing because the same vehicles, the same assets were set up for different purposes several times, and it is questionable. Surely, however, there is a company, especially if it deals with suspicious business, in a better position if it says to its customers "we give us to leasing cars, we are a credible company, we also have known cars for leasing, or a major government party". That's not relevant in this business. I think that one of the key problems that has resulted from the fact that 12 years have been in power on a 50-year basis is that the border between personal and public interests has simply been wiped out. In the last days, the propaganda material of the Medvešek&Pušnik stock exchange house was shared by collectors in Slovenia. What bothers is that this material lists the Director of the Government Office for Macroeconomic Research and Development, Mr Šuštaršič, who has a solid interview, but is announced as advisor to the Supervisory Board of this stock exchange and brokerage house. A person who is paid out of tax money to assess the situation in the whole country, the macroeconomic situation, advises only one specific brokerage house. I don't know whether he's paid for it or not; even if he's working for nothing, it's something that just doesn't qualify as a public servant who has to treat everyone the same way. Apparently, he doesn't feel bad, or I wouldn't give an interview for this ad. However, it is discriminatory treatment of other stock exchange houses. And these two, as I have just stated, are proof that this line between what is permissible for those in the public service and what is not, between personal interest and public interest has simply disappeared in these twelve years to do domestic work. Also, what we heard on the Committee on Finance at the last two meetings, and even today, czech, the complaints brought against those responsible from Orion and related companies in 1997, have nothing to do with this particular situation. I don't know. I don't know any names. After what was heard, these are the same names that now appear and are then. If it is now a fraud, but then it is a tax evasion, it cannot be said that it has nothing to do with it. It is clear that the indictment lodged in 1997 cannot talk about the crime that took place last year. I guess these two aren't really connected. The question is elsewhere and this question has not been answered. The question is why nothing happened with these complaints filed in 1997. We don't know yet. They're discarded. Are they obsolete? There were obviously no trials. Well, at this point, it's the end of this logic that it has nothing to do with it. Because if it were the same people from the same company or the same legal entity, then the procedure that would have run, even if there had been another case, would have prevented this behaviour that had occurred in recent years when thousands of people had been defrauded - surely - probably if the procedure had gone in the direction of an investigation that the prosecution should have initiated, because there had been obvious arrests there, and it would have been public knowledge that people would not have invested money in this house, which is being investigated for such or other criminal offences, even for tax evasion. And to say that it's not connected is, of course, funny. Also, the claim we heard, czech, only 23 injured people reported damage, and then something else when the investigation came forward. This is not an argument that the damage is not greater, but put yourself in the position of those who have received credit in this house. So far, hundreds of times in various newspapers have been able to read that the real disaster will only be if Orion goes bankrupt, because what they've set up is set forward and they'll lose all the property that's under the mortgage. Who in this situation are you hoping to say anything? They just pray and hope that this bankruptcy will not happen because the situation will be even worse for them. These are the Faust treaties, and here by a government official to hear how this is probably not so bad, because only 23 applications, with such a situation, sound extremely cynical. People have no other hope than to wait for no bankruptcy. Because if they know that if there is a bankruptcy, it will be like the case of Sicura, when the savings office went bankrupt, but they have lost everything or in the case of the Kranj Savings House, where the same story was, and some other 10 similar cases. And I ask that at least these people not be offended by such statements. The fact that the SIB investigation was concluded, as far as the sale was concerned, was not my statement by Mr Molan, that was Mrs Cerarov's statement. She said that this was concluded last December and nothing is being investigated. The forecasting procedure has been completed and is not intended to be extended. The prosecution could order the police to continue to investigate, but it did not do so, and it does not intend to do so yesterday after her statement. So you didn't polymerize with me, but with the Attorney General. As far as the corruption office is concerned, I don't know which version is right or wrong. We only note that there is no version of this government material to answer a number of questions about this a few sentences later. But the fact is that your office, Mr. Penko, has come to a conclusion and this is already in May last year, which shows that it is not only about extortion, but that it is about related acts, essentially about the operation of a criminal association in order to cheat the crowd. That's roughly what it says in the material signed in the winters of the Undersecretary of State from your office, and you had this information. You say you did not give it to the Prime Minister, but to other competent authorities. Okay, but what these competent authorities did from May to today, that the charges were filed only recently, a few days ago. During all this time, this theft continued; even after the media had been reported for months and months or weeks and weeks, the evasives were extremely large for two months. czš, we're studying the matter. It was not a new case; in January 2004 Orion was no longer a new case. I believe that the full legal qualification of the crime stems from this formal or informal material of Penk's Office, which bears the date of May 2003. Where have the official authorities' official approvals been lost at this time? Well, at the end of the day, there are about a hundred pages of this material that we have received today. I congratulate Mr Sponik, who, after 20 minutes, found that this was a very well-prepared material. I haven't been able to do this in 20 minutes. And I don't think my colleagues are either. There's a lot of numbers in there, a lot of tables, quotes of laws, so this session won't have a meaningful conclusion if we don't stop it for as long as we can study it. So, at least for one day and then continue. Another possibility is that if it is later discovered that things are different from what was said here, we will convene another extraordinary meeting. Just don't tell me then that we're wasting valuable time on this. At the end of the day, perhaps two more sentences on how to proceed. After the first extraordinary session, very little happened. Three criminal charges against direct contractors at the SIB bank. Let's hope there's more to it now. At least before that, we heard great promises from the Minister of Justice, representatives of various other institutions. When it came to a much more difficult matter and the more serious bankruptcy of the Italian Parmalata was in a few weeks much known and clear and things immediately began to clear up. Let us say that for all these reasons that we have talked about before, the authorities cannot turn to us so quickly. But I think in three or four months you can. And we expect results by mid-summer. And we promise that this National Assembly will have an extraordinary September session on this same subject, unless concrete results are available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jelko Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the Government, the Bank of Slovenia, the Attorney General, the affected or involved public at the gallery, citizens and citizens. This transmission is a public event. And this meeting is intended for the public, so I would like to introduce a few thoughts that are related to this public image and to the public sitting that we are presenting today. First of all, I would like to thank you all who have the right to vote for supporting the procedural proposal that both the Bank of Slovenia and the Attorney-General have the opportunity and the opportunity to say something about it. Because we're the last ones to have anything to say about this. The first are some others. Secondly, I would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and especially the Minister of Justice, Mr Bizjak, because this is an extremely judicial challenge. And I, when I discuss it, stress that I went to law school, but I have not studied and I do not feel particularly qualified to argue with the legal profession here, how procedures are conducted and whether someone has done enough or not. This debate today will be very political and I would also like to thank the Director of the Office, Mr Penk, who has already stated several facts at the outset that the majority of the people who requested this meeting wanted to hear. Now that I have heard a few people and cannot replicate, I am sure that Mr Pogorjevac, the recent director of our police, will certainly be the ring when he watches this transmission. For so many ugly words about human resources, weakness, incompetence of the Slovenian police, as we have heard here today, are unworthy. I think that the law enforcement authorities are certainly trying and that some assessments were extremely unnecessary. But when they urged me in the Group of Members to speak today, of course, I was not in favour of that. But it was because of the public opinion that they were convinced that I might speak a little differently from most of the debaters. And that's why I want to, [[Thank you very much, Jože. That's a nice compliment.]] , so I want to say here some thoughts that might be a little bit different from everything that's been confused and spitted out here so far. It is possible to talk about each affair, irrespective of the agreement that it is undoubtedly an affair, an illegal act, in two very different ways. On the one hand, one can try to get to the bottom of the truth, find out who the protagonists of some controversial act, what their motives were, whether the competent authorities have abandoned certain mandatory acts by law, or whether the legal order has foreseen and has sufficiently regulated an area and so on. Such an approach does not have a pre-emptive answer to all these questions; the answers are only sought, sought and examined. Therefore, it does not choose, select, on the basis of some of its previous ideas, what should be behind it, some pre-judgments or prejudices, but takes them into account, for the facts, and only with their help draws close to the final conclusions. Knowledge comes at the end, not at the beginning. Such a way that many understand as fair and civilized is more time-consuming and professionally tiring and, in particular, it is probably important to us today, is media-uninteresting - no circus can run over when you sit and eat paper. You don't get political points fast, or you can't get them. In fact, political plus fighting is a marginal gain and the short term is only a long-term consequence, you get less on short notice. But the second approach is the opposite, with all the answers available in advance, he knows everything before anyone asks the question at all. Facts are often an obstacle, so they are an obstacle on the way to interpretation, so they do not count or need to be staged from the outside or skipped. The hypnotic media statement and the political agenda are in charge of finding what is meant to be the truth; it is supposed to be the truth. The side effect of such an approach is at the general level devoid of the civilisation level of our debate and, of course, is also defeated for the reputation of the national assembly as an institution and a temple of democracy. In specific matters, another effect is even more concerned if it is said to be so; direct culprits, possibly sleepy supervisory institutions or even the legal irregularities of many people are not really interested, and it may therefore be that there is a lack of justice and other causes or circumstances that have made it possible for an affair to be resolved. Any detail of this description with our current political media reality is completely random, in other words: it is conscious, so I say that everyone understands this connection. Without any hope of having a significant impact on it, at least it should be noted at the beginning of this debate. In stock, and more for the future than for the present, because the abuse of political and media tools is now more likely to turn against those who do so, because they are themselves violating and undermining the criteria on which much more depends than just current glory. When such criteria fall and fall, it does ring to all, not only to those who, with our greater or less favorableness of those moments, find themselves beneath them as victims of such matters. For which of the approaches described so far have the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia been taken, it is probably clear to the Slovenian public and to everyone. So let me speak openly and openly about today's subject. First, let me reiterate what has been said several times. The SIB and Orion cases are cases of an affair that have criminal signs and call for a thorough investigation into all the circumstances involved and all the circumstances that have been affecting them. The LDS not only has absolutely no reason to oppose or in any way interfere with such an investigation; on the contrary, we want the truth to come to the bottom that everyone is responsible before the law for their actions. Everything the government has done so far confirms such purpose and determination. In this context, we support the work of the competent law enforcement authorities and other supervisory institutions, and we expect consistent work and well-founded final answers from them as the public does. What is today on the basis of the new facts and our opinion on both matters? First one we've known for a long time. The purchase of SIB was a result of perhaps well-intentioned, but obviously reckless or ill-intentioned ideas of the former Ljubljana authorities, so that our capital, following the example of other countries and other major cities where banks often own cities or regional authorities, would acquire a bank that would better service its needs. That was the point. It is true that criticisms and doubts about the usefulness of this business have already arisen at the time of purchase. At a special meeting of the city council of Ljubljana, which was soon after the purchase of the request of opposition parties, the then energy management explained that it was an investment in the financial surplus that was accumulated in energy in previous years, mainly due to the profits from the production of heat for the remote heating system, after the Ljubljana TeTOL switched to the combustion of cheaper Indonesian coal in 1993 and the heating prices did not decrease. In particular, in the form of bank deposits, the energy used to impose financial surpluses, the profitability of which decreased as a result of the abolition of the basic interest rate. The purchase of a smaller bank was justified by the fact that the bank would then provide certain specific services to the owner and faster and more favourable conditions than the beginning of large banks, while also providing financial services to other urban needs. According to the original plans, the Bank should be strengthened by transferring part of the deposits and the payment turnover of urban enterprises and funds, which has never occurred. Whether any of the protagonists had a purchase on the side of the city, Energy, Holding or anyone who could or could influence the decisions made, any other, private motives, is being investigated by the police and the prosecution; but they will tell us about it when they know something definitive. Prior to the purchase of the SIB, a preliminary valuation report was drawn up with the assistance of an external expert, serving as the basis for the revised 2000 annual reports, the balance sheet signed by the company’s management at the time, and the presentation by the management of the bank. A careful legal review of the bank was also carried out prior to the purchase. On this basis, negotiations started with the same price. A careful financial review was not carried out prior to the purchase, which was irresponsible and undoubtedly has to be considered bad for customers. Although it is also true that a careful financial review of the competent institution, which was carried out shortly after purchase, did not later reveal the exposed dimensions of the bad situation in the bank. At that time, KPMG’s domestic subsidiary reviewed more than half of the bank’s credit portfolio. On the basis of its findings, the Bank has established additional reservations for 2001 and 2002. The Bank was very conservative, i.e. in a high proportion, which far exceeded the banking average in Slovenia, it created reservations and almost all loans were mortgaged. I apologize to the public if I have a problem with your financial statements, but this is a matter of professional concern. Even after the last valuation report of March 2002, the market value of the bank above the bookkeeping and purchase price. The Bank was, of course, under the control of Banka Slovenije all the time, which apparently did not reveal anything special until December 2002, when it demanded the recapitalisation of the bank due to the need for additional reservations. These facts suggest that particular attention should also be paid to the issue of the credibility of audit institutions with public authority and the obligation to guarantee the credibility of the companies they review. And that's not just a Slovenian problem. Remember Enron in the United States, which is still shaking the United States today. However, we have paid insufficient attention to this in Slovenia so far. If I return to the SIB, the need for recapitalisation is expected to arise for several reasons. Firstly, according to the findings on the basis of credit card regulation from the time of the old bank administration, some credits need to be increased. Second, from changes in the performance of certain borrowers. And thirdly, from the obvious purpose of the bank’s administration to make as many reservations as possible - listen to this! - provide extraordinary income or profits in the coming years when the loans for which the reservations have been made would be repaid. However, in the midst of a violent media-political affair that arose immediately after the Bank of Slovenia issued its request, the municipality rejected the proposal for the recapitalisation of SIB and Energy could sell it to Nova Ljubljanska Bank in considerable time for a price that was much lower than the purchase price. In the end, the new owner decided to liquidate the Slovenian export bank, pardon, investment banks, and before that to sell part of the bank's claims from the lowest rating class for which it recovered a relatively large amount. What will be the final financial impact for the New Ljubljana Bank as well as the real quality of the reservations that the SIB has created and thus its real financial value, we will all see together only at the end of the liquidation process. There is no doubt, however, that this transaction was a major financial failure for Energy and its owner, for which everyone involved must be responsible. As you know, the former mayor has assumed political responsibility, and various complaints have been filed against some of the previous SIB and Energy Boards, mainly regarding alleged mismanagement and non-reality of the banking situation. So far, there is not enough indictments and there is no evidence of organised crime. By the way, the LDS council proposed the establishment of a special commission of inquiry led by a representative of the opposition, but the opposition in the Ljubljana municipality flatly rejected this proposal, giving up this option. It's a completely different matter with Orion. According to the data and previous investigations and reports prepared by the various authorities, it is the suspicion of the so-called chain, i.e. the pyramid structure by which the company has continuously accumulated its assets by exploiting the financial distress, ignorance and credulity of its customers, perhaps even with the help of notaries who have not fully performed their legal roles or who have, perhaps, acted knowingly against it. First, the company purchased real estate from its borrowers, obviously not to pay their purchases at any time, and then gave them the same real estate back to leased by the Borrower at Orion, at least in some cases much lower than never received the purchase, but the contractual arrangements were such that at the time of the two-month delay in the payment of the instalments, the borrower finally lost his property. And at the time of his entry into the land book, this same landlord landed and at the same time claimed that he had received a full loan, even though that was not the case. Here's the root of the problem. In this way, Orion set up the acquired properties himself to foreign banks, which on this basis gave him credits to finance these transactions further and extend them. The SIB is here as a lender of Orion's funds, by which it financed fictitious purchases and sales of tractors to farmers, again in the way that the borrower received substantially less funds than it had to pay back. The role of individuals in the SIB will still need to be explored. However, the fact is that with this practice of lending Orion's transactions, the new SIB management with an explicit decision of June 2002 terminated Orion's loan contract with Pay Consulting. Therefore, this happened six months before the letter from the Bank of Slovenia assessing that the Bank of Credit did not approve in accordance with good banking practice and recommended that it investigate the liability of the bank’s employees associated with it. Once again, I want to say that these are very difficult topics for us Members, and I believe that more for the general public. We read these materials because we have to read them because otherwise we cannot discuss them. But once again, I've had a lot of trouble monitoring the red lines myself. I have mentioned the pyramid structures, ladies and gentlemen, and this reminds me of the vivid image of the unrest in small Albania, which has fundamentally shaken the unfortunate country and made the poorest even poorer. They robbed the whole country, they stole all the weapons, people fought for their rights, it was a pyramid structure. And here's something like that. At the time, I wondered how it would be possible for someone to fall in and decide to participate in a project like this, and it didn't fly to you at the gallery. How is it possible that someone is going into a project like this? But I would like to remind you that we also had a catch the cash game, which is the same story, the exact same "packing" would say in the south. And that's what's been going on with us a lot. I would like to remind you of the Grubelič affair, where many Slovenians and Slovenes have inherited promises of material advantages and now I wonder when it will rest in Croatia, where many, including our citizens, participate in a project called Gem Collection and are regularly gathered in Crikvenica every weekend. You probably know someone who decided to make money that way. Your Honor! Each, including the best society and the best country we can imagine and invent today, cannot completely eradicate crime. It is also true that those who are obliged to detect and prosecute crime do not operate and cannot operate wherever crime may occur. They can only act after they have learned about the problem when the crime has been committed in short. Those who have so far investigated the controversial actions that we are dealing with at today’s meeting find that the documents have been drawn up so skillfully that they are not at all suspicious of each other. Only when we look at them together can we figure out what this is and what the actual damage was to a con man. When certain victims of these acts finally spoke to the public, the competent authorities also acted immediately. We already have a whole range of proposed measures ahead of us, including the first proposals for appropriate regulatory changes to prevent or ensure better social control over this type of credit that has not yet been covered by the consumer credit control system. For example, consumer credit laws should include mortgage credit contracts and short-term credit contracts for up to 40,000 Tolars for three months and credit contracts, also provide for supervision of credit to consumers by non-profit organisations, withdraw a consumer credit permit in the event that the lender requires a balance sheet or a check at the time of conclusion of the contract and so on. Well, now it's interesting, especially for Mr. Bayuk. It is interesting to note that the adoption of the law that we are trying to amend, which has so far not allowed controls on mortgage lending, at a time when the parties who requested today's extraordinary meeting were in power. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, the Consumer Credit Act has been proposed by the Bajuk government, following a rapid procedure. According to the proposaler, the law is intended to provide a higher standard of consumer protection in the Republic of Slovenia and to contribute to a favourable report on Slovenia's progress towards bringing the European Union in legal order for 2000. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, the bill was warmly supported by a respected colleague, Kelemin, who felt that the law would contribute to transparency, accuracy, control and also to the modern views of the European Community, and in particular to protect simple people from exploitation. As can be seen from the accompanying materials - I repeat, because you find it funny - it is possible to estimate that the legal framework that allowed Orion d.o.o. to be involved is a legal framework. There was an irregularity and possibly illegality in a company, a consumer credit law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 June 2000 and sent to the National Assembly with a proposal to be dealt with in a rapid manner and to require the extraordinary needs of the State. The law was adopted by the National Assembly at an extraordinary meeting on 18 July 2000. The aim of the law is to comprehensively regulate the area of consumer credit in the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia and the central objective is to ensure consumer protection principles also in the area of consumer credit. Obviously, however, the legal standards did not follow this objective - on the contrary; the law did not allow controls on mortgage lenders. That is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up a new law on consumer credit, which corrects those shortcomings and which has already been submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. [[So to enhance a little historical memory.]] In doing so, the government did not take into account the comments of civil society, consumer organisations that wanted to regulate this particular area. This was rejected on the Committee on the Economy. He was led by a colleague of Izidor or Dore Rachc. The proposaler - for those who also leave you in memory - was Dr. Senjur of the Slovenian People's Party, who was then a departmental minister in this area. I'm telling this so that we don't get too excited about what was going on and what wasn't happening, because [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u45	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For if I take into my hands the report of the Anti-Corruption Office, which has no confidentiality mark signed by the Director, Mr Boštjan Penko, writes, and I now quote: "In the entire issue of the apparent purchases of agricultural machinery by Pay Consulting in cooperation with SIB, the connection between the SIB and the Ministry of Agriculture has not yet been clarified in any way. According to the SIB document ‘Controlling of the entry of use’, the SIB was able to account for the subsidy. The Office does not have any documents that would form the basis for the calculation of the subsidies. The Ministry of Agriculture should clarify in the matter whether it has cooperated with the SIB in recent years and, if so, should specify the scope, type and purpose of cooperation." This issue also needs to be clarified further. I do not want to give in to the cheap temptation and style that has been cultivated in the SDS and Nova Slovenija in recent months, to the legislative process that I have talked about and called it twice, for the apparent suspicion of connection between them and Orion or anything like that. I don't want to talk about it. On the contrary, I would like to point out that the primary task of the National Assembly is, above all, to adopt, while at the same time continuously complementing and reviving legislation, not automatically and on the basis of a daily political invoice, taking over the tasks of the investigating authorities or even the prosecutions and the speedy courts We are not an investigative body, we are neither voluntary prosecutors nor we are a fast court. I suggest that we not use these extraordinary sessions further to actually use cowardly political accounting, but rather to boldly discuss the real problems. Because those on the balcony have serious consequences for the problems that have arisen because of the legislation that we have adopted. In this way, we will also tell those who are in debt without prejudice and every aspect of the prosecution of crime and finally to bring legal judgments on behalf of the people that they are all the same in Slovenia before the law and that they have our unreserved support. Thank you for your attention, as well as for your volunteering on the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. The last presentation of the SNS Group's position is before us, followed by a debate between Members and Members; I will also tell how I will lead it. Can you please all take your seats in the hall? Peace. My friend Peca is the only one who has a word. You're the only one with a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u48	Mr. Pahor, I am [[.....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u49	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u50	Thank you for my only word, but obviously my fellow Members are not aware of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u51	Comrade Jerovšek. Please also allow my colleague Pecet to calmly, without noise in the Chamber, state the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u52	Mr. Jerovšek, can I ask you to calm down? Thank you. I know that it is not customary and against the rules of procedure that, in the context of the debates or opinions of the groups of Members, it refers to one of the groups of Members that has been or has been addressing Members before me, but what we have just heard is mockery. This is a mockery from this country, a mockery from the legal order, especially when someone is in a good way in terms of delaying and identifying and highlighting, and the public authorities will do something when they do, but to speak something about it by then, it is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, we speak politically, we are politicians, so talk and disrespect the debate with this, if this is a political debate, it is a reflection of weakness. But since I can already see that the leader of the Liberal Democracy and the head of Mr Kacin, on whom the plane is critical, advertises, I will talk about the topic that is on the table today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims that the State is neither owner of the SIB bank nor of the financial persons involved and is therefore not responsible for the operation of these institutions. As long as such an opinion prevails in this country and as long as it prevails in this country that the government does not have to comply with its legal provisions; therefore, that the executive branch of the authorities not only enforces but also enforces law in the country through its institutions, unfortunately we will not have another one in this love of Slovenia as corruption. The case that is being addressed today, which we have already considered before the meeting, is a typical example of how politics can help to make corruption manifest in all its enthusiasm or in all its flower. Let it be, for all the speakers have also spoken before me about the history of the Lord Jerovšek; for the second time I ask you, Thank you. [[...]] [[...]] Because everyone's been talking about history and giving their opinions about the SIB bank. The SIB Bank was established in 1990 solely with one goal, that is, an old suit originating from the former SFRJ to enable capital survival and thus to add power to their pre-action. The Part Idea Leader of this is the one who inherited the idea, organisation and staffing of the former SFRJ Joint State, i.e. the United List, which is why, according to my assessment, the United List also bears the ideal guilt, the human resources blame for the SIB Bank and the related assessments. In fact, the SIB is a bank, however you want to move today and talk about how successful the bank was, how it was a bank with which Ljubljana wanted to approach European cities because it had cheap own funding - please, this is more than nonsense. The SIB Bank was established as a "by pass" firm which would financially allow the influence of old suits even further if the structure in the elections changed. You have appointed or appointed Mr Klemenčič, former Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and a member of the Joint List, as Director. Of course, the SIB bank also received quite a lot of political business very soon after its establishment, especially by those ministries which were also controlled by the United List again. The first major deal that came two years after the establishment of this political bank was the so-called long-standing deal that fulfilled the content of the contract between the Federal Republic of Germany and Yugoslavia under the programme of the return of the Germans from Germany financed by the German State. Of course, this programme was essentially signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the German Government. He even allowed a 10-year moratorium on payment. The SIB, as a political bank, gave its client a 7-month deadline or moratorium on payment. So, unlike between ten years and seven months, the funds were kept by the SIB Bank, which, of course, not only by my assessment, according to the National Party's assessment, was here in total contravention of the idea of the basic programme. The Bank of Slovenia has pointed to this and many other harmful facts from the real operation of the SIB Bank several times, but nothing more than warnings. She has never used her legal power to sanction and, of course, if we consider the only task of Banka Slovenije to be a warning, then we will go to the state in which we are. In my opinion, Banka Slovenije, as the most important institution in our country's financial system, should sometimes use sanctions unlike the Slovenian government. Political officials, particularly those on the part of the United List of Social Democrats, have soon found that the bank cannot operate solely on the basis of policy. The contracts and the work until then were based on two intensive tasks. Firstly, they created a large number of non-recoverable loans, and secondly, they concluded problematic contracts. That's why we had to patch up the bank's assets. And where they found the property to patch up holes or deficits, whatever you want to name, in the difference between Indonesian coal, which one of the speakers has already talked about. Of course, this is not just a story of how they did their job in Energy quality. It's a story primarily about how energy users, excuse the expression, "fucked" at a price, nothing else. How Energy didn't know where else to turn money - they would reduce the rates so that people would pay as much as they were actually energy consumers. But of course, it wasn't interested in anyone at the time, the politics did its thing, the officials of the United List did their thing. Ten billion tolars were linked to the SIB bank, which is not difficult in view of the current positions of officials of the United Nations. And here, according to my assessment, the story of buying up connected persons and showing corruption in all its excess. The story includes or includes the Ljubljana Mayor, the Director of Gorenje in Ljubljana Ivan Viteznik, the Director of the Edward Owen Housing Fund, the banker of the previous regime and one of the advisors of Nova Ljubljanska Banka Niko Kavčič and the other tenants of the buyout made a positive opinion with the help of two houses of the ITEO Alphabet audit houses and KBMG. Of course, the procurators Mile Šetinc, Igor Pogačar and Miro Senica, who were all paid in the amount of several million Slovenian tolars, helped to give a legal view of the functioning of the SIB, which he carried in his content: everything is great and everything is fine. The sale of SIB securities or shares, which are only linked to Triglav insurers, is likely to be clear in this country now - applied to more than 120 million SIT only through the sale of shares. The sale took place exclusively through connected persons, which we have found to be not difficult in Slovenia, and what we have found is that the government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling coalition always and strictly rewards connected persons. What they're trying to avoid in other countries, you're trying to reward us in every way. And when it comes to connected persons, when it comes to members of the board, let Triglav Milan Tomaževič be the President of the SIB Supervisory Board, who is together with the Director of the Insurance Office Triglav Nado Klemenčič and, of course, also the wife of the director of the SIB bank - as we see, it is exclusively for the holders of two functions - in this case, according to my opinion, in our case for an unlawful intervention. Of course, they set the first time, the price of the stock, and the second time the broker. They chose the Publicum stock exchange house, which obtained over 100 million capital gains and was later prosecuted or compensated, and were rescued from this area by people named Nina Pladez, who is also a supervisor or a member of the SIB bank’s supervisory board and similar matters. I want to tell, and at this point or in this time period, as far as the rules of procedure are concerned, that is 20 minutes, of course I will not have the right time. However, there was another institution, which was the institution of the Ljubljana holding company, which was again in the hands of Mr Toš - we all know where it belongs, if we look at public research and authority over them, and the then member of the Holding Supervisory Board, Mrs Metka Tekavčič, also comes from the women's side of the United List of Social Democrats, where they bear a visible and important, at least they claim, a function and at the same time the wife of today's Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thus, the sale of shares took place smoothly under full control of all elements of sales from A to Z, with the consent of all political officials who count something in that country and that no supervisory authority, therefore, should normally have observed anything under the law on public economic society or in the law of economic society. Then a request came from the Bank of Slovenia for the recapitalisation of a bank of several billion Slovenian tolars, at the moment of course the SIB’s affair was affluent or the moment of the outbreak of the affair. All involved, which was already an early plan, were rushing to sell the bank at this point and thus trying to blur the background. I believe that at that moment, if they had succeeded, their plan would have made a number of people in this Chamber today, especially the United Nations and the Liberal Democrats. The sale of SIB bank starts, one of the speakers in front of me said how the awards were for a member or chairman of the sales commission, Mrs Alenka Žnidaržič Kranjc, to be awarded a cca award for the decision of one single bidder. three million Slovenian tolars. The owner later became Nova Ljubljanska banka and later the so-called 'factor auditing', which is a subsidiary to be properly expressed, both by Factor Bank and again owned by more or less connected persons with the United List, for the first time, by Mr Herman Rigelnik by Autocommercer owned and secondly by Activa, Mr Darko Horvat. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, of course today, stories are unfolding, not in the way they were intended at the beginning, that is, in 1990, when the Bank was exclusively set up to raise capital, to deploy capital and to launch or finance certain persons in advance, but to continue according to my assessment, in error and confusion. First time. Orion, as one of those companies that we are also talking about today and which we should not take separately, had five financial institutions involved in lending and providing guarantees. According to a report received a little earlier by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in response to the request for additional material, Raiffeisen banks, SKB, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Hippo and, of course, SIB Banka, again, SIB Banka and, at this point, we can safely claim that all of these financial partners of Orion knew, for the first time, the lack of authorization to carry out individual financial transactions and, secondly, the basis on which the transactions of this financial institution, called Orion, are based. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or its exclusive and main banking institution, i.e. Banka Slovenije, had already documented the volume of loans in the SIB bank through Pay Consulting and thus half of all consumer credits in the SIB. The fact is, however, that the links between SIB, Orion, the supervisory institutions and the unintentional or intentional inaction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or of these institutions, are particularly clear, insofar as we take into account the seven following facts that have taken place and cannot be rejected today. 1. Lack of and lack of authorisation to carry out certain financial transactions at Orion. 2. Selective treatment of clients, even though my assessment is against the law. 3. Odruski interest. 4. Bianca's contract. 5. The use of borrowers. 6. Borrowing. Seven. Double the apparent claims. Although, according to my assessment, all the elements are given so that in this country we can and should act, of course, this is not an interest, unfortunately, I stress this is not in the interest of the people who run this government. Not all governments, but those who actually run this government. Predicted or acquaintances claim that the story of the SIB bank is only a pebble in the mosaic from the entire plan that it wanted or partly has already started and carried out by that former authority, which is still quite strong in this national council, in Slovenian politics and among Slovenian rich people, this is the privatisation of the Ljubljana holding company, which turns over 100 billion Slovenian tolars annually. In the whole story, i.e. the stories of wealthing individuals, illegal work and political cover, I think it is the most important, political cover, illegal work and wealth of individuals: for the first time, individuals who are more or less close to the functions of the United List of Social Democrats and senior representatives of the former regime. All in pursuit of one single goal, it is to be enriched in an illegal and fast way. Who's to blame? I said, and a few speakers before me said: we all know names, we all know business or we know how the distance works have been carried out, we know connected persons, we know the findings of the Bank of Slovenia, we know the inactive state authorities, unfortunately, we also know the connected persons, we know that we have legislation, we know that we have institutions, but we know that these institutions do not work. But we even know the victims. This is, in my opinion, the first and basic phase of the imprudent crowd of citizens of Ljubljana and other energy users who had to not only pay for the 10 billion funds that Energy has received and who did not know what to do with them. Therefore, if I take into account the opinion or position of the Liberal Democracy, they have been placed somewhere and triggered by a green wave, and, on the other hand, the injured are mainly clients who, or who should know, will be left behind by the State institutions, unfortunately in our country, are not those institutions which, on their own or on the basis of law, care for the protection of the rule of law within our country. In short, they trusted institutions for which the State should directly or indirectly monitor or monitor their actions under law and should act if the State, with its institutions, found that it would be illegal to do so. But, of course, there is no action in our country, which is why this country is promised to many; therefore it is so nice to live in it for those who are either capital or politically close to us will be in the Liberal Democracy or the United List. Today, too, many will try to bring the blame exclusively to bad legislation during further discussions. According to my assessment, bad legislation is in a smaller segment. As a rule, it's a human factor. I personally estimate that we also have enough effective legislation in the Republic of Slovenia to prevent such doing not only in previous affairs, but only if we wanted to. And I'm sure you don't want to do that. You don't want to stop this kind of corruption or affair. At the Anti-Corruption Office, they claim that it is possible to confiscate acquired property already in the pre-trial procedure and thereby protect the claims of the injured; that it is possible to seize, quote, yachts, real estate; that it is possible to obtain a court permit for these proceedings; that we have competent authorities, namely the prosecution, the police and everything else - but that no one is using it. And it makes sense to ask why no one uses it - because it's not intended. However, when no one uses what they can and when the complete passivity of the Slovenian government or institutions is demonstrated, it is reasonable to point out how other countries act in similar matters - and I will indicate in a timely manner - in similar cases. In Italy - the speaker in front of me told the Parmalata case, I will only supplement it in the part that you will be able, if you do not know yet, but above all that the Slovenian public will see how much confidence there is in the Slovenian government and the ability of other governments in Europe to respond to individual issues. On 19.12.2003, an affair broke out. In eight days, 27.12. they declared bankruptcy and shut down the owners. It took them four days for the police to close eight leaders in the company, through Silvestrov's to conduct eight hearings, which led them to have 11 managers in custody in the first half of January. They replaced all the leaders in the company and at the end of the month, on 1 February, the Milan prosecutors extended the investigation, for the first time, to taxation and, secondly, to banks abroad, which is totally incomprehensible to us or to our government and has never served on such measures. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Finally, because I have run out of time for important things, I would only like to give guidance to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We spoke or said that in 1997 criminals or the police met with Orion, when the threats and indications of murder, of tax evasion, of paper adjustment, and you said that we would treat it separately. You know, let me give you a very wise advice: if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already informed the public in 1997 about all this, it would probably have reduced the credibility of such a company and thus the number of clients.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u54	That would be the case if the government tried to work within the unit at least once for a change and knew what one government service was doing, what the other was doing, and helped each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u55	Hey, buddy. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u56	If, of course, the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this was indeed good. I'm afraid it's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Now, after the end of the presentation of the positions of all the parliamentary groups, we will begin with the debate of Members and Members. We have also decided to invite the representative of the Bank of Slovenia to this debate. The vice-governor is with us, and he asked me to give him a word for something before the debate. We now give him that word for these explanations. Mr. Vice Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u58	Nice greetings, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will try to be brief, given that this has already been said and that, of course, in its report last year, the Central Bank has practically given a more detailed explanation. In this place, of course, I can repeat that the Bank of Slovenia insists on the explanations and on the opinions it gave a year ago. I must say, I am personally surprised by the opinion of some Members, who are virtually just one year old, because I personally thought that I had answered all previous meetings of the Finance Committee, one year ago, in fact, these questions that are being raised again today. I have to say, there are some questions that are professionally wrong. Last year I was at major committee meetings, including at closed meetings of the Committee on Finance, where I could also, of course, burn on specific numbers or on specific facts, which, of course, I should not have before the public, I assumed that I had answered these questions satisfactorily, but today again the question which, although one year ago, if memory does not deceive me, Mr. Sponik pointed out around that misdirected billions of tolars and at the end of the year by the New Ljubljana Bank to SIBbanko. Today, from what suddenly occurred, a billion tolars of profits were transferred from the New Ljubljana Bank to the SIB Bank and, of course, the SIB retained its image and result from this title. The claim - if I recall correctly, Mr Janša reiterated it - is completely wrong and wrong with any logic. The fact that there has actually been a mistake, as I have already said and explained to Mr Podobnik last year, is the claim of the New Ljubljana Bank for the SIB for a false invoice amount and, of course, has nothing to do with any revenue effect on the balance sheet of the New Ljubljana Bank or on the balance sheet of the SIB Bank. Moreover, the SIB bank had an even slightly higher tax base from this title because the tax base under the profit tax law, the balance sheet amount, was increased by a billion tolars. So, I will say, this error has nothing to do with it, and this claim is completely unprofessional, that from this title a billion tolars of profits from the New Ljubljana Bank and the SIB Bank have been shed. But like I said, I think I made that point clear last year. Likewise, as regards the functioning of the so-called Committee on the Cooperation of Financial Supervisors, we have explained in a long and broad way how this Commission works last year, and I must say that today's statements by Mr Baiuk about the non-action of this Commission are completely wrong or unrealistic. This committee shall act. It shall meet at least once every three months. We are dealing with very up-to-date matters, but of course all these current matters are confidential, concerning only all three financial supervisors. I'd like to remind you of something in this place, despite the empty hall. You're all talking today, or you've been talking about this SIB affair for a long time. You obviously forget that today all arrows also fly to Banka Slovenije, that this Bank of Slovenia has done nothing or has done little and has done little. You forget that this affair, if we call it that, was initiated by the Bank of Slovenia. It was launched by Banka Slovenije with a request for the recapitalisation of the SIB bank, not mindful of who the current owner of the SIB bank is: whether they are private shareholders, it is a public energy company, anyone. When we discovered, of course, the lack of capital in the SIB, we implemented the measure and requested recapitalisation. Unfortunately, this recapitalisation then, the required recapitalisation, did not materialise. In our opinion, it could be realised because I still claim and I am confident that our professional services and our calculations that the public energy company was strong enough and financially capable not only to buy the bulk of the shares of the SIB bank at the time, but also to recapitalise. I'm sorry, how would you say she got involved, or she got involved in politics? The recapitalisation that was requested from our side floated through the water. We're in a situation like this. There's something else I need to point out. Today was a talk about how many savers lost. You forget that until today, and if everything happens happily to this day, by the end of the liquidation of the SIB bank, none of the savers will lose anything. Neither did any of the SIB bank's savers lose a tolar to date. All applications are regularly serviced, all depositors were paid at the age of their applications. And the thing, I'll say, is going on normally. As far as starting this affair is concerned, I must say that, of course, the Central Bank has always known what is going on at the SIB Bank. We have practically shown our way of action since 1996, or how much, we have also mentioned in the material since last year. I have to say that the death blow, if I put it in plastic terms, could have been done earlier, and, of course, drove the bank into bankruptcy. The reasons for this could probably be found, but I have to tell you the following. According to the Bank of Slovenia Act, which, of course, defines the role of Banka Slovenije, which is also a concern for the stability of the financial system, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, of course, always decides on the advantages or disadvantages of an individual measure when taking measures against an individual bank. If you remember the bankruptcy of the commercial bank Triglav in 1996, when Banka Slovenijepač proposed bankruptcy of this bank, you know, at least those who know a little more about matters or financials, that we had a disturbance in the banking system at the time, and that the so-called domino effect began to occur when banks were virtually shaking because of the bankruptcy of one bank. When we acted against the SIB Bank, of course, we adapted the focus of the measures to these possibilities that, with the start of the bankruptcy of the other bank, I will say, another plasma domino effect in the banking system. I must say that on the other hand, of course, the belief that this bank is not so bad that it could not be properly repaired. I must say that we have been gradually implementing this rehabilitation over a number of years, as is evident from our actions: that we have, of course, pushed the bank into implementing our orders or decisions, and, of course, the entry into the design of appropriate value corrections and the gradual, gradual, more realistic valuation of the credit portfolio. Of course, it works in time. Even that committee, which was possible a year ago, two, can be recognized as a first-class A committee, is not said to be such a quality this committee will also be one year later. Of course, from this title we requested further corrections from SIB. However, through our constant action and constant supervision of the SIB, we tried to rehabilitate the bank practically gradually. I have to say that the matter was doing very well, the SIB had, if you compare it with the banking system, because you also have data in these materials, it had virtually the largest volume of reservations created by the banking system, given the extent of its risky act, so I think the recovery process has gradually succeeded. I must say that when a new buyer appeared, it is said, the takeover of the public energy company was, in our opinion, financially capable and capital enough to take over the SIB bank. I must also point out that we have not seen any legal obstacle that any public undertaking should not buy or acquire a stake in a SIB bank. For the first time, if I just illustrate the practice, which in some neighbouring countries and in Europe we have 100 banks that are owned, I will say, local communities, cities, landscapes and so on. If I only remind myself of some banks owned by individual countries in neighbouring Austria or Italy. I just wanted to say that it's nothing sinful to have banks where shareholders are also important. Last but not least, it was one of such banks, which was in the past up to the recent 100% property of the company that performs the public economic service, the Post Bank of Slovenia, which was 100% owned by Posta Slovenije d.o.o., which performs the public economic service. As I am aware from this title, there has never been any dispute that this is any prohibited activity or that it is any kind of usurpation of power. I have to say, because it was obvious that the Bank of Slovenia did not inform the public, it was also said today that citizens and savers should be informed that they are operating with a risk bank, that we have not informed shareholders or potential shareholders or the later takeover of the public energy company. Once again, it was true skill and the economy was an artificial customer, because it had to be, who had to check what he was buying. The Central Bank is not an intermediary, not a mechanist who will praise or pavilion a commodity and, of course, act as an intermediary between the buyer and the seller. Whoever buys something has to decide for himself what he buys and, of course, he has to see for himself the quality of what he buys. If the investor, of course, had made a so-called careful, financial and legal review before deciding on the purchase transaction, we heard today, this was only partially done, of course, we would have immediately stumbled upon our decisions, the order and the letter to the administration and the supervisory board, which were available to the banks and, of course, with a view to this documentation alone, we could have seen what he was buying. The decision on the sale transaction was, of course, his and Banka Slovenije has no right under the applicable banking law, even a prohibition on disclosure of the data it carries out in the course of its activities is said to be in the control of the banking system. Similarly today, it has been said that we have not protected public interest. When an application for entry into a central bank or to acquire a qualified shareholding of any future shareholder or investor is made by a private entity, be it a public undertaking, be it a public company, be it a public company, be it a State or a local community, are virtually all these applicants, or all the candidates for obtaining a qualifying share in any bank under the same treatment, all are subject to the same rules as defined in the Banking Act and have been more specifically stated today; Article 20 of the Banking Act defines the criteria on which the bank can, of course, take and reject a decision to obtain a qualified share of a particular stakeholder. Whoever buys and what buys is, of course, who buys is the matter of the decision of the central bank to verify the financial capacity of this potential investor. Why? In particular, because, when assessing a financial investor or investor, a qualified, significant owner in a bank, we need to verify, even if this owner is able to support the bank for a longer period of time, if problems arise in that bank. I must say that in 2001, when the public energy company came out of our available data, we assessed the balance sheet and the reports that the public energy company was also able, given its financial surplus, to help SIB even in the event of difficulties. Unfortunately, it turned out differently later, because, as I said, the economic power itself, in our opinion, the public energy company was sufficient, but of course it was not willing for this recapitalisation to be carried out as requested. I have to say that there is still something that bothers me, because you keep telling me that the central bank has not made or made concrete decisions and specific orders, and the letters to the administration and the supervisory board, which, of course, it issues as a control measure in the control of the individual bank. Once again, I would like to remind you that, of course, you are forcing, by reference to Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Banka Slovenija to act unlawfully. The Bank of Slovenia, of course, follows the 59th Article of the Banking Act adopted by this Parliament in 1999, which is also in this part concerning disclosure of data in the central bank. The central bank shall receive, through its supervisory activities in Article 59, a tax ruling to which the central bank may disclose these individual data. Through this, of course, we cannot, if you have changed the banking law in Parliament and in Article 59 we write that we should send our orders, decisions to Parliament through or publish them in the media, of course we will do so. As long as Article 59 of the Banking Act is as it is, of course, we must also act in accordance with it. I would, of course, like to point out that this 59th Article of the Banking Act is also in line with the European Directive and with the rules of the profession that apply mainly in the European supervisory field, it is said, in the area of supervision of financial institutions, where the principle of professional secrecy, or of foreign 'professional secret', applies in particular to the exchange of data between supervisory authorities, among bank supervisors of individual countries. In the absence of this "professional secret" of course, the possibility of our communication or cooperation with foreign supervisors, which I must say, is likely to be undermined. I must say that Mr Bajuk will probably remember - if he remembers me not to be deceived, it was two years ago - when the request for the submission of all the decisions and all the decisions taken by the Slovenian supervisor, especially by the US supervisor, was required in the process against the LBS bank in New York, that we, of course, made these reports and made these findings when we received the consent of a foreign bank supervisor. In this case, the FBI and the New York State Bank Department. However, once the procedure has been defined differently and the exceptions to Article 59 of the Banking Act, as regards the disclosure of this information, we will do so, and until then, of course, this data, the individual data, must not be disclosed. The reason is quite simple. In these orders and decisions, individual data for individual natural persons, for individual legal persons who are not allowed to be disclosed in accordance with our understanding and a very clear directive of Article 59 of the Banking Act, are in the background. I must say that I would not personally experience being persecuted by a court or prosecutor for simply revealing something that I should not, and I am counting on the central bank to adhere strictly to this rule, regardless of whether you refer to Article 152 of the Constitution. I would also like to point out that this is not just the opinion of the central bank, it is also the opinion of the legislature of the National Assembly, which is at the last meeting of the Finance Committee, and today I have also seen in the material, warned that, of course, the National Assembly does not have the right or the ability to obtain these individual data, which is, of course, contrary to both the Bank of Slovenia law and the Bank of Slovenia law. Our rejection of the presentation of individual decisions, of course, is not any misappropriation, but only the respect for this law, which, as I said, this Parliament has adopted and by which we must work. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say, further fates of the SIB bank - why have there been transactions with the New Ljubljana Bank? If you look into the memory a little bit, you'll remember that the central bank demanded recapitalisation. Since this recapitalisation has not been carried out, in the meantime we have obtained the so-called patronage or guarantee statement of the New Ljubljana Bank, because if these patronage or guarantee statements of the New Ljubljana Bank were not available, of course the bank would go bankrupt. However, I must say again that the Bank of Slovenia has requested a new owner, according to Nova Ljubljanska banka, which bought the largest number of shares from the public energy company for the amount already disclosed here, it is clear that, if I recall, for 412 million tolars, we in the central bank have requested that the status of the SIB bank be settled by the end of 2003 at the latest. Therefore, on 29.12. a process of voluntary liquidation of the SIB bank was also initiated. If, of course, this did not happen by 31.12.2003, of course, the central bank should act because of this, because of course we cannot allow a bank to operate and operate in Slovenia that has virtually no capital or has a negative capital adequacy. So I must say that, even as a member of the management of the central bank and at the same time a member of the Bank of Slovenia Council, I do not feel guilty or responsible in any way in the sense that, in any way too weak, too mild or otherwise, I will say, after some political insinuations or political ties, I have not acted against the SIB or that we have not acted against it. Once again, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia has decided not only on the basis of the conclusion of direct control but also, of course, always weighs the consequences that control measures and action against a specific bank can have on the whole banking system. Maybe just a word or two about Orion and similar accidents, if I may put it that way. I must say that I agree with some Members who have debated here that it is essentially some kind of classic money chain in a very sophisticated way. I must say that the personal or belt position of the central bank, because we are very much involved with the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia at the Ministry of the Economy, we believe that it is only that the rule of law should be enforced and matters should be properly sanctioned. However, colleagues in the market inspectorate can be further trained to provide a skilled review of rather complicated transactions or complex contracts. And I also agree with the opinion of some other Members that such contracts should not be seen for themselves, but perhaps in the context or in the context of more transactions. I must say that, by the central bank in this part, we have acted against the SIB in the part where the SIB was exposed to one or another Commissioner. Today, Pay Consulting and Orion were mentioned. We have also acted against these two companies in the control of the SIB. What is more, what specific amounts were involved and what things, of course, I cannot disclose on my own. Obviously, you have already obtained some of our decisions from some other sources, because I see that the facsimiles of our findings or demands appear in the media. I have to say, it's a bit of a surprise, but of course it's a thing -- I'm not the one to judge this case. If any additional words were to be needed, then I would be included in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Governor, for your views and explanations. First, he asked for the floor as Secretary-General. Dr. Bayuk, were you specifically mentioned in the debate? Then you have three minutes to explain. Please, Dr. Bayuk, you have three minutes to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice Governor, you've spoken a lot, but you've said little. In fact, if I were to mark in some way your implementation here today, as far as the views I have presented are concerned, I would say that you have misunderstood your own mistakes. 20. Article 20 of the Banking Act clearly states when Banka Slovenije may refuse to obtain a qualified share if the data it has at its disposal results in - what? In order to ensure that the activities or transactions carried out by the future qualified holder could result in the risk management rules being jeopardised by the operation of the bank. Our point of view is why we estimate that Banka Slovenije was involved in this approval by not rejecting the request for a qualified share because it had data that the SIB was actually exposed to risks that Energy could not only deal with by its means. We well know that Energy has had problems with certain difficulties in its revenues, that it has shown extraordinary income in 2001 only because it sold some of the shares of the Bank's Bank's Bank, and that this was an extraordinary income, that the prices for Energy services were actually regulated, and that there was no way that they could have anticipated that they would still not know how to increase, that there was no expert analysis, since so far no confidential and confidential documents of the Bank of Slovenia have yet been presented to this National Assembly, that any economic analysis would actually be carried out, if even a municipal bank with 1% of the share that it was, could have remained in our area. That this was contrary to the Slovenian government's policy, which you were familiar with, all of these are facts that you did not respond to not then or tonight. The fact is, you knew that energy didn't work freely on the market, that it had regulated prices, those were risks that you couldn't handle. And it actually turned out to be, because then it came to what it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u61	See, a replica is not an instrument of controversy, an instrument of clarification, that is to say, if it has been misunderstood and only in that sense will I give you now the word to explain what your position was incorrect.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u62	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize if I have forgotten what Mr Bayuk has pointed out, I have forgotten to explain. This claim, of course, that the Bank of Slovenia, when considering the role of Energy to obtain a qualified stake in the SIB, did not carry out any analysis or assessment, of course it does not. We wrote to you in the report last year that we have, of course, fully followed the procedure defined in the Banking Act. I think that we are not obliged to propose concrete documents to you if that is the will - or I will say - if we have a legal basis of course, but we will give you a full role where you will see how we have dealt with this role and how we have recalculated the financial capacity of the public energy company and, of course, also check that the public energy company can only decide and that is why it needs the decision of the authorities on which today's speech was - the city council, etc. Our opinion was that, at that time, in that system of management of public enterprises, which were essentially the subsidiary of Holdinga, these public companies could have opted for capital investments themselves, and this is also in accordance with Article 73 of the Public Finance Act, if I recall what they later confirmed, I will also say, the departmental ministry and, of course, the relevant other legal experts. The fact that the decision or consent of the Bank of Slovenia to grant a qualified share to the public energy company in the SIB bank in order to be inconsistent with the government's policy essentially surprises me, Mr Bayuk, because of course the central bank is not an organ in the government, is not obliged to respect any policies of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is, of course, decided on the basis of its criteria and its opinions and its assessments as to who is the appropriate owner of the entry into the SIB bank. In our view, given the relatively small market share or the small capacity of the SIB bank, it is, of course, an additional financial injection, if I may put it in plastic terms. While the programme was really short and the core, which was presented at the same time, was not bad, so to speak, an additional financial source, additional capital by the public company Energetics, but a programme that was not bad: to establish a city bank, which will, of course, also be with the renovating of staff, information and, I will say, the acquisition into business remained public companies or customers in the city of Ljubljana and stimulate the development of small craft or entrepreneurship in Ljubljana, crediting citizens [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And so on. [[...]] The idea was not a bad one, but I must say that, of course, the new administration, which also received our licence, did not realize this idea, and that is why we acted as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u63	Good. The Secretary-General of the Government now has the floor, followed by his colleague Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I think it's right that somehow in the middle, the government has a little answer to the discussion. Of course, I would particularly like to answer Mr Janša, who, unfortunately, is not here, but I think he, I would say, is the most welcome in this debate. Mr Janša simply begins to lie when he lacks arguments and, of course, he has done so much today. First of all, I would say that, as you may recall, I was not relieved because I was abusing the situation, I never abused the situation. On the contrary, as far as my resolution is concerned, I believe that Mr Janša is the main party and the Social Democratic Party has also abused the instruments of the constitutional system, as the Constitutional Court has found in the end. I was intertwined because I defended the constitutional order of this country, something like what is happening to Minister Bohinc today. Since it defends the constitutional order of this country, there is, of course, a criticism, an interpretation, that I do not say that, of course, it is the custom that in this story also shows what threats someone is capable of - namely, threatening people who enforce the rules. I must also say that, of course, I have nothing to do with this story of the SIB bank, with its purchase, indeed, that I once worked in a law firm, but I froze my legal status considerably before this story came to light. However, I have seen from some documentation that in fact, at least in my opinion, this law firm played a relatively positive role, as a legal opinion was issued, where it specifically pointed out that it was necessary before the purchase - in short, it was in some way dissuading the purchase, as far as I can remember. I must also mention, of course, Mr Sibil Svilan, who has also been discredited here as a possible representative of the government, that Mr Janša has obviously made a mistake again, which is probably quite common to him - he has replaced the SIB and the AIDS. I must say that Mr Svilan has never been an official candidate for SID Director. And, of course, what's important. We're not investigators here. Personally, I've never investigated any crimes, no irregularities. I perform my duties as Secretary-General of the Government. The people we are here today, too, we are here in this capacity as representatives of the government. The government has set us up to present to Parliament the activities that it is doing in this regard. And I think that we have been called upon to do so by people, that our powers are right and that we represent the government, at least in the best possible way, today in the National Assembly. Of course, there's something else I can say. In fact, we have assured you that the government will provide some information regarding the findings that have been made today, pointing to the links between the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and some of its officials with the operation of SIB or Orion and Pay Consulting. I can say that I have here a report from the Chief Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which highlights what no one has ever denied. The LDS was a party to Orion almost ten years ago, in the same role as today, let's say conditionally, because I conditionally say so because I think the competent institutions need to find out. But I believe and I'm sure there's a good chance that a lot of people have been defrauded by Orion's business. And in the same situation, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia was in the same position years ago, when, in fact, it took two or three cars near Orion. And as Director Grill says here, this transaction was tax neutral in no way disputed. As for the business of Gregor Golobič and Milet Šetinec, I have assured them that they have never been a party, never been in business with Orion. I am sure that other political parties will be happy, as ours has done, to agree that this information will be published for others as well. And perhaps just a word about how the word is used today. Mr Janša told the Attorney-General that she was not acting or that she was lying, if I understood correctly, about the complaint she had received from the City Council or the Social Democratic Party Council Council Council. If he correctly explained her statements and, as far as I recall her public statements, she was telling the truth. Here is the so-called indictment signed by the MOL City Council, the SDS Council. There's nothing in this complaint but magnetograms. Maybe so much to start with, but later our representatives would answer some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary General. My friend Kangler now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Although it seems a little embarrassing to me that he was now acting on behalf of the Slovenian government and speaking on behalf of the LDS and on his behalf when he justified his role when he was then Minister of the Interior. Mr President, I think the government has been given the floor that the government has had the opportunity to appear before representatives of the parliamentary groups, and I do not know why the Secretary-General has now spoken. However, if the Secretary-General of the Government has already challenged me in such a way that he himself excused his work when he was interviewed in this National Assembly, I was also a member of the Commission of Inquiry in the Vič-Holmec affair, and, Sir Mirko Bandelj, I am very well aware of other things today I have an archive and a file which I have taken over as a top-secret dossier in my cash register, well-protected and locked and much more in this writing. And that's what you forgot to say, that you were relieved of the National Assembly, that you were politically dissolved, and that's when the United List of Social [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u67	Let's stick to the subject matter [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u68	the Democrats voted in favour of your resolution. [[...]] They voted in favour of your resolution, and if you want to talk about some back-up affairs in this National Assembly, I think we can talk about it today, too, if we can do it again. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u69	Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u70	The Secretary-General of the Government called. [[...]] However, I will certainly begin with this, honourable President of Parliament and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am surprised at the composition of government representatives today on this issue. I wouldn't want to stand before this national council, either side or side. I would like to take the floor on the side of parliamentary democracy because, on several occasions in this national assembly, individual political party members forget what parliamentary democracy means and what political responsibility means. And it is certain that the Prime Minister, Mag, has been invited to this meeting. Anton Rop Finance Minister, Mr Dušan Maramor, Governor of Mitja Gaspari Bank and, of course, Vojko Antončič and also Attorney General Zdenka Cerar. I'm surprised the Prime Minister isn't coming to such an important meeting, but Forum 21 is going. I would like to stress that, politics is being done in the National Assembly, not at Forum 21. And I very much regret that the Prime Minister is not here because there is a policy here. Of course, much has been said here, and much has been said. But honourable Members and Members, is it merely a case that Mr. Rigelnik and Mrs. Klemenčičeva were indicted yesterday? Who's the one in this country who's making and giving orders to politicians on the one hand and to the police to file a criminal complaint against these two? If this is the question, at least that is how I understood through the means of public notice that criminal charges were brought against Mr Rigelnik and Mrs Klemenčičov one day before this meeting, I wonder why these complaints were not made in the previous week or in the previous month or year. Why just one day before the meeting of the National Assembly? Who has the power to command and dictate to the police, when and what day of the hour to press criminal charges? Of course, I was very upset myself when one of the representatives of the parliamentary group wanted to blame Bajuk's government for adopting the law. As far as the interest rate is concerned, I would also ask that representative, but he spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group - did the Bajuk government become the director and supervisors there, both at the local level, as far as all the organs of the Ljubljana Municipality are concerned, I think mainly companies owned by the municipality, or so only the SIB of the bank? And if I wanted to challenge some of them, as some of the interlocutors before me have said, which names were directly or indirectly involved with their way of working and the function they performed in the so-called, if I may now, the SIB bank affair. From Vlad Klemenčič, former finance minister, former minister, current Ambassador Jožica Puhar, mentions Mitja Gaspari. Some say it was necessary to involve Ljubljana Mayor Viko Potočnik in this game. And after some feelings, a person might feel that he too could be a victim of this affair, either on her or on any other side. Like Ivan Bitežnik, Edvard Owen, Niko Kavčič, Igor Pogačar, Mile Šetinc, as Senica lawyer, as representatives of Triglav, Milan Tomažič, Nada Klemenčič, Nina Plažem, and you could also list from Andrej Toš to Metka Tekačič, to Nevenka Horvat and also to the Secretary of State, who is present today. What's true and what's not true is another question. However, I am asked here a third question which I would like the Prime Minister to be present in this Chamber. Some of these gentlemen who have been listed today, but I cannot say that they are guilty, I cannot say. But they're involved in an affair. Depending on its function, depending on its affiliation, either the political party. At the same time, there are representatives of the government in some other supervisory bodies, and there is certainly someone in one of the supervisory bodies, which is the possibility, as it sounds, of Parliament's corridors, and also of Ljubljana's streets, that it should be the Secretary of State for Finance to be controlled and covered. On the other hand, the second pillar also works, where strange things happen with certain banks and connections or disconnects of certain insurance companies and so on. Will there also be an affair that individuals from individual politicalally powerful parties have the privilege of privatizing? Or something like that in this affair. Of course, I would not want to, and I am sure that, after my debate, but not because of my debate, because some others have been reported to the debate, the plasma has been removed, on one side of the charges, on the other side of the advocates. In parliamentary democracy it is not done that someone you know has performed a political function in such a way that you defend him with all the cannons as we have received so far. In 1991, if I go back a little bit to history, the interest rate law was introduced into the procedure, then it was adopted by the social and political council, only the assembly of the united work did not accept it. There was a big mistake back then. The error was made because some of the provisions were such that they would prevent such a diversion, which was indirectly linked through the sib bank, including Orion, pa Pay Consulting. It is impossible, honourable Members and Members, that Pay Consulting from the SIB Bank has 1,347 billion consumer credits. This is half of the total consumer credits passed by the SIB bank. Of course, they trusted and credited someone, given that I also know how a person physically and legally can obtain loans from banks, what sort of bailouts you're going through, they had to be called "links and acquaintances" in this matter fair and well-functioning. I am sure that a professional diplomat could also be appointed in this mandate by his fellow Member several times to the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Kacin, Zlęběc, to learn the manners of this National Assembly and also to allow Members to be debated on our behalf. I will also make it possible for him, given that he has been reported for debate and I will not disturb him in the debate. However, if he wants us to have a dialogue, I must say that I am also ready to do so, even with Mr Evilman, it is likely that someone else will also have to write something, so that he can go down with any other Member, not just in dialogue, because it is his practice. But it is true that such disorders caused by a professional diplomat can throw you off track and at your own [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u71	Let's get back to the subject of discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u72	And at your performance, you forget to say the thing you wanted to say. [[...]] I'm sure I'm also interested, but above all, I'm asking the government whether, as far as this SIB and Orion affair is concerned, the government has taken all the measures within its jurisdiction. Did the services in charge do all the work they were supposed to do? I have closely monitored the performances of all government representatives in this National Assembly. At the very least, and at the very least, it was approved for the one I expected him to speak most, Mr. Penk. At least a word, at least a time. I get the feeling that he can't speak frankly and openly in this national assembly. Did the prosecution play a role? Did the police play a role or did the police turn Interpol on and try to obtain data from abroad, in view of the financial transactions that Pay Consulting and Orion made following the report, including the bank and the Ministry of Interior, which we received, in fact, the government, were able to find that some financial transactions went across the border of the Republic of Slovenia and across the ocean? Have we requested foreign security authorities, given that there has been reasonable suspicion that at least the crime has been committed? What's the role of notary? Will notaries themselves see to it that this light that has fallen will find a brighter future through the Notary Chamber? Are the notaries really going to be the ones who, because of one or two notaries lately, will be carrying all the black weight and guilt? When we read the report given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Members of the National Assembly, we can see that some representatives have already been punished for disqualification, I think, by the representatives of Orion. Since it says that we should gain disproportionate wealth for our society, it says, for our society. Reports of extortion and business fraud have been submitted; this means reports on the prosecution, criminal complaints are said to have been filed by the police, as this shows that there should not be all elements of the crime. And for these four reports, I am interested in what happened to these reports at the State's Attorney's Office. Don't they really have all the elements of crime? However, if we think back when one of the defence ministers bought an apartment for the sake of the Ministry of Budget Improperly - the budget went from the Ministry of Defence rather than from the government - the Prime Minister-General Mirko Bandelj well knows how the prosecutor reacted because, on the basis of an article from the media, he requested an investigation against some. And I wouldn't want to go back to history. However, I am sure that the Secretary-General is well aware of the way in which communication between some actors took place at that time. And it is certain that even in this case, when articles appear that indicate that elements of crime exist or that it is reasonable to suspect that an offence has been committed, the prosecution and some other law enforcement authorities will have to react. Finally, given that quite a number of my colleagues have been reported, I would like to stress this. A country that allows some to be rude to citizens and other citizens or people is a bad country. This must be prevented by the State and must not be tolerated by any such act of worship. And the government's report clearly shows how these transactions were conducted by Orion and Pay Consulting, by some natural persons, and by these companies when it comes to dumping and taking interest rates. 36% have an interest rate for renting money to set up or sell on one side of the company that lends you a house, and on the other hand you buy back the house, with the land company already entering this house, and you don't even pay that principal in full as you should. At the tap, you find that this is a 36% interest rate that is much higher than the usual rate, usually between 10% and 15%. And no one will convince me that we can confidently say that it is a strong and strong accusation that is beating our citizens and our citizens and all those who have used this company in any way to obtain credit, a financial injection, or a personal one for their company. And whoever takes advantage of a bad faith, of a worse contractual party, and who also takes advantage of a worse position of such a party, should certainly be responsible for that action. And I hope that the prosecution will do everything and trigger anything that is not yet going to be prosecuted in court. Unfortunately, the truth is that, to this day, if we could say that someone was legally convicted at first instance of such crimes, which came primarily from an affair, I do not know the case as if we are not all the same in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u73	Thank you. Before the next debate, Members and Members, I will give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government because he has the right to enter the debate whenever he wishes and then to Secretary of State Micha Molan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u74	Thank you very much. First, I'd tell Mr. Kangler that I don't know why he's having an argument with me. I didn't object to the decision of the National Assembly in any way. All I said was that I was not relieved of the abuse of the situation, as Ambassador Janš said, because no one had ever accused me of this abuse, nor had anyone found me. Because I was relieved, or the interpolation was put in because I defended constitutional order. That is a fact, and the Constitutional Court has also found that. That's all I said. I don't know, or I don't know what kind of classified documents Mr. Kangler has. There's been a lot of insinuations, a lot of insinuations, and that's how I can't function. I am convinced that this is how our country can no longer function and that the periods of secret documents and official documents have passed. If there are any secret documents, it would be nice to introduce them, so that we can face them and even comment on them or reject them. I don't know what he was hinting at when he was talking about the former Secretary of Defense. I can assure myself that the government has neither given any instructions to the prosecution nor to the police on specific crimes at that time, because this is simply not within the power of the government and the government does not do these things. The government, of course, expects state institutions to respond to and carry out the business imposed on them by the rules, and it also provides them with appropriate systemic frameworks. This is, in some ways, the answer to another insinuation. It would be nice if Mr Kangler would tell us who the representatives of those parties are and who are the parties who have privatised through Orion; I think he would be very helpful in investigating this matter. Otherwise, it is no different than blurring the situation and making further work more difficult for law enforcement authorities. The answer to the question why the Prime Minister is not here today. He could have been. However, after all, the government is better represented here today than ever at any point in the agenda that has been discussed so far at a meeting of the National Assembly if I refuse to ratify key inter-State agreements. The Prime Minister has been very involved in these stories. In particular, I think that his personal contribution is very important in solving the problem of Zbiljska Gaj. And here, too, it has initiated all the key regulations and activities that meet and improve the control system and increase efficiency in a way that will lead to such excesses as this, in the future, in a smaller number. And this is the job of the Prime Minister, not just for every thing that is possibly infertile in some way, he should be sitting here like a sad bench. And you probably don't expect the Prime Minister to come here and say who is to blame and who is not to blame. This is not a government function, it is not a Prime Minister's office, so we have law enforcement, of course, but it's up to the judicial authorities to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u75	Thank you. No, mate Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u76	Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u77	I believe you're the Secretary-General of the Government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u78	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I must provide the Secretary-General with an explanation of the secret documents as he has expressed himself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u79	No, it's not true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u80	Don't look at Mr. Pelevel because he's not the Vice-President of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u81	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u82	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u83	When I figure I need a replica of the replica, I'll give it to you. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u84	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u85	Comrade Kangler, please! Please! That doesn't belong here now!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u86	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u87	I will try to be corrected by everyone and take into account the eligibility of the replica and also the replicas to the replica when this is indeed justified by the Rules of Procedure. Secretary of State Micah Molan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make some clarifications on the statements made by the predecessors on the presentation of the opinions of the groups, namely the issue of fluctuation or lack of adequate staff in the area of economic crime. We agree with this statement and do not need to be looked at in a daily newspaper or in Magu, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy for controlling economic crime in the Republic of Slovenia in the past year, which clearly stems from the fact that it is an exceptional human resources problem in this area. However, I must point out that this is a problem in the Ljubljana police administration area and that the remaining areas of the Republic of Slovenia are not subject to human resources fluctuations in the area of economic crime, which makes it possible to move the staff within the police and to deal with them in a qualitative manner with the most challenging cases of economic crime. This is also the case in recent times, Orion, where a special working group has been established at the level of the General Police Administration. It follows from this strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that appropriate measures have been taken, both to improve the staffing structure and to acquire a more appropriate structure of expertise, the skills of the staff in the field required by the new emerging forms of economic crime. At present, there is a second round of employment, ten criminals have already been employed in the field of economic crime, and at present there is a call for the next ten, so the number of criminals working in this area is also increasing. As the question of wages has been raised that this is one of the basic reasons for leaving or moving from organs to organs and to the economy, I must say that a thorough analysis of the reasons for the departure of criminals from the field of economic crime was made years ago. Wages were not highly classified for these reasons and before them criminals who left the types of police were identified as dissatisfaction with the situation in society. In explanation of this, it is clear that whatever criminals in the field of economic crime do, they are usually large-scale; they are involved in political games and are unprofessional. So, whatever they do and whatever they do, it is usually a public opinion against them, or a lot of manure pours on them, and I must say that in such an environment it is difficult to work or it is difficult to pursue and perform extremely demanding tasks. The next thing I would like to explain is that I am talking about 35 reports of injured persons currently being submitted to the Slovenian police regarding the suspicion of damage to the acquisition of credits in Orion. I am not talking about whether this is a sufficient or insufficient number or what the reason is, nor are we talking about the final number. The final number of cases identified will depend on the extent to which appropriate evidence will be collected to substantiate the existence of an officially prosecuted crime. As far as economic crime is concerned and the human resources structure, which I have not mentioned before, I would say that the current Slovenian police leadership is primarily addressing the problem of the staffing excellence of the Ljubljana police administration and has a lot of understanding for it. We are confident that the reinforcement or appropriate transfer of personnel to Ljubljana will also ensure better human resources excellence, as well as better treatment of crimes in the field of economic crime. Note concerning four marriages to the State's Attorney's Office. So, in this case, the police have not identified any elements of the crime in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code. The reports in question do not in any way mean that the case is closed. No document, any material obtained and used in this process, is retained in the police or excluded and together with a report is withdrawn from the State Prosecutor's Office, which is the master of the procedure and can in any event find additional elements of the crime in the report and initiate further investigation procedures or require the completion of a report from the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u89	Thank you. I give my word for the debate to Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Respected! Today, we have heard several times the demand for the presence of the Prime Minister, and until recently, even the candidates of this meeting, the signatories were not in a larger number than the fingers on one hand. Today, it is very easy for me, in the role of someone who only monitors and evaluates the doing of other sales or purchases of SIBs, to evaluate the events at that time. Mistakes have been made, and the suspicion of criminal services is more than justifiable.The demand for responsibility is certainly on the spot, the efforts of all those who aim to contribute their share in finding the truth I strongly welcome. But not by disqualifying an individual you assign to a particular political party and making it look like a corrupt image as a client you can't trust. This is similar as if, on the basis of an event before the time in the garage and perhaps another Slovenian party was marked with a Slovenian party. It is also remarkable that you are very fond of using the names of people who are not in the hall and cannot defend themselves. Only rarely do they receive your public apology. Several times in this debate, the name of Dr. Metka Tekavčič was mentioned in this Chamber. I wanted to explain, but mainly that part about the transfer of the New Ljubljana Bank to the SIB, it got ahead of me and much more quality was done by the Deputy Governor. I expect, of course, that you will also apologize publicly to Dr. Metka Tekavčič for her words. I cannot agree in this debate that nothing has happened since the sale took place and that there has been a mistake that nothing has happened since then. The competent authorities shall carry out their work and shall carry out it independently and not primarily on the basis of our wishes here in Parliament, but even less on the basis of our instructions. It is true that citizens and citizens, including us, require swift and decisive action by the competent authorities. But not in a quick court of law or without evidence. If this were to apply in practice, i.e. a sentence based solely on rumours, on the basis of an opinion created, one of today's parliamentarians should monitor the meeting from a less appropriate place. Oh, it just doesn't work that way. The procedures are known and must apply to all equally. At the same time, it is essential to recognize that all these procedures take too long, and the feeling of not moving things from a dead point is created in the public interest or unwillingness. But from the very opinion of the government that we have received, it can be seen that this is not the case. The Money Laundering Authority has identified cash transactions where there are grounds to suspect that they are related to the crime of unjustifiable acceptance of gifts. There have also been activities in the field of action covered by the Ministry of the Interior, namely the collection of data on the basis of which criminal complaints have been lodged, which also points to the activities of the Ministry of Justice, specifically the prosecutions, which, of course, cannot provide the information it has during the forecasting process. It is clear from the Government's view that the Anti-Corruption Office has also done its work. There is nothing wrong with requiring Members and Members to convene an extraordinary meeting and asking the government to obtain information directly from coalition parties from a particular area, unless it becomes just a follow-up, in which viewers fear that it will end too quickly. Our basic tasks are certainly to take decisions that have been immersed in laws that prevent unacceptable conduct and, of course, sanction those who do so appropriately - without exception. The tasks and powers of the Government are also clearly defined. The conclusions adopted by the government show who the government can demand or order individual activities and who it can only ask for. The interest of all of us is that the story ends as soon as possible, most likely with a judicial epilogue, but for this, as I have already said, the competent authorities that are not directly subordinated to Parliament. In order to achieve this objective, I will support the conclusions proposed by my mother's working body. Let me conclude by saying that again and again in this House I am surprised at the opposition appearances of representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, as if they had not been in the government since 1996.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u91	My colleague Maja Zupan now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable. Much has already been said and it will be about the SIB and its links, and I would like to highlight only one area in this regard, because I no longer have time for this. With the exploitation of natural persons with elements of deterrence, which is an immoral and repudiated act, by Orion and related companies, I am asked why our citizens are reasonable and responsible for signing clearly harmful contracts with Orion, why does the listed citizen sign a contract for the sale of his house for a third or a quarter of the price or a second contract with which the same house buys out meals and even agrees to lose the house permanently if he misses more than two meals? The answer is simple. Because in our country, a person who does not have a job for indefinite or other regular guaranteed income does not get a loan from any bank. The state pays huge red tape, maintains various institutions and institutions established and operating exclusively for the benefit of citizens. From the point of view of an individual who is in financial distress, all this bureaucracy means only a barrier that prevents him from getting credit on a normal path. That people have used Orion and similar credit opportunities shows that in our financial system, apart from banks that are closed to themselves and the notion of bureaucracy, there are no other forms where an ordinary person could rent a loan where he could agree on an appropriate form of credit and where he could easily manage a credit relationship without unnecessary bureaucracy. In rural areas, this task for farmers and other citizens has been well carried out by food and credit services, up to recently there were 62 in the system of cooperatives that have a long tradition since they were established by farmers 100 years ago in order to be able to equip their property with savings and farm solidarity. In doing so, it should be emphasized that the Kranjska Slovenian Savings and Loan Service, as well as the Sicura and Soča feeding and credit services, which have become famous for their affairs and have left behind a whole range of defrauded savers, have not been of the kind of cooperative HKS. I am convinced that the institutions of control have not fully carried out their tasks. In Prekmurje, too, they had a food and credit service, one of the largest and leading members of the cooperative system, and because of its various interests, it may also wish to destroy the Prekmurje farmer, which they joined the bank a few years ago. Farmers have lost their financial service, which they would still need, especially at the time of their entry into the European Union. They were looking for different ways, and few of them landed right at Orion's. The food and credit services, which for decades collected money in the countryside and then returned it in the form of loans, had to meet all the Bank of Slovenia's requirements by this year, as well as the other banks, among others, to provide relatively large capital. Because in most cases, except in two cases - I think that in the case of Vipave and Tolmina - they have not been able to do so, they have merged, joined together with the food and credit services and some with the regional banks. The Association of Food and Credit Services recently landed under the control of the Slovenian cooperative agricultural bank, which was established in 1990 in order to become a board bank for all HKS. However, the fact is that in Europe such savings have survived because countries such as Spain, Britain and some others have managed to preserve within the European Union the characteristics of nutrition and negotiate in their favour. However, we did not have this hearing, and in the negotiations this area was not exposed at all. However, I do not think only that such forms of nutrition and lending are still necessary, especially for rural development, especially before entering the European Union, because in this way different funds from the European Union would be needed on the shortest route and would be cheaper to reach the user. Such financial services, which raise funds and credit, know the farmer, know the citizen, their work, their income, and make it much easier for him to grant a loan than a bank that in particular requires different guarantees. It is true that interest is not significantly lower than in the bank but is not higher. However, they offer substantial benefits in the insurance of loans. In the financial system, which is not regulated with us, it would be worth considering this side, otherwise we will eliminate what has been good and necessary for centuries, but we will not be able to put in place new opportunities for citizens and citizens who will find themselves in increasingly difficult situations, with supervisory mechanisms and financial regulation being more appropriate and more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u93	Thank you very much, colleague Zupan. I don't see my friend Levich in the hall. That's what Dr. Brace's colleague has to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If today I listen to the debate of government people, if I may say so, and government parties, with the exception of one, one would say something like this: people are guilty of borrowing money from such and such persons. None of the savers will lose anything, we've heard. Of course, there was no talk of shareholders. All of this is the fault of politics, bad legislation, said one of the government Members, is guilty of all this and, of course, the Bajuk government, normally, and certainly a malicious opposition with Janša at the head. On the one hand, there are bankers and illegal lenders who have carried out illegal retail transactions. Here is a government that has taken over guarantees of 10 million German brands, for example, in the above-mentioned cases and has and has its own people in the supervisory councils. And today he says the government is not responsible for everything that's going on. Here's the Ministry of Finance, which says it's banking business, it's business and it can't get involved. Here's the Ministry of the Interior, which only moves when sparrows on the roof are chirping that something's wrong. And to make two complaints - let's see, one complaint against two persons in the 240th article, where there is a forgery or destruction of business documents, and one complaint against one person in the 244th article, where there is an abuse of position and rights in this sense, who is engaged in an economic activity with a view to gaining himself or anyone else's wealth or property damage, exploit the situation and so on. That's what it says, it looks like it's about some contractors in the business, not those who decide things. Here is the prosecution, who obviously did not want to start the procedure in the case of the SIB bank. Yes, but who else believes that the two institutions of the prosecution, called the Ljubljana and the State, get the material and both of them either lose it or throw it away? So you both kind of missed it. I'd like to know what the prosecutors would do if a suspect brought such arguments on the day. I'm sure they wouldn't take it seriously. No prosecutor would believe that. When I look at this prosecutor's story, not only in this case, but also in others, I think of the Italian judge and prosecutor Di Pietro, who was known for his "Clean Hands" action, and I think it would be very useful for us. I can't help but say there's something rotten about the prosecutions in Slovenia. There is also the Anti-Corruption Office, which is trying to do something, but then it somehow draws its findings back so that they are not too burdensome for the authorities. Here is the Bank of Slovenia, which says that everything is fine, that it acted as it should. Here are some auditors who have clearly acted in the function of those who have been ordered by this transaction, so to speak, but not according to the profession. Here are the leading parties in this coalition: Liberal Democracy and the United List, which have been involved in many, not to say, increasingly important financial affairs over the last ten, twelve years. And of course, there is a crowd of injured people who have lost their money or will even lose all their assets. There is also something very obvious: unequal treatment. In the case of Popovic and in such cases the police acted very, very quickly. I remember the case of one of our members in the Vipavska Valley who was punished for supporting me in the election campaign, so at 2:00 a.m., the police came to his discotheque with lights, blocked the road, I don't know, raided me with all kinds of inspections, czech, tax evasion and that sort of thing. And they practically destroyed it. Of course, no one will tell me it was just an accident. In the case of SIB, Orion and not listing all these stories - nothing. The police do not come or arrest the main people, as they do in other countries, as the police do when it comes to small people, for performers; the large-headed police do not take on. And the government is now predicting a change of regulations. A representative of a government party spoke earlier about how bad the laws are and that is why they all came to this. Please! The problem is the implementation of the rules. The problem is the inequality of citizens, the inequality of citizens before the law! The authorities divide the citizens into ours and others. To those she considers to be her own, she is relenting; to all others, she can be very cruel. The authorities say she's not competent. The police are moving slowly. Well, I already told the D.A. that he's obviously working consciously or slowing things down. And why, why is this happening? How come the government isn't more active? How is it that he needs a few years for obvious financial machinations? And how is it, for example, that in the case of so-called deleted persons, she has placed all her authority and influence in order for the matter to take place quickly? It is clear from this that the Government is working for or against those decided by the political summits of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom, when they consider it appropriate. This financial affair is similar to the previous. The pattern repeats all this time of independence. And when today, by the way, DeSUS's representative spoke about social differences as the consequences of wild or, I don't know, what kind of property he didn't say out loud that it was DeSUS that was involved in the government coalition with those who had made wild privatisation and had the most of it themselves. These are, of course, LDS sympathizers and the United List and members. So what happens now? The Prime Minister, however, said that there would be an annulment or that he would demand the nullity of the contract in the case of SIB if it turned out to be, and so on, that I do not repeat all these stories. But at the same time, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the same government, tells us that this is actually business. It is obvious that the end of the story will be the same as it has been in all of the transition stories that we've seen so far. The bosses and their friends will roll in cash, and people will be left empty again. The process will go on for as long as it's going to get old, and everything will go on as it's always been. But I think this is the kind of thing that needs to be done. I ask the government to speed up immediately all the procedures by which the issues of SIB, Orion and the like will come to an end. In the event that there is a danger of an expiry of the matter, I expect the government to be at least as generous to its citizens as to the so-called deleted ones, and will do everything to make the injustices, including to Slovenian citizens, settled back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of his colleague Kavčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u96	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, self-proclaimed prosecutors from the SDS and the NSI. Today’s theme deserves serious substantive consideration. Its clarification is in the interest of all of us, all of us here, and also of the affected Borrowers of Orion. At least it should be in the interest of all of us. As far as LDS is concerned, I again assure you that this is the case. The affairs, including very large ones, are unfortunately an inevitable shadowy companion of economic and political developments throughout the world. A Parmalat affair recently broke out in Italy, which has enormous dimensions, and where a group of people have been dragging for decades all the supervisory institutions in that country. Years ago, however, the world was most shaken by an affair with the bankruptcy of U.S. energy giant Enron, who was about to begin his trial. For more than two years, an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation was under way, and investigators last week, when they filed complaints against leading employees in the company, announced a difficult trial because it was a very complicated and very difficult to prove fraud. On the other hand, Enron was known to be the largest individual financial donor in the election campaign of the current US president. On one occasion, the US presidential election coincides with the Slovenian national and constituency elections and will be held this fall. Why this comparison might be interesting, whether in any way we can compare the United States of America with Slovenia. Is it possible to compare American Democrats with Slovenian Democrats? Is it possible to compare Slovenian and American media? Yes, both countries have political parties and democratic elections. Both countries are facing an affair. In both countries, this is what the media is talking about. And here the resemblance, unfortunately, stops. Unfortunately, because of the level of treatment of affairs and mutuals, nothing gentle treatment of political opponents is significantly different, significantly lower in Slovenia. The American Democrats, who are called liberals, are struggling with temptations that Slovenian Democrats cannot resist. They do not enter the election campaign with the thesis that the U.S. police and the judiciary are corrupt or at least completely incompetent and under the influence of politics, because Bush and Cheney are not yet in custody because of Enron. This may also work for the American Democrats because they know that the media would not buy any flat-rate charges, but that such a valuable attempt to mislead the public would be obvious to them. Especially if it was an eyewitness to the American president. How low and without any argument Slovenian Democrats treat the Slovenian President in our media, for example, you could read in an interview with Ambassador Zammernik in Saturday's Evening. By the way, sometimes Slovenian media seem to be over-Americanised. Maybe they're a little too small sometimes. In recent times, the SDS and NSI have instigated a habit of trying to discredit or even criminalise their political opponents by artificially constructing political backgrounds of various affairs. The real perpetrators don't really care that much. It's just political blood. If they insinuate, they might remind me of a much more reasonable suspicion of involvement in large-scale financial affairs. For half a year the temptations of power were enough to demonstrate the worst, which is what they like, apparently concluding in themselves, to show to others. Just one case, concrete enough not to take too much time, for some truth and for some, especially for whose cause, the right goes to those plaintiffs who so like to call "keep the thief". The case is very interesting, although America and Enron seem to be far away, however, Enron's London business has concluded that our situation is also large in Slovenia. That's when the mag came in. Vitoslav Türk, who was appointed by Jansev's Human Resources Commission of the Bajuk government in autumn 2000, was appointed Director of Eles following the early suspension of the former Director. The fact that it was a party relationship is evidenced by the campaign calling for an extraordinary meeting of the home labour force by members of the SDS after the Türk settlement, which has not happened in other cases. In the short term, Türk’s management, by concluding contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity with Enron or its subsidiaries, according to the analysis, allegedly damaged Eles for a good 2.3 billion tolar, which is why compensation action has also been brought against him. In short, Enron’s Italian representative sold Slovenian electricity for a further sale for 1,500 million tolars cheaper than could be sold directly on the market, while at the same time buying more electricity from Enron’s Austrian representative for 800 million tolars than the market price. Mr. Türk is an experienced electrician, so it is appropriate to rule out the possibility of error [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u97	Let's hold the debate, Comrade Kavčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u98	For law enforcement authorities, however, the question remains open in whose hands, in addition to the American ones, went for ordinary people a huge difference that is approaching the SIB hole, which cannot go beyond the fact that Enron has been proven a corrupt company and it is precisely that the director of Türk has had and still has political botts and protectors in the SDS [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u99	Let's stick to the subject of discussion, Comrade Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u100	Even in this matter, the truth will have to come to the bottom. However, when dealing with the problem of SIB and Orion, I find it difficult to get rid of the feeling that it is a systematic and carefully built system, the fraud of naive borrowers. It's not like the documents show, it's an individual fraud, but it's a system. The main building block of systematic deprivation is the continuation of business with the seemingly purchased part of the property of a naive borrower, it is a tractor, it is a property. According to the available data, we cannot avoid assessing that all convictions are worthy of fraud, in which notaries have also played their part by acts or omissions. However, we must not overlook the fact that the victims themselves played a very active role in Orion’s affairs. I am sure that the legal profession here will prove its capabilities, because the elements of excessive deprivation, the elements of the obstetric interest, are so clear that I think it would be possible to count on the conclusion of the nullity of contracts in most cases. What the state can do, and what it cannot do, of course, must be clearly separated here too. No modern country can truly protect its citizens in every individual case of conscious neglect of personal interests. So if the cigarette box says smoking kills and people smoke, it goes beyond the state's ability to finally solve the problem. If the consequences of excessive alcohol consumption are clear to all, it is impossible to prevent people from having problems with alcohol to the end. But of course the country can and must do much, perhaps more than so far, what matters is what happens to feedback, how the system works, whether the state is able to introduce the necessary adjustments in the system. Among the most important improvements to legislation in order to reduce the possibility of such negative phenomena is the amendment of consumer credit laws. The law in force, as we have heard, was adopted by the Bajuk government on 22 June 2000 and was thus exempt from the mortgage in some way. Of course, the law did not allow controls on mortgage lenders. Of course, it is our task and opportunity in this National Assembly, not to try to take the position of a speedy court or commission of inquiry, but to ask the executive and judicial authorities clearly and loudly to carry out their duties, to find the culprits guilty and to sanction the proven guilt. On this point, the fundamental question is whether we can assess whether the system works. It would be difficult to establish at this stage that the system works perfectly. Perhaps many would not assess the functioning of the system with good results, but after what we have heard and seen in the documents, we could conclude that the system works satisfactorily. And, of course, we have to ask ourselves whether this power, which is now in Slovenia, is responsible for the appearance of barbarians and fraud. It's possible to ask such a question. If so, of course there would be specific features in international comparisons. And when we look wider, this moment is next to Enron, Parmalata here and Barcles and similar cases, we see that they are fighting systematic fraud and fraud all over the world. That's not normal, but it's inevitable. Human creativity, unfortunately, does not just take positive directions. And now to the SIB. Of course, it can be a general after the battle, but the available data suggest that it was an under-thinking decision and a disputed decision-making procedure. Even if it was not formally a matter of public funds, it is in a substantive sense to highlight all the circumstances relating to the purchase and sale of SIB. However, according to the information available so far, the integration of the business between SIB and Pay Consulting and Orion may primarily reflect the low level of business and low level of sales competence of SIB. Furthermore, reports on the integration of Orion and Pay Consulting with the LDS, for example, with Mr Golobic and the Hetinian, have already proved to be completely unfounded. It was more of a design in the sense of Radio Yerevan. The cell phone at Orin paid for the luxury car. Except it wasn't a luxury car, it was a Peugeot mini van, and it wasn't paid by Mobile, it was the LDS, and it wasn't paid for the Dove, it was paid for itself, for client needs. Such structures are, of course, easy and attractive to launch into the public, but they have short legs. In these cases, therefore, it was for purely normal and proper transactions, such as the thousands in Slovenia. Therefore, if the urban Ljubljana authorities, I am talking about the SIB, had any impact on the relationship between the SIB Bank and Orion and Pay Consulting on the other hand, then, as the documents show, this influence was seen mainly through the cancellation of the agreement with Orion and Pay Consulting when it came to the SIB bank to switch ownership. However, it is not possible to avoid an assessment that the purchase of a SIB bank by Ljubljana Energy was wrong. These arguments may also sound nice, but on the side they leave a range of sizes. If we are talking about regional banks, for example, in Bavaria, we must not lose sight of the economic power of some Bavaria for several factors greater than Slovenia, although one is a federal country and Slovenia is a state. Let me get this straight. It is right that the identification and sanctioning of liability continue to take place. The government report shows that the Slovenian institutions operate in a comparable manner to the American institutions in the case of Enron and the Italian institutions in the case of Parmalat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u101	My friend Janš raised his hand, but even though I listened very carefully to my colleague Kavčič, I don't think he mentioned your name. Are you, comrade Kavčič? Did you mention Comrade Jansha? If you are, just help me, because I didn't see it. You are. Please, Comrade Janš, you have the floor to explain. This is not a controversy from the point of view, this is what the debate is about. Just to clarify the wrong point of view, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u102	I hope you'll follow this rule with others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u103	That's what I do with everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u104	Yeah, sure, yeah. As for the fact that Jansev's Human Resources Commission appointed whom, let me say that not then, but today, this Human Resources Commission cannot appoint anyone, especially Director Eles. The former director of Elesa - I think Mr Korošec - was replaced because of the electricity for which the Croats had previously paid 6 pfenings per kilohour, he sold 2 pfenings. And, Mr. Kavčič, maybe you know where that difference went. Türk then sold this power much more expensive. If it was too cheap and there was a difference, I don't know. Surely, however, this difference was smaller than it had been before when your frame was directed by Elektro, and it is said to be today. The only thing that has been proved and is legally binding is that you unlawfully dismissed Mr. Türk and had to take him back to work. If this suit of yours was so justified, it probably wouldn't be necessary. As for the fact that we have made the consumer credit law, which is supposed to be all to blame, I tell you that the Bajuk government took place a few days before this law went forward. It was prepared by Drnovskov's government, the same minister, Mr Senjur, before and after, and he also proposed it. I doubt, however, that this minister, who was a member of the People's Party, who was earlier and later in this government, had something to do with Orion, because if he had, he would have written SLS on the list of car leasings and LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u105	We continue the debate. My friend Barovic is not here, and there is no time for this group. Comrade Podobnik has such a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u106	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to complete my statement when I, on behalf of the Group of Members, found, on the basis of the material I received today, that the Market Inspectorate did not unjustifiably add to the suspicions of the crime service which he himself had identified. Following a warning from the government representative, I did not notice an additional letter in this extensive material, which states that the market inspector of the Republic of Slovenia sent to Banka Slovenije for an assessment of two cases of loan agreements concluded in connection with the suspicion of the criminal offence. Their expert opinion will depend on the further procedure of the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Apology, Market Inspectorate. I would also like to say that we have drafted five amendments or five additional conclusions in the Group of Members, three earlier in my presentation, and two additional ones, all of which are of a substantive nature, and I hope that at least some will receive the support of colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly. I've heard it before, I think Dr. Brace mentioned one of those things that seems very important to me, and I'd like to touch it for a little while. Isn't today's extraordinary meeting and issues also an opportunity to think, as a national assembly, as legislators in the direction of appropriate correction of outdated deadlines? Although we believe that outdated deadlines are a key procedural guarantee for the parties in the process, we believe that it would be appropriate to consider, in the direction of abolishing absolute obsolete deadlines, some public financial legislation from other countries, such as the German Public Tax Code. It follows from the reports submitted by the Government that certain offences have already been obsolete. Or is it also an opportunity to think carefully about relative weariness? We estimate that the relative limitation deadlines represent the necessary procedural guarantee that the legal system must provide to the parties in the proceedings, while at the same time the relative limitation deadlines must be such that it is possible and possible to expect the initiation, execution and completion of the procedure to take account of the legality of such a procedure. If the law enforcement authorities fail to initiate, conduct and complete the procedures themselves during the period of the relative limitation period, it is only appropriate that such acts are relatively outdated. This would also be our specific proposal of a professional nature. I'd like to ask the vice-governor who used to perform and, I would say, convincingly some things explained, Mr. Vice-governor, can you give examples that the public company is the majority owner of the bank? The fact that local communities own savings banks and country banks in Germany does not, in our view, go hand in hand with the ownership of banks by public companies. According to the information we have and our expert group, which has been preparing and dealing with this issue in recent weeks, this is a Slovenian specialty and there is no comparison in Europe. Of course, the ownership of the municipalities, yes, not public enterprises. And another question or conclusion. In the National Assembly, we saw the report of the Institute for Auditing. This recommends that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia complete the Law on Economic Public Services and limit their ability to carry out capital investments, which should remain solely within the competence of the decision-making powers of the local community itself, for example the municipal councils. This position is set out in the audit report of the Institute. I would conclude, however, by finding that only adoption, complementarity or renewal of legislation is insufficient. What matters is the basis on which the legislation is based. The values are important. I've witnessed some, in my opinion, perverse logic. Let's just say that the legislator adopts some law-abiding law. I don't see any legitimate possibility here that in any way they would excuse or seek an alibi for some fraud, exploiting some legal fraud and stepping into this legal void. That's the wrong logic for me. The key logic is that these are ethically rejected acts. And even if it's some kind of legal void, it doesn't mean I'm gonna take advantage of it now. And today's message, which should go to the Slovenian public, is that before the law there is value. Some value goes to the law. And if there were more of this in Slovenian politics and society, today would not be this affair. That's my personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Nigga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Today I also came by to repeat and clarify some of the facts that have already been written or spoken. Like other city councillors and city councillors, I found out about the purchase of the SIB bank from the newspapers. This is said to be because we did not participate in the decision-making and purchase process or did not participate. And I didn't get any information from the city administration. As a matter of fact, I read it in the paper. This time, I have asked myself quite a few well - meaning, lazily, possibly naive questions, especially when I look from today’s point of view. Let me fly them fast, if you'll excuse me. Why did the purchase take place by a public company that had a further loss in the past year? Are not public enterprise funds designed primarily for the development or development of other undertakings within the Holding? I was even more surprised because I knew about the intention of Ljubljana's passenger transport after buying a number of buses that could not be performed without the help of Holding. How did it happen that this year energy had suddenly exceeded liquidity? Is that possible? Does this not mean that the prices of her services have been unrealized, or is there anything else? In what way could a relatively small establishment such as the SIB benefit urban interests? Why was a recapitalisation of SIT 600 million needed immediately after purchase? Unfortunately, today and even then, I did not see a firm point either in law or in the economy by virtue of the rightfulness of the purchase. What made me think that I voted so many times and what my colleagues and colleagues, the city councilors of the Ljubljana Municipality probably said. According to current experts, employees of the city administration and paid lawyers and experts of administrative law, the City Municipality of Ljubljana has ranked and joined the majority of European capitals or regions with significant, mostly majority shares in the various monetary institutions of so-called local or regional banks. We know it best and close to Hippo or Adria banka from Celovac, but of course many banks in Switzerland and other banks are known. It was said that the Ljubljana Municipality would make sure that this bank would become strong, that a successful and respectful regional bank would organise and service the various institutions and funds of the Ljubljana Municipality, with the correct direction of city and city-owned businesses, which would promote the comprehensive development of the region and, above all, implement a housing scheme that is so important for Ljubljanans. At that time, experts quickly advocated and reasoned that with the purchase of Ljubljana, Slovenia is also preparing to enter the European Union, which supports regional monetary institutions. I know that these statements and questions today sound like a farce, but that's what happened. That is why I support the clearance of responsibility for the situation in the SIB and, of course, Orion. But the truth must be seen in the eyes. Here we have a very vivid example of a good idea, a good project going into an affair that's written about and talked about. This fact does not give individuals the right to use on average the names of persons who, unfortunately, can defend themselves, either because they are not present or because they had nothing to do with the SIB case. Therefore, I once again declare here before all of you that the city councilors and city councillors of the Municipality of Ljubljana had nothing to do with the decision to purchase the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My word, Dr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Guests from the government, ladies and gentlemen! It seemed to me today that some of the speeches were from the former assembly and it seems that some of the Polish commissioners have been very busy in the last days, that some of them are very harsh sentences against us and others who disagree with you. Okay, let's start with that bank. This bank started in a scandal and ended in a scandal. As I understand it, this was given to us by the last non-democratic President of the Slovenian government, Mr Shinigoj. And some also noticed this in the emerging Demos, but they wanted to prevent it because they knew where the money was going to go to ensure that former financial officials were provided. But, as I understand it, it didn't work, because, I would say, the victims in Demos have mined this thing. Anyway, this thing didn't get off to a good start, and it didn't end well. At an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 8 April last year, we discussed the essence of the affair with regard to the sale and purchase of SIBs. Now it has become even more clear that this affair has involved the participation of related and politically connected people from the management of banks, insurance companies, public funds and public enterprises. They were all trying to cover up this bank's problems. A natural account of the State which was the owner of those entities. This account has been taken of the fact that this connection has broken with a public energy company which is not state-owned, which is owned by the city of Ljubljana. Since the opposition was able to expose financial abuses, the helm of these links had to disintegrate, and after that meeting the National Assembly requested the Government and the Bank of Slovenia and the competent supervisory authorities to prepare their reports on this matter within the limits of their competence. Some we got, some we didn't get, but some are completely inadequate. Of course, the Orion and Pay Consulting affair has also been discovered in the meantime, which seems to have also cooperated with the SIB and thus helped with the fraud of the borrowers, whom the banks did not want to lend to because of their credit incompetence, by borrowing the basic capital from which Orion then transferred funds with large interest or costs. One wonders what's going to happen to the notary research. Nowhere is it mentioned that whatever was wrong with lawyers who were certainly well paid had to help establish these fraudulent systems. But with us, it seems that this industry is completely protected. Perhaps it has become clear from all that has been said so far that this great financial affair is actually a large snake nest and from this cave the government and government authorities from all three branches of government are trying to extract by proving that they have in all respects acted under our laws. One wonders where the government and all the other authorities were, if they hadn't seen anything and only now realized that something had to be done. When it's done, we'll see. One might wonder why our people have possessed such great manipulation or fraud, and this has already been said. My colleague Majda has indicated well that we have lost all the loans before the war, as well as in other countries, which have been extremely successful. Why this was necessary, we can guess. However, it was necessary to maintain control of large banks and to make it easier to rule. Finally, let me mention that the above-mentioned snake nest has been well fenced with a whole range of laws and national authorities, as I mentioned earlier. Nevertheless, a number of Slovenian citizens have fallen into this cave - and how is that? Almost all authorities have so far stressed that they have followed the laws in their work or not. Of course, it is a typical illusion, because the law is a formal thing, but it also has a content that can be interpreted in different ways, but there was no attempt to do so here. Such conduct, the adoption of laws only formally, without content, is very typical of non-democratic regimes. And that's probably typical of our government and the success story. Perhaps the government should ask about all of this to those of our people who have been cheated in these affairs, and the government has not noticed them at all. What government representatives and other state authorities, of course, all in a row from the two main parties and from any other passenger party, are trying to do in panic, is to do "damage control", that is to say to stop the damage and also to try with an action called "white wash" or to overwhelm a facade as is known throughout the world. Well, yeah, these facades showed great legal, financial, social cracks, and so it took some speed. They promise changes in laws now that great damage has already been done, but in all years nothing has been done. And finally, have you heard anyone as brave advocates of our exclusive ruling elite today say what they intend to do for people who have been deceived at a time when government authorities have been hiding behind laws designed for people and their protection, not for themselves. I hope that we will still experience in this reference to the mandate of the finale of this sad story and that what the government promises will also be done through the correction of laws and better cooperation between the various agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u111	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. A visionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. The cases of SIB banks, Orion, Pay Consulting are a mockery of all those who want and want to live normally in our country, to work and, of course, to respect the rule of law in this country, are examples of how political positions and inefficiency of control and justice and by controlling and managing public money can be pushed into private pockets. These examples are horrifying to all who raise their children, that it is right to live out knowledge, ability, from working that fraud is a sin. Are you surprised that this is all over? Are you surprised that today the value among entrepreneurs is to cheat someone, to cheat him, not to earn their money honestly or fairly? I'm not surprised. Why am I not surprised? Because, unfortunately, all late-complaints, outdated cases, extremely few epilogues of crime, are very encouraging to cheat further. That's what you're saying. It's a systemic error. It's a mistake to make the system ineffective. Who's responsible for this? The epilogue of all these stories, including these systemic mistakes, is, in my opinion, a horror for our future. Unfortunately, I am not as naive as the forerunner, Mrs Crnugljeva, who said that the city councilmen had nothing to buy, that they knew nothing that they trusted counsellors, lawyers. That's their excuse, and we ask them what they've done, because they still have the same counselors. Same people. They're all the same. All those who have led them astray on this path are still there. Nothing happened. The caravan goes on, the fraud continues. The purchase of a SIB bank is my assessment of the attempt to provide financial services to public companies in Ljubljana, which turn to about 100 billion tolars per year. Through the SIB, influential individuals from the LDS and the United Kingdom wanted to ensure as long as possible power, regardless of the elections, regardless of who has the majority in the city council, and regardless of who the mayor is. Of course, they chose a bank that was already set up at the start, which was set up by the party to provide some kind of "by-pass" for the uncertain coming times of the new regime and new authority, and was also appropriate during this period. I also understand the nervousness of Mr Kavčič, who in some way defended and spoke and approved all this work, because his uncle, according to my information, is also the first banker of the previous regime, and the godfather of the Ljubljana Bank, which helped to acquire Mayor Vika Potočnik to purchase this share. These aren't my statements. This is quoted from the media. It's impossible, I can't believe how it's possible, how it's possible to buy a imported story in some normal circumstances. Now I am going down to the period when the purchase of the SIB of the bank has already been made, that of course Nova Ljubljanska banka at a minimum price, 400 million tolars, bought the SIB bank. And then for a while after that, someone buys or sells the same Nova Ljubljanska banka for 2.3 billion to Factor leasing or to the subsidiary of Factor Bank. That's impossible! This is impossible in normal situations or is not impossible if it is not actually a failed directed story, which at some point collapsed, which at some point became too public and controlled and, of course, ended it. Government representatives and even government MPs claim that the authorities are doing everything they can, that it is normal for people to be deceived, that unfortunately it is, that the system is not working and that it is also normal in other countries. More than once today! Unfortunately, I must find that I do not agree with this in the opposition alone. I think that this is exactly the position of Members, too, unfortunately, it is a mystery that, of course, the story continues. To that end, I was also convinced by Mr Penko, who said that the President of the SIB Supervisory Board of the Bank had called the Prime Minister when this President of the Supervisory Board found out that the Office was in charge. This is said to be typical evidence that the whole thing is directed politically, that it is for political purposes and that it is actually intended to establish over the political and financial authorities and the management of key economic services within the country. Typical proof, therefore, that it is a politically staffed and created financial entity, intended to service the ruling policy and, of course, their elites. I can't explain this any different, because the whole story of the SIB shows that, in fact, the complexity of decisions and policies and, last but not least, the important people from the tops of the two ruling, the largest ruling parties are always present and obvious, as all the reports and, last but not least, the debate have been discussed. I think that today's full-time session is in the tone that the issue of inefficiency of control and justice is actually almost programmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Two replicas sparked your debate. First Mr. Kavčič, then Mrs. Montenegro. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u114	I'd like to replicate the part where a respected colleague is a magician. Visjak expressed concern about my alleged nervousness. But there's no anxiety, but thank you for your concern. Regarding the involvement of my respectable uncle, Nik Kavčič, on this subject, I would like to say the following very briefly. I'm proud of his role. He founded the foundations of the Slovenian financial system in the Partisans. This is during the period when some signed a treaty with Hitler against the Slovenian nation and fought as its mercenaries on the other hand. And he continued after the liberation of the construction of the Slovenian financial system. That is why I am proud of his role in the liberation of Slovenia during World War II and in the construction of the Slovenian financial system. As for his obvious role in the SIB, I am aware of his position when he was consulted on this issue, he expressed his personal conviction that Slovenia would necessarily need a state-level development bank, which would also be a financial service for all state institutions and parastatal funds. However, he advised the establishment of a city-sized bank. That's his point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u115	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Nigga, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mr Visiak, in that part of the statement, when he said, in what way and how, even though I stated twice that the city councillors had not decided on the purchase and that we had learned about it from the newspaper. But it is true that the post festivals, paid by lawyers and administrative experts, claimed that this was a good purchase and what the bank could do for us. Please, that's it. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] No, they've been replaced. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u117	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Hours ago, the first-signed motioner of today's session said that it was political roots in the whole matter. And I agree with that. That is why I would like to turn to you in 1994 when the Executive Council in Ljubljana established Holging. He was then chaired by Marjan Vidmar. It was established without the approval of the City Assembly, even though it should be decided on. The partners of the project were representatives of today's political option, which called for this reference. At that time, they had a majority in the city world. The capital value of Holding was high, huge, over 30 billion. At that time, the city was deprived of its constitutional rights to manage public companies. Mr Vidmar had an unlimited mandate over the company, which, as it is said, turned huge sums of money. Let us leave it aside that the congregation was then taken over by the brother of the director of Voka, which is called the public economic enterprise plumbing and sewerage, and the member was also Vidmar’s wife. The directors of public companies were appointed by their own discretion. The high prices of public service companies have not been reduced and the profits have not been diverted to less profitable companies, which is why Holding has any sense of existence. Less profitable were earmarked for subsidies, while profits were kept for themselves. In short, it was a rich, unsupervised fortress that alone set high prices for services. When he became mayor of Ljubljana, Mr Rupel demanded a different business. Above all, the return of money to the city budget, which is logical. Excesses are supposed to serve those items that have been fed and that have served the city’s interests. But they literally closed the door for him, if you remember, they didn't even leave him in front of the cleaning plant, and Holding then, if you remember, declared the biggest by-pass operation and filed a lawsuit for his removal from the registry. The SDS was not in the interest of a transparent business at the time. Contracts with severe financial consequences were peacefully concluded. Indonesia’s coal was overpaid for Ljubljana’s heat, well overpaid. According to my indicative calculations for 9 billion, over a longer period of time. At that time, over 200,000 branded water counters were purchased and the Slovenian newspaper was to be financed with the help of the Power Company. Indonesia’s coal was purchased without a call for tender. The value of the ton was then $50, and later, when the invitation to tender was arranged, the price, not entirely half, was significantly lower than $30 or $35. We know that it has also irrigated and that it has been enriched with added water value. But he was inadequacy. From here we have big sums, and from here we can also start looking for those roots that have been mentioned. Thus, it is estimated that 9 billion tolars of profits have been made. This is almost three times the amount that has been earmarked for the deposit or has been invested in the SIB bank. Later, at the time of the mayorship of Vike Potočnik, it became official that the then leadership of Holding, led by the right parties, was making a rich use of it. In 2001 the parish managed to divide Holding among the Ljubljana municipalities. You know, that's when the social contract came in. Sadly, then, all actions against the so-called Old Holding also withdrew. In spite of many legal positions and opinions, the questions raised by the founding were also very different. The issue of control of the city over Holding or its autonomy or consent to the establishment or distribution was still open and remained later. There were also different legal interpretations of the way in which the decision was made and there were also decisively poor data, as has been said many times today when the surpluses or investments of Energy in SIBs were diverted. But I'm not going to answer all the other problems that were given in prime time because I would spend too much time. I can only say the following. An extraordinary session is, in my opinion, part of a particular scenario. It could also be set up by some other political option when you ask yourself about it and when you look back into the past, where are these 9 billion tolars? I think that the framework of this scenario is certainly to look at the past on the one hand and, on the other hand, also to present swift judgments and flat-rate judgments. Instead, I stress, that the National Assembly is engaged in legislative tasks, especially those which now bind us to Europe, are imposing on us the role of criminals, police officers and judges. The National Assembly is simply not and must not be. We are in a position to discuss whether we have a loophole, including on the basis of such findings as this case offers, and whether this legislation provides opportunities for the exploitation and fraud of people. And if we have it, how can we fix it? Of course, Mr Podobnik said it was not just legislation. The list of legislative changes is long, and it can also take time to list it. It is also a matter of values, I agree, I absolutely agree. But the fact is that these values can also be questioned in places where they should be most maintained and respected. If I apply to the current convictions in the United States of America regarding violations of the serious harassment of minors, precisely in those areas where values are most respected. Disclosure of Slovenia's speculative business is not proud because it bears witness that the legal order is incomplete. Otherwise, it is true whether there is such absolute legal regulation and such a perfect order that greed cannot be overstated. However, it is important, and it has been repeatedly said today, that the possibilities that are at this moment for injured people who are currently recognized are being rectified as soon as possible, but not only morally and morally, but to accelerate all those events that can, and the procedures that can solve those issues in a very short time that can offer the possibility that people who have been misled or uneducated in these frauds will be legally uneducated or educated, damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the wording for the replica as a proposalr to Mr Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u120	In the last time Mrs Shirca served us with the thesis that all Slovenians are victims of Blut und Boden ideology, today, after we first heard that the SIB bank and, above all, Orion is almost to blame for the Bajuk government, we now heard that the SIB is to blame for Marjan Vidmar's bank because he once established Holding. The establishment may have been legally controversial, but this Holding still exists. I wonder why you didn't stop him if he was established legally? The Slovenian Democratic Party in Ljubljana has never had a mayor, it is called executive power, and never the majority in the city council. Never, even when Kovacic was president of the city council, was this not a majority option. And even when Marjan Vidmar was head of Holding, by the way, he had been away from SDS for a long time, for 10 years almost, most of the directors of public companies in Ljubljana from the United List. I can count them if you want. They were the same as before, since 1982 some, the same, even after Holding, were almost the same directors of public companies as most of the United Kingdom. If there was anything wrong there, please investigate, call an extraordinary meeting and so on, not say Vidmar is responsible for the SIB bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u121	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. I believe that anyone today is talking about whether the importance of this extraordinary session is to look at the past or to present the role of swift courts, that such thinking is wrong. Regardless of the position of a Member or a Member in this National Assembly, any exploitation of the situation must be sanctioned and prevented as quickly as possible and in the most appropriate manner. That is why some of you, colleagues and colleagues, I do not understand today. When the first meeting was on the case of SIB Bank, I began my thinking, which I will repeat today. The original sin in Slovenia is and will not allow a representative of the opposition as well as the local world to sit in the presence of the supervisory councils of public companies, public institutions, as long as the government has power, as well as the SDS or the Slovenian People's Party. I believe that from all this forward is the original sin and also the temptation to exploit its influential position. As long as the sky at national or local level is ready to change this direction, we will often face the problems of SIB, Orion and so on. The Authority should also allow for control in the management spheres, whether at national or local level. I literally believe that the problem of SIB and Orion at this time is the biggest problem of our police and also of the state prosecutor's office. First. If we had cases in this country last year when the mayor's banana shells might have been closed to the mayor, then we have a case of billions of frauds in this case, when none of the perpetrators are still responsible. First here at the police station and at the state's attorney's office, then it's only a matter of justice not to move forward. Let me get on with it, notaries. I believe that in the case most exposed to the government report, probably the Notary Chamber has done a left-wing service to its institution and also to its co-workers. According to the Government, the type of findings in which the notary Office of Leprechaun confirmed the signatures in contracts A, notaries of contracts B, produced notary documents that served Orion to obtain credits from foreign banks, as well as the production of a notary document that served Orion to obtain bank guarantees to secure the case of the re-issue of bank guarantees. In this case, the notary knew or knew the contents of Orion’s business. Therefore, it should be possible to draw the client’s attention to the questionability of these contracts. And now the statement made by the vice-president, Mr Nučič, that the party should only ask itself beforehand what kind of contract it would sign. Yes, look, Mr. Nučič. In the case of the SIB bank and the purchase of the claims of the SIB bank by Orion, we did not have to help this party. They were pushed into a hat that was going on and pushed into this circle of signing mutual misleading contracts by one of the parties. The fact is, as long as the responsible institutions here too don't fall in with the ashes and admit that there's been something wrong, I don't think we're going to get far. It is necessary for each to confess the guilt committed in this process. Also on the part of an individual institution. In the case of SIB Bank, excuse me, including colleagues from Banka Slovenije, see, it is known that the SIB Bank was purchased by Energy at the expense of Ljubljana taxpayers, only in the way that they paid the higher energy price of course, in two years, and it collected those 3 billion purchases. There was no good investment here at the beginning. The problem with Slovenian society is that there is a problem of over-relationship, of mutual business. Until those responsible are ready to hold this one, the other, the third chain, which occurs in individual cases, prevents and starts to resolve, then we can have one extraordinary meeting on SIB in 2003, one in 2004, and maybe another, third session in 2005, but also after these meetings nothing will happen, and none of those responsible will still be responsible for the damage that has occurred, of course, in all of these cases. And now perhaps just for the end, because I also want to give Mr Christmas a minute. I think there's only one thing, my colleague Kacin, who performed very nicely on behalf of the Liberal Democracy, in this case, as if the LDS were guilty of nothing. The Minister of Economy, Mrs Petrinova, has been in this office for more than three years. A proposal for amendments to the Consumer Credit Act could already be made on 22 February, even earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. My opinion is that today's session is about a late session. Why do I feel that way? The conclusions submitted by the applicants show that they require certain data and, of course, it is possible to understand from these data that it is also possible for the applicants to resolve all these problems in 2000. At that time, a consumer credit law was proposed and, of course, the Bajuk government could have listened to all these problems and prepared appropriate solutions so that there would be no problems in which there are clearly some families in Slovenia today. The second reason why I think this is a late session is that the work that journalists are expected to do today is largely due to the extraordinary meeting's proponents. Journalists have done a great deal of work, pointed out the problems of the people in this room and, last but not least, at the potential irregularities that can be proven in the proceedings. And, of course, the third reason why it seems to me that this is a late session is that it is precisely those procedures that we are talking about that we can identify from the materials presented that are taking place in the appropriate form and, of course, the width both by the Government, both by the Bank of Slovenia and by the Attorney-General, both by the police, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and, of course, by the Anti-Corruption Office. So from all of these materials we can understand that the procedures are really running, both in the case of the Slovenian investment bank and also in the case of Orion or Pay Consulting. What may, of course, need to be added to these debates, however, is the fact that we can see that there are some obvious ideas with immeasurable widths. And these ideas have certainly also been reflected in the exploitation of overly loose legislation. This is also one of the main reasons why Orion was obviously able to come up with the idea of charging Oderuk's interest. However, if we look at the very purpose of the Slovenian Investment Bank in its history of operation, I think it is also necessary to say that in the period when we lost or the economy actually lost a large part of the market that it once controlled, it was also necessary to consider that there were companies coming in line with the new social arrangements and that had lost not least the markets, so allowing these companies to get as quality and, of course, to help develop their activities as quickly as possible. And if we ask ourselves today what we are trying to do, everyone's wish in all the debates when we talk about the economy is still focused on making the procedures as quickly as possible, that there are as few administrations as possible and that, of course, we are responding as quickly as possible to the needs of the market or the development of the economy. This was certainly followed by the Slovenian Investment Bank, and some companies could certainly confirm that if it were not for this bank, probably Slovenia's bevel would be much, much bigger problems, both in the field of unemployment and the successful development of the economy. Something similar has happened not least in the operation of savings and loans. They also operated on, we can say, a simpler way, more accessible to the commissioners than it is possible to do in large banking systems. And, of course, we have found that there is a kind of too much risk in savings and loans and that there could be serious problems. In spite of all these favourable banking procedures, legislation is likely to solve in time the problems that may arise from these favourable procedures in the area of savings and loans. However, what we can do today, as a Parliament, that this meeting, which I think I repeat, actually happened late and is happening late. It is certainly necessary to follow the Government's decisions, and it is certain that measures must be followed to adopt appropriate legislation, laws that will prevent, in particular, the fact that it will not be possible to charge Oder interest for those borrowers who have clearly come into difficulty and cannot resolve all matters with their own hands, if I say so, or with their own means. I think this could also be one of the most important messages of today's extraordinary session. But all the other procedures, I think they are running in the right way and that they will also lead to solutions, which I hope we will also know in Parliament that we will then spill into new legal solutions that will prevent those irregularities that may be proven in the procedures under way. However, I believe that it is true from all sides, from all these services, which are also present here today, it has also been qualitatively explained that everyone is taking their work very seriously. I am confident that both the current government and Parliament will do this work, as far as they can do in this mandate, in this area will also do very seriously and address those problems that the then ruling suit has obviously failed. I think that in the conclusions tabled by the signatories to the emergency meeting, we should add an eighth decision, in which they would record that they apologize to all the committees who have come into trouble today because of the odručki interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think you've said it twice today, three times, but I'd still like to take advantage of that time. First, I would like to say that those who are troubled by some funds that have been earmarked for the Slovenian newspaper in the past would be right to deal with it with some ethical and moral standards and in doing so recall that after 1945 all the assets were confiscated, and then nothing was ever returned. I heard that last week, and today the problem is around this newspaper. What is more, if all these records appearing in the newspaper, newspapers, the media and the records show that there is an increasing number of damage to citizens and citizens in this country, the opposition does not call for debates and extraordinary meetings, as it is today, then surely this opposition would not have done its job. Of course, you will not be in a position to do it if such criminal acts of injury, corruption are defended and you want to cover it up in some way. So our citizens and citizens have not elected us to this House, and Mr Kacin's debate today in the introduction, although I cannot argue with the views of the parliamentary groups, has been completely depressed in this regard. Something is legally permissible, another is legally possible. Of course, we can be widely philosophical about this, but of course it is impossible to live and there is no great benefit to it. Look, there's SIB, Orion, Zbilski Gaj, Trzin. Today you could read in the newspaper Finance: Residents of BS3 apply. Over a thousand people have found that now that they want to book land rights on the apartments they bought 25 years ago, they find that the company that was building and who had once concluded contracts with it - it is Gipos - sold these land to a gentleman named Bojan Gjura two years ago. And what happened? The tax administration has confirmed such contracts. She did some legal work. And that's 17,000 square meters he bought for 35 million Slovenian tolars. The tax administration also directed 700,000 to real estate taxes in this business. So it's a state institution that's helped with some totally illegal legal business. And again, there's a new affair. Thousands or more people, I don't know how many apartments this is - newspapers are going to call about it - and it's definitely one of the new injuries. It is true that in court this will be cleared up, resolved, but why is this necessary? And if our extraordinary session today has at least contributed little to the fact that the ministries, the government will push institutions that need to prevent such things and the like, then, of course, we have done some work today and this time has not been thrown away. Nor is it a session, as Mrs Shirca has said. Well, that's not it. We in the opposition have to do this, and I will also hand over one of the contracts that have been brought to me today, to Mr Bandl, the Secretary of State, when he comes back, and they are concerned about what will happen to their apartment. They have contracts that they have concluded and today they find that the land owner is a gentleman who lives somewhere in Florida, if that's true of the data they write here. Here today we could also hear, I don't know, what often happens in our changed value system that we have replaced the word "place" with the word "found". Otherwise, I can't understand the explanation, if, because in the consumer credit law, there is a legal void that, as they say, the Bajuk government is to blame, even though in the month that law was passed, it took place, and even though we all know that it is not the government that adopts laws, but the parliament, well, it may be your right to think so, but some void cannot mean that the government is to blame for the damage, theft and so on. These thieves simply need to be punished even if there was no legal article in the law to prevent abuse. And to apologize for the fact that the marriage is bad, that someone has done it, is simply not going to work, and that is not fair, especially if we know that these contracts were confirmed by notaries. That the notaries actually approved and that the people who made these credit transactions somehow relied on the notaries to prevent it in good faith. What worries me even more than all of this is that with these loans Orion focused mainly on one part of the rural population. This indicates the currently extremely poor situation in Slovenian agriculture, shows that people do not have the money and that this is why they owe themselves in such a risky way. And one more thing. We are here today, this month we are starting a thorough debate on tax reform. We all say that it is necessary to relieve work and that the social rights we have introduced in this country must be preserved. I ask you, my fellow Members, how will we do this if we do not prevent all these abuses and all these great unjustifiable concessions from certain individuals who are at the expense of others. One more thing, I'm running out of time, I'd like to warn you. How will we achieve this if we do not prevent such matters as Sunday Sunday’s Sunday’s Sunday newspaper and today, public sector salaries are published in the newspaper, where, say, the director of the health service, Koper’s health care earns over 3 million gross. And the whole list, the entire list of health homes throughout Slovenia, is where directors have a strong over one million and a half gross personal income. However, Minister Keber is offering us a White Paper to introduce some financial reform at the Ministry of Health, with which to acquire new funds, greater funds, investment and more rights for our citizens and citizens. I have to stop because I'm running out of time. Of course, we will not simply resolve this matter. I think the best solution to this problem would be if, in the fall, people were to change this political power of ours, because you're obviously a party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u127	Please, you're done. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u128	I'll stop right now. [[...]] That you are parties to the ruling coalition so far involved in this event, so far connected with all these actors that you simply cannot solve this problem. There's only one way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u130	with which this can actually be done. [[...]] Thank you so much and I'm sorry I've been out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u131	I invite Mr. Sušnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. A well-respected choir. Interestingly, it is not just by chance that in the reports on Orion, Pay Consulting in connection with the SIB bank, numerous businesses with farms, Slovenian farmers, especially the number of businesses with premurje farmers, stand out. It is a cruel fact that Orion and Pay Consulting, in conjunction with the SIB, used gravely, pretentiously and uncompromisingly, aware of the complete absence of control by the authorised state institutions, those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who needed money and credit were not able to do so. However, the debate under way should answer and determine why the largest number of farmers between Orion and Pay Consulting’s customers are. Above all, Premur farmers, which clearly shows that credit is the most incompetent of all farms. This is no wonder, it just confirms the difficult situation in the field of agriculture and demonstrates and, in the gravest form, exposes the consequences of poor and inconvenient agricultural policy, the poor situation in the field of agriculture and farm distress. The continuous decline and deterioration of the economic situation of Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmer, which is reflected in the daily decline of more than ten farms, in non-pregnantness and no exit in the field of agriculture, was also noted by quasi-capital financiers from Orion and Pay Consulting, who, in cooperation with the SIB Bank and with the assistance of notaries, continued and completed their scavenger business and sealed the fate of many Slovenian farms. It is interesting to note, however, that this transaction took place with the assistance of food and credit services, which have peacefully allowed the seizure of farmers' funds in their accounts in the event of a two-month delay in the payment of meals. It is absolutely amazing that the complex financial transactions and frauds of Orion and Pay Consulting were even possible. It is incredible the imagination and innovation of the players of these dirty frauds, who have made good use of the absence of state institutions, who should step on their fingers, which should or should be liable to the already impoverished borrowers - here I think mainly farmers - to protect from frauds of such calibre. How else is it possible that the recipient of this money will be able to repay the loan for the 5 million tolars received? I think these numbers are worth considering. As a result of the fraud, the party actually lost the property sold to Orion and entered into it as the owner of this property, and this property was set aside by Orion as a guarantee to rent a loan, for example, mostly with the SIB. There have also been cases of completely unfair and highly sanctioned delays in the payment of two instalments by Orion and the withdrawal of the contract, with Orion or Pay Consulting as the party, and once again I stress that there have been large-scale farmers among these parties, which is particularly sad and which will have long-term consequences for the development of agriculture and rural areas - that this party has lost everything at the moment. He's no longer the owner of the property, he's lost all the money he's paid, he's got to pay Orion 28% of his purchase, he's got to pay all the damage he's made up. All of this was done by a cunning, thoughtful, aware of the difficult situation, aware of the hopeless position of the Slovenian, Premur farmer, so that she did not know what and why he was signing. There are also concerns and there is a high probability of overreach, counterfeiting and embezzlement of documents, and all of this has also happened with the presence and knowledge of notaries who bear a large part of the responsibility for these pigs. It is absolutely amazing that the absence of state institutions is a reflection of the incompetence and ignorance of the competent staff. Therefore, it is only logical to look for the causes of such acts in political solidarity for these heinous acts and procedures. It raises the question of what they did or did not do with the Ministry of Agriculture with all institutions, so as not to protect farmers and farms from fraud and decay. It also raises the question of what is the role of the court and of the executioners. Here I am primarily referring to the Court of Murska Sobota, which, inexcusably and conscientiously, carried out the rubble on the basis of disputed and fraudulent contracts and documents, which were probably also falsified. After all, I think that I am deeply convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, should prepare a programme of measures, of course if they still care about the fate of the Slovenian farmer, prepare measures, they should prepare measures to help and rehabilitate those farms that were caught in the trap of Orion and Pay Consulting. Only then will it be possible to resolve quite a few 100 farms, which are, according to our data, due to the immoderate implementation of disputed credit transactions at the brink of collapse. Unacceptable and sad. That's pretty much all you can say about this shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u133	The word is given to Joža Ašić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u134	Thank you and a good evening all together. At first I was asked, colleague Kavčič asked me because he did not get the opportunity to replicate Mr. Janš's replica, which he also used in some way past the Rules of Procedure, and turned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u135	It's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u136	and turned the debate on electricity trade in a completely different direction. [[...]] That's how he knows. The point that Mr Kavčič wanted to say is that there was a speech in the case of electricity trade between Enron and other companies. The trade with Croatia did not have any intermediaries. This was a matter of mediation and billions of large differences in prices that have been achieved, and which can also be suspected of ending in which of the Botrian pockets, much of which is already being discussed today. Otherwise, it is true that there are many lumparia in Slovenia, and that there are many that are not explored, which are not discovered to be long-lasting procedures, so that they do not finish. This really upsets the public, and we are rightly concerned about all of this. That's not a good situation. If today's debate in the National Assembly helps to untangle the most complex cases more quickly, this time will not be wasted. Rapid disclosure and punishment of the lumpari is the best prevention. We can rightly conclude that the failure to disclose and punish cases that have been revealed is also encouraging for future rascals and villains. Today's proponents have said that there is chaos and there is no political will to solve some cases. In a number of cases, that may be true. In my personal opinion, this chaos has actually been going on for a long time and that the real mother of chaos is an undiscovered or unexplored arms trade affair, some others may as well. Mother of all affairs and mother of chaos. And, of course, we could start from here what is unexplored or silenced in Slovenia. In view of the fact that my colleagues in the opposition ranks are laughing at me, I will say that it has been three years or more since the media reported that complaints against some representatives of the Ministry of Economy have been filed at the time of the Bajuk government's purchase of computers. Anybody else remember that? It was about computers, it was a big difference in prices offered, it was about buying without a call, there were complaints, so it was written in the media, but we don't know if anything happened or not. If we are to list what is not being studied today, then more cases are needed than the one we are constantly talking about today. Today's debate in the National Assembly could also, in my opinion, be called almost a political process in which, in particular, the LDS, ZDLS, including DeSUS were already present, well, the People's Party has somehow brought it forward happily in this coalition story always and in any case. They're lucky, but we don't. At least that is how the introduction even tried to condemn and accuse the Ljubljana City Council of not having a review and being responsible for the financial situation in Holding, which is a public company. And who? Look, fellas, you're mayors here, because you know that the municipal council can't really be responsible for the financial situation in the company that it owns. It is known who is responsible, leadership, even oversight, but certainly not the congregation council or the city council. How to get this stupidity is really not clear to me. We, for example, had an affair in Brežica before a recent public school, where the suspected and informed school principal, and neither the mayor nor the municipal council, had fallen even to the suspicion that any of these structures were guilty of anything, even though this principal had even run for office on one of the lists. Not to be specific, but you can think about which one. In the case of Orion, no one has told another truth today. I was approached by a representative of the peasant union, and he wanted to talk to me about the agri-land chamber as well as Orion. He assured me that all the cases he knew were in all cases completely credit-deprived people who could not get credit in any bank or tolar because they already had everything in charge of mortgages and similar matters. This means that someone really took advantage of the situation of these people, but despite warnings from the same union, they also decided on such matters. And how are we supposed to feel guilty here? We can't. And what should the National Assembly do about it? He can't blame anyone. I expect that we will be able to adopt some laws and amend some of the rules to make it more difficult to do what it is. But there's no law that can't be broken. We can write a hundred times that the limit is 100 kilometers per hour, and we drive 150 an hour. If they don't catch you, they won't catch you. And there's a kind of other thing, and it's all prescribed, and it's well prescribed. We can't say we have a bad marriage. In this case, of course, it is necessary to clarify the matter, to determine whether it is possible for those poor people who have naively inherited the promises and opportunities offered to them and to compensate them in some way, if possible. I would, of course, conclude with the idea that we will really do a lot today if we stop accusing ourselves and if we jointly agree on what those most urgent measures are, how will we all collectively prevent the recurrence of such and different situations from occurring in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u137	May I have Leopold Grošlja's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, I was once again taught that the police as a specialised and professional institution to detect social irregularities first require that they have reasonable suspicion of anything before any action is taken. Today's performance of some gentlemen from the opposition, however, expresses the desire for political officials to carry out also investigative and repressive actions, as usual in dictatorships. Notwithstanding the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was very precise and defined this attitude towards the Ljubljana municipality, it was made very clear that, as an authority of local self-government, it is a self-sustaining institution within the framework of the constitutional autonomy of self-government loyal communities and in accordance with the law governing local self-government. Therefore, the National Assembly of the City Council cannot propose a direct discharge of the holders of public functions, which it calls them. That is why, of course, today, I am asked the question: How wrong or how right it was to accuse some councillors of the municipal councils who wanted to be informed of something that might have been an affair or, of course, the fact that it was a bank failure. I am also asking the question that today, when I have raised some questions, will I not be accused of work and of today's vote on several occasions myself? Let me also ask a slightly different question: Do the parties who have taken the initiative to convene the extraordinary meeting want to do everything, regardless of the consequences, only to complete the blockade of the part of the national assembly, as if they were in a state of emergency. Showing such a condition is still harmful to all of us. I firmly believe that the control system required and permitted by the rules in force in accordance with these rules and that the relevant state institutions have dealt with the issue of irregularities related to Orion’s operations before they have obtained a wider media response. As before, in accordance with their competences, the competent national authorities will continue to work intensively in determining irregularities and sanctioning responsibilities. This gives me internal reconciliation. External reconciliation is probably even a little easier. [[End warning sign]] - I conclude - because today I have heard and seen so many burlesque of individual performers that I have to revive some. That's another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The material we received today contains, among other things, a "Guide for the Implementation of the Agreement of 5 November 1992". This government paper states that the interest rate on the loans employed consists of a rebalancing rate and an annual inflation rate reduced by 15%. What the government has written - and I have some of these lending contracts ahead of me - does not say in any article that the annual rate of inflation is reduced by 15%. This means that what the government has written here is not true in a contract signed on behalf of the Government by the Slovenian Investment Bank. Then it goes on to say, "Financing accompanying measures." He says: "In order to support the establishment of private enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia, the economic development of Slovenia has been given by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, as part of the agreement, among other things..." She said she sent a consulting expert under the Slovenian-German return programme for 24 months and took over his expenses. It also financed the necessary literature and personal vehicle for this sent expert. Well, it also says that the government made available, i.e. the German Government, 750,000 German brands to finance economic studies and other research, educational and advisory measures and guarantees for returnees to facilitate the implementation of the agreement, and by the end of 1995 it had been continuously installed to better coordinate between the two banks, i.e. in Slovenia, the representative of DTA, Count von Petenberg, who had been on the ground all the time, checked and supervised the implementation of the agreement. As this progressed, it is evident from some of the letters written by the injured, those who received these loans. The letter, also addressed to President Borut Pahor, says that the interest rate was 6% plus TOM, the repayment period of 8 years, the moratorium of 2 months. For illustration only, I can illustrate that under such conditions there was a monthly meal of about 5,000 German marks. And the following: given the high burden on projects that have not yet come to life, in which we have already invested all our own resources, the savings in financial resources, which were inadequately higher than domestic loans, have become a major problem of how to repay credits. For this reason, many backgrounds have experienced complete financial breakdowns and personal tragedies. Among other things, these letters also say: Just before we are approved, Mr Palčič from the Slovenian Investment Bank calls us, says they will not be able to grant credit because there is no investment plan. But he can do that, and it costs 75,000 tolars. This was in 1995 1,000 marks. He came and picked up some statistics and then two weeks later they got an approved loan of 180,000 marks. That was August. In November, however, Mr Palčič calls us again on the phone and says that something is coming around that he is still related to the lady. Of course, the lady did not understand this at first and then explained to her that they were related because he had arranged the loan or allowed them to receive it. The lady told him she'd pay if he put out the bill. But he claimed that so far everyone has paid and no one has resisted, just as this lady has. The question is also raised as to what the German government and what Mr Pletenberg was actually doing here, if it says in the government's report that he was monitoring how these things were taking place on the ground and that therefore 750,000 German Marks were in use for professional assistance and so on, if these borrowers did not feel or have paid specifically for such services. Not to mention the specific contract I mentioned in 1995, the loan of 5 million 731,000 or 70,000 marks at the time, is based on credit cards made on the bank, credit card statements issued on 10.12.2002: on 6 March, the lady or gentleman received a credit of 70 000 German marks, or 5 million 737 thousand. By contract, such as, six years, six months of moratorium on 31 March 2001, this gentleman has already paid the sum in good value for the 14 million 959 thousand. In short, almost 15 million. The balance, it means to pay, was a little over three million, a total of 18 million dollars, and a few for five million, almost six million, three times as many. If we compare these figures with the same calculation under the same conditions, with a calculation from one Slovenian state bank, from the same year, from 1995 until the end of March 2001, we get the following data, colleagues and colleagues. For 70,000 marks, with the same interest rate, the principal is repaid around 972 and the initial interest with 347 marks, and after the 72th instalment, i.e. after six years, the same party would have paid off on one of the Slovenian state banks a loan, not on the SIB, in which the German government and the Slovenian government, after 10 million capital marks, would have paid for the 5 million 700 and some, with interest and capital totaling 7 million 789 thousand SITs, or instead of 70 000 marks 82 thousand marks. That would be 10 million today. In fact, it means that through a favourable loan, which was made by the two governments, they made an agreement and was also accepted in the National Assembly, that through this SIB the borrower paid twice as much as he would have paid through a normal bank loan. The comfort was such that something, unfortunately, lost these people, suffered such tragedies that, in addition to the values that some have spoken of, lost their lives, lost all their invested 10, 20 or more years of work and effort abroad. All the capital they had was thus lost. And where is the basis for these things actually happening? As one of the colleagues had previously said, that the original sin in one of the other affairs is certainly an original sin in economic crime, and so-called judicial and political corruption in 1994, when Mr Šubic did not write a nine-month sentence when politics changed the criminal code and the law on criminal proceedings and those who stole as shit were convicted, but never one hour passed away. Here was the basis, here was an excellent nest for the front and, of course, this has happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Lavrinco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u142	Madam Vice President, if you will calm the Evil One down. Mr Pukšič has performed, if you allow, and this is not counted down in the name or in the place of Mr Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u143	It's counting down. Quick to the word, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u144	Well, then I'll get to the bottom of this. First of all, I will say that it has already been warned today, but no one is actually sticking to this and I probably will not have to find out what the objective options are in the national assembly. The business options I think are small, especially small because some would like to do the work of the police, the prosecution and, of course, the courts. Well, that's a first. Secondly, I will say that in the introductory words of Dr. Bayuk I first felt and naively thought, but today it will, but today it will indeed be, but as soon as my colleague Janš stepped down on the speaker stage, I gave up. Why? How Janša will explain corruption if, in fact, it is commonly known that all these years he has not been able to explain where he has put the millions of dollars he has personally received, that I do not say that he has even prevented the state prosecutor from carrying out the procedures, at least these initial procedures. Hope has kind of plummeted. Of course, it broke out after or after I saw the dog's paw praying, when the master of deception and innuendo began to talk about what we accepted and what we didn't yesterday. Now, I'm going to read what was written yesterday, listen, even POP TV posted this, and I'm going to say it's a disgrace to the press and editors who miss it. See what they have suggested: The Special Prosecutor's Unit for Organised Crime of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the competent district courts, should immediately institute a forecasting procedure for the suspicion of organised crime. We should now say what it is and who has to do, but at the same time we speak and know that we have an independent branch of power, these are the courts and so on. Of course, because they did it because they ordered prosecutors to do what they had to do and what they didn't do, they judge by themselves and they push us to do it. Secondly, how did they use this nefariousness of journalists in vain or purposely, so to speak, who did not understand what was at stake when we did not adopt the 12th decision. I'll tell you what this is about. See, in the 12th decision they said and then they added it: The Director of the Tax Administration should submit by 31 March an official report on the review of all financial transactions and other business between Orion and Pay Consulting and the LDS political party to its former Secretary General Gregor Golubič, former president of the LDS Council, Milet Šetinec. All they said on TV was that we didn't even want to support it. Look why we didn't want to. For this reason, since it has already been stated yesterday by the Director of the Tax Administration that the powers and powers of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are laid down by law, any derogation from this rule, in particular in terms of the verification of taxable persons according to their political affiliation, would constitute a derogation from the fundamental principle of equal treatment of taxable persons. That's why we were against it. Not because the name Greg Golobič is mentioned, etc., but the master of deception and instigation, of course, does so by even, for I say, unwary journalists then bring news to the world, as if the LDS were now afraid of something. And if I move on. We have undeniably found that legislation in this area is not the best. It is a great pleasure for me to listen to my colleagues from the SLS, who for ten years have been "puffing" the Justice Department, but have so far not managed through their minister to enforce these views that notariat, as we now have, is not as good. I'll tell you why he's not good. At a time when notariat was established in the world, people were illiterate. So it was necessary to have someone who could read, the one who was selling the cow, and the one who was buying the cow. Now we don't have illiterates in a literal sense. But we're all legally illiterate, even as I am, for example, a university lawyer, I'm not a specialist in particular areas. So, of course, they need to be tied up to explain to people what kind of business they're going into. But do not be naive or be naive. What do I think? As long as there's greed in the world, on the one hand, and naivety on the other hand, stories like Orion, as we've already had Catch the Cash, Pyramid, etc. And I wonder, of course, why wasn't there an extraordinary session at the time? Why? Because there was no time for a political show back then, there was no time before the elections and, of course, it was not in a political sense worth it. Now it's worth it. And in this way, I think the poor people Orion has drawn so much that they're actually threatened by a bumpkin and I don't know what it's all about, being pulled away from the policies she's used to pick up political points. Today it's been said several times, you've chosen Social Democrats or SDS, and you've won, and you've done everything, and it's all going to work out, and so on. Why won't he? Because today it was said - listen to this - today it was said that those who did this should be punished. No one thought that the basic civilisational acquisition was that something was criminal only if it was further described as a crime. So, that's what I'm asking you, Juice, be quiet! [[...]] That's what you said. And that is why, I will tell you, it is not possible to follow, even so on, the proposals made by Comrade Podobnik. Why not? Because we have a bond code and it's written in there, who and how and in what way and how a contract can be pronounced for nothing and how it can be contested. Otherwise, we will stand up to all the institutions that mean something in this country, and that is not going to work. Today, we need to think first and foremost about whether or not tomorrow is a government, etc. I think that the material that the government has sent and also the conclusions that go in this direction, that corrections should be made in the field of legislation, that it is necessary - and I say so now also to those who have criticised - to provide permanent training for both the police, the prosecution and the courts. And at the same time, I would remind you, from which party was that Member who proposed first the training of judges - from which? Look for years ago! See from which party were the Members who proposed to provide a special centre in the State Prosecutor's Office Act to assist in such cases! Look! That is why I strongly reject these insinuations that the LDS is the one who, and so on, strongly rejects and suggests not to judge by myself - I particularly speak for those who have a rather hairy conscience and never cleared up matters with different money so I also suggest that, when we debate very soon on the committee, we also discuss what has already been warned to try to ensure, if necessary, additional funds and everything possible, that the judicial backlogs are set to some normal measure. What has been emphasized is that judicial backlogs in some way help people to act contrary to the law is definitely true. I think I've been exhausted enough and not boring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Christmas to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So little for morale: the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, it's your turn, not mine. We're here today talking about things that are wrong, but you have to do the job. For all of us, your work is too slow, both for the Members sitting in this meeting room, the main hall of the National Assembly, as well as for all those affected by various affairs. And I'm going to say yes, big or small fraud is fraud. And a large country or a small country, the Republic of Slovenia is a small country on the map, but in laws and honesty it must be good. It's honesty or it's not there, and it's the same with legal certainty, whether we have it or not. Last March, I asked who gave the instruction that a billion tolars had come to the SIB for the new year. To this day I have not received an answer or an epilogue, what was true, who was wrong here and what was the result. If my accountant, when I was mayor, was so foolishly disturbed, I probably wouldn't be an accountant for long. And another thing I'd like to say. Yesterday we received this audit report on the remedial measures taken by the Ljubljana municipality. The management of Holding Ljubljana and the public firm on page 4 and on page 5 says: "The City Council did not exercise any institutional control over the public company Holding, since the rights of the founder of public enterprises were exercised by Holding and the municipality of Ljubljana was represented only by the mayor at meetings of the Holding Assembly, without directing the city council on how to decide at the assembly." It's all over and said [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u147	Mr. Christmas, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u148	Judicial backlogs. [[...]] How many Orions will come on the day when all the backlogs will be saved?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u149	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Lukič the Evil One. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning they appeared with the word of colleague Bajuk, colleague Podobnik and colleague Janša and I said, but now these capacities, so to speak, will tell what we expect from today's big event. But the disappointment was very quick. In fact, the moment the vice-governor of Banka Slovenije came along, Mr. Samo Nučič, who actually cut the cut cold-bloodedly for the slice and showed how it had failed and why the SIB bank had failed. On the one hand, the credulity of the people in the city, on the other hand, two spouses you don't know who the bigger shark is. That's the story of the SIB bank. As for Orion, however, thank God, despite all this, this thing has shown itself quickly enough so that the law enforcement authorities can stop her, because otherwise we are used to these things so long that no one finally knows why she's going. But I think it's more than clear here that this is a fraud. Others have to decide, but I don't think this will end as well with Orion this time as it did with the Slovenian poet who wrote this poem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u152	Madam President, I propose that you conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for Mr Zląb has insulted the Klemenčič family when comparing them with sharks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u153	Mr Yaša did not use any name in his debate. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! It was sort of a crucial moment, a political moment when people realized that they had been long-winded, a lot of silence, huge corruption issues were falling under the rug. That's why you notice the nervousness on this side. So far, you have always succeeded in convincing people with the help of Mr Potrč's latest clearance, most of the commentators who are on your side must, of course, be. But the terrifying dimensions of this financial affair have done enough and enough to bring things to a climax in the extra-dissolved Orion affair. See, even more horrifying than all the money that has been poured into private pockets is that it was an organised robbery of taxpayers' money, that it was sucked up by Ljubljana taxpayers, that there was a huge amount of money that could otherwise go to scholarship children from lower social classes for better bus transports and I don't know what to spend that money or could be reduced rates, and that money was deliberately ripped from their wallets. At last year's debate, you silenced Orion's case here, although from these documents, as we have seen today, all the authorities of the bank, everyone knew what was going on in Orion and you were silent, you did not ask the Slovenian public, nor did the prosecutors to start investigating Orion's case at that time. Why did you do that? Because, as the Tarč broadcast has shown, there are names from two parties, the United List and LDS; Mr Klemenčič, Nada Klemenčič, Dr Nina Plaže, Pogačar, Tekavčičeva, Mayor of Potočnikov, the current mayor of Simšič, who inhibits the discovery, Toš, Senica, Mile Šetinc, Rigelnik are listed. These are the footage from your two clients. For this reason, it would be imperative to come here and explain corruption in his client, in government parties, Prime Minister, Mr Rop. But he didn't come here. He went to the 21st Forum, and Mr. Pahor also went to the 21st Forum. There, too, when Mr Sandi Češko was in the supervisory board of the SIB bank at the time when the key things were happening. And it is a shame that Mr Pahor is not now, I would ask him, I have learned that they have been discussing precisely how to prevent the political damage that this affair will cause to these two parties. Let Mr. Pahor say it. The Prime Minister should come here before us to explain such a key political affair. Look, in these days we had MPs full of parliamentary offices, people were coming with a bunch of paper, I can show you who are supposed to be, and in fact, in some deplorable cases people from the same political nest, Kristal Rogaška, were reporting to me who is the president of the supervisory council, whose son-in-law whose important policy is from the same political nest; Merinka Maribor, the same people from the same environment, appeared when they were extremely valuable land, of course, sold and workers were fired and sent to the market. And these cases are huge. See, even the mayor, even the former mayor is now, who is probably not the most guilty in the matter, the biggest sinner, stressed in the show: "SIB Bank can lead to some financial pillars that burden Ljubljana and Ljubljana." He realizes that this is not the only affair they have on their conscience. That there are other financial pillars here where this money flows in every way possible. Others also stressed that if all non-payments of loans to the SIB bank were to be published, they would know a lot about customer financing, one of those who were on this public tribunal stressed. Of course, it's about financing customers, people who have influence in these customers. In order to make some smoke curtains, there were some investigations yesterday, but that's where your people appear. Wasn't the director of the Commune in Novigrad a member of the team that Mr Bandelj had at the time at the Ministry in the case of Vic-Holmec? Instead of being taken seriously at the time, you are now making smoke curtains, but people have overlooked these things, and I think, as I said at the beginning, it's a crucial political moment. Don't judge left right, you'd better stand up for us to start solving these things. On all sides, it was said where the root cause of such a situation was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u155	Comrade Lavrinz. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I think that colleague Jerovšek has mentioned our client and corruption in the ranks of our party and I would suggest that if there is a catharsis today, he should tell us who they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u157	Just a moment, Comrade Lavrinz, no offense, calm down. If you have been specifically mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u158	Not personally, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u159	Then I'm afraid I can't give you a replica. Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u160	Not personally, Mr President, but I am a member of the party mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u161	Peace in the hall! See, it is quite clear what paragraph 70 provides, and I also give the floor to the replica if the debate is held by the previous debater and an explanation is needed, then paragraph 70 gives the opportunity for a replica, except for the chairman, to give the replica a replica. If it wasn't, we don't give a word for the replica, and in this case, I can't give it. Please. My friend Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u163	I said that before with my colleague Janša, the same rules apply here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u164	Time is running out, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u165	I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u166	Colleagues and colleagues, it is probably one of the more important issues today at this point, why people even decide to do such unreliable business as they did in the Orion affair. Surely it is one of the answers, and it also explains the financial pressures of people who want a higher quality of life. In doing so, they are easy to fall for con artists who will appear everywhere and everywhere, irrespective of such tighter control. Personally, I feel that the supervision of the public, the representatives of law enforcement, inspection services, the country, the opposition and the media, on the other hand, is never too much. Crimes must be investigated and, in the case of reasonable suspicions and evidence responsible for illegal acts, also convicted. In the case of the SIB Bank, I am sure that we have all understood this also, the political responsibility of the former mayor has been accepted, criminal complaints have been filed, all competent services have reacted, the government has already reacted in similar cases by amending the necessary legislation. And since it's been said a lot, I just want to react to one more thing. These were mentioned two metres persecuted by law enforcement authorities in individual political actors or suspects. A comparison was also mentioned with the case of the Cypriot mayor Popovic. Let me say that, as far as I know, the law enforcement authorities, at least in the administration, at least in the area of the Municipality of Koperdo, have the same criteria, regardless of which party any actor involved in these stories comes from, regardless of how important an economic operator from any important company. Look, Mr. Popovic was detained and then released. His case also appears in a report on human rights violations by the State Department. We forget, however, that in the same way, by the same measures, with the same vat, the Korah sub-mart was detained, which led to his arrest, but was later proven to have been groundless. And he was definitely tipped off by his political opponent. The only difference is that the media made one for the victim and the other automatically convicted the thief. In the first case, of course, this was not difficult, since this was done in cooperation with an influential recorder and an important journalist of important Slovenian television, which, see, then became a municipal official for the award. You know, Mr Popovic initially bragged that he had the support of the LDS. Then he quickly changed that, and sought support and intervention with the SDS President, Mr Janša. But he could use Booth and someone else. Of course, I judge in both cases that all suspects are innocent until they are legally accused. And not lastly, and I'm gonna stop here. I do not think that this National Assembly should, and this has been said many times, should not deal with the search here in the plenary on individual cases, but should hear more about what legislation actually needs to be amended so that such cases do not occur anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u167	Good. We are slowly approaching the end of the debate, so I will invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We have concluded that we will start decisions immediately after the discussion is concluded. We have amendments to the updated proposal for conclusions and we will also have to decide how to proceed. My proposal will, taking into account the agreement reached at today's college, because most of the time for the parliamentary groups has already expired, that for some reasonable time, not for more than an hour, we will resume the debate on the amendments. We will conclude the debate first. Now they have a word, if they have time left, Comrade Moge, no, Comrade Spindler, no, Comrade Terčon - cancels, Comrade Pucko, no, Comrade Anderlič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u168	In fact, I think that the essence of all the discussions is expressed in a sentence, as one of the discussers freely put it: "This bank started in a scandal and ended in a scandal. As I understand it, this was given to us by the last non-democratic President of the Slovenian government, Mr Šinigoj. And, of course, some also noticed this in the emerging Demos and wanted to prevent it because they knew where the money would go to ensure that former financial officials were provided." And then it goes on. You'll figure out who said that. So it is that for ten years there was some hatred, some hatred and some need to destroy even what was good; but I believe that there was something good about all these things. I also recall that something similar has been tried to prove with Triglav Banki, since the current government had through various funds, as well as ministries, public companies and so on, enough money in Triglav Bank, and was then bankrupted without adequate justification. Today, it has proved, and it is clear, that claims have been paid 100 percent or close to 100 percent, but bankruptcy has not yet been completed and more will be paid. I am only saying this because I want to say how inappropriate it is if politics is involved in one way or another and I am trying to do something instead of the institutions of the system that have to do so. However, it will be at the stage of monitoring that it should be at the stage when they prescribe appropriate regulations for the conduct of specific areas, and it should also be at the stage when irregularities need to be detected when criminal proceedings need to be carried out and so on. It is not possible to make a decision in politics at any time and because something does not suit us because we do not like something, as gentlemen certainly did not like it, as someone who has a very long memory, I hope that and knows that because he did not like it and that he does not forget to say at any point what it was until 1990 and what everything that is not yet this structure, this authority or all the authorities at that time have rectified it as a remedy for the injustices of so-called undemocratic time or socialism or whatever. For this reason, there is certainly a fundamental emphasis today on just one thing: to determine whether the government, all the other institutions within it and, of course, the other, the Bank of Slovenia and the like, which have submitted thorough reports, or whether they have submitted all the reports, all the things they can give for political discussion. After all, it is also things that cannot and must not be claimed because it is such a constitution because there are laws because in the rule of law it is always so that, on the one hand, the authorities and institutions have their powers, on the other hand, citizens and citizens and also legal persons, and so on, rights and certain protections. And only within the framework of very clear distinctions between these functions in the country can the responsibility of individual institutions, individuals within these institutions for possible irregularities, crimes or otherwise be discussed. It would be very wrong if the National Assembly turned into a tribunal and simply [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u169	Order, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u170	here in the way that has already been said, putting this together, confirming it in a way that I've read, it's someone quoting and I'm developing a thesis on how some group, how some individuals are corrupt, how the bastards, how they're involved in unusual business and so on. [[...]] Thus, ladies and gentlemen, in some serious countries, it is impossible to work seriously and responsibly. In any way, I want all things that have deviated from laws that were contrary to positive legislation in all cases where legislation has been abused, when people's hardships have been abused, and so on, to be clarified in the way and in the way that they are prescribed in the rule of law. Everything else takes to the country's district, leads to the banalisation of the government's national council, the Bank of Slovenia and all the institutions that are set up in this system and in other countries as well. It is impossible in the way that the Slovenian People's Party has today made proposals to supplement the conclusions, to take additional conclusions, because, I will illustrate only one, for example, this additional one that has now come to the table last. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should consider the possibility, etc., at the central event of relatively outdated deadlines. If the Slovenian People's Party is convinced of this, it will certainly be through the Minister's Government, or it will itself propose a proposal to amend the law and arrange it. Unfortunately, there is a past in laying down certain things for the government. We had this in the past, and we had until the adoption of the new rules of procedure. And the only effective and true thing is that, if there are reasonable suspicions and also adequate analyses and data, a corresponding amendment of the law should be prepared. Everything else seems to me to be putting off some responsibility somewhere else, and this will not bear the result. Then I'd like to comment on the conclusions later, so I don't know how you'll deal with the rest of the time. I assume that the Government now has its power to explain what it has intended to explain and I hope that it will explain in such a way that a proposal of conclusions, which imposes and requires individual reports, individual additions, has been made, and in the course of the discussion, when, I think, the representative of the Bank of Slovenia, in particular, and written reports that he is responding to these requests or to these additional proposals. If so, then I believe that the purpose of today's meeting has also been achieved. Of course, I believe that the first one with whom I started this debate was also the first, when the gentleman freely admitted that he was going to find the moles in Demos, Demos was no longer there, but a similar structure existed, and to find out who, however, allowed the Slovenian Investment Bank to appear in the Slovenian space, and that it had the opportunity to market through all the marshes that apply under all the control of the Bank of Slovenia, etc., even existed. Just because at the time the bank was being built, there were some people there who didn't like this gentleman and that structure back then. And, of course, I say, I hope that it has also been achieved by removing some of the veils in various odd transactions, and that this will also contribute to a faster conclusion, clarification and, ultimately, the resolution of certain problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u171	Anyone else on the government's side would like to give an explanation? Secretary General. Please. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u172	Thank you. The discussions also mentioned a number of issues on the subject of the loan or agreement between Slovenia and Germany concluded in 1992 and also ratified. Two agreements have been ratified through this Parliament. The material we have provided today also includes an additional explanation on the issue of debate on the Committee on Finance, on the question of what interest rates were fixed and whether these interest rates were appropriate in relation to the period in which they were set. In particular, I would like to point out that, on the basis of all available reports as well as documents which are traceable both by the Slovenian and German sides, there is a common conclusion that, in determining both the first and all subsequent interest rate increases, a common agreement has always been signed or adopted with both parties, both German and Slovenian, and on the basis of these calls, the interest rate which was applicable has always been published. I would like to point out that this interest rate was 15% lower than inflation over the first period, plus 4% or 6% in the second period. In view of the fact that funding for additional activities was also provided for under this Agreement, these activities concerned in particular the areas of advice, supervision and the establishment of an appropriate guarantee fund. This is probably the reason why some borrowers may have entered this credit relationship somewhere, since a considerable number of these borrowers were unlikely to have had adequate collateral and were also using this so-called guarantee fund. What is very important in this process is that the award process itself was transparent, in the sense that all information points were available and also set out, both on Slovenian and German pages; that it was issued on each invitation to tender in addition to the publication in the Official Journal and that it was in practice a transparent public communication method. Of course, in the case referred to by Mr Puksic, but in the event that there have been any anomalies, I suggest that such cases be judged individually, given the differences in interest rates that you have also discussed. In view of the fact that all these materials were also provided in writing, we also consider that the reason given is that the report should be resubmitted in accordance with yesterday's decision and recognises today's written material as having already been carried out is that the reply was made in writing at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Secretary of State Molan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of some of the previous discussions, I must stress in particular that public authorities, including the police, can only act within a framework that is possible and legally permissible, so they can only react when there is a legal basis for this. It is in no way acceptable that the Minister should, or that I should say more broadly, policy, in any way, decide when and against whom criminal proceedings or pre-trial proceedings are instituted or other statutory investigation measures or measures for the accused’s presence are carried out. The dictatorship in this area is by no means acceptable and, fortunately, is not possible, and the use of these powers requires the fulfilment of difficult legal conditions. In the decision, it is not the name, position or political option of an individual who is in the process, but the sole act and legal conditions which must be met for the use of individual powers. In cases of economic crime investigation, this is a particularly difficult work requiring an interdisciplinary approach. It is a long-term, hard, persistent and thorough work to ensure that all evidence which, in a particular procedure, enable the execution of a criminal procedure and lead to a conviction is protected. I assure you that the police are carrying out intensive tasks under their jurisdiction and will carry out all legislative measures in the context of the pre-trial procedure with a view to producing quality criminal charges and hand them over to the competent prosecutor. There is no way that work will be done quickly at the expense of quality. We will certainly pursue quality in the first place. I must stress the urgent need to leave the decision-making process to the competent authorities, and in view of the work presented by these authorities in the Government's work, I see no reason for mistrust in their work so far, and I do not think that there will be any future reasons for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Secretary of State Svilan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u176	Dear Members and Members! Since there have also been a number of personal discredits, a few words may be possible first. Just because someone is mentioned, whether by his name he speculates as a possible candidate, does not mean that he has actually run or that he is a serious candidate for a particular place. If talking about someone was already the basis for this, I myself have been a candidate for many cities, including the Ministry. However, it is likely that similar things happen to others. That's why they don't know anything about companies that are being speculated to run. I officially did not run for any of these places and was not aware of the situation in the SIB bank, as I had no access to any additional information, as was otherwise known to the public. That is why I strongly deny my involvement in any SIB affair or in the Orion affair. My integrity is judged by others, and the government has clearly assessed that I am credible to represent her in this meeting, which is an important meeting in this matter. Now something about the allegations that were given in the debate. The flat-rate indications that the financial system is not regulated or that it is inadequate are not justified. According to our estimates and what has already been said in the introductions, the legislation and laws that are prepared are consistent with both European standards and with those which are in the field of sound financial practice. If I mention only one of the possible cases cited, this is the indication of the nutritional and credit services or HKS and their inability to further develop. These allegations are also misleading. Cooperation and engagement in Slovenia and the European Union have a significant substantive difference, as well as a tradition. As we know, although Slovenia has been present for many years, the size of these HKS and cooperatives is much smaller, compared with European cooperative banks, which also represent some of the size of the entire financial or banking system in Slovenia. Moreover, there is a substantive difference in the fact that, in a cooperative in the world, cooperatives personally guarantee the entire assets of the bank to which they invest, and this constitutes the basis that gives confidence to the savers who are in that bank. This was not possible with us. As this proposal, which we have also proposed to the Minister of Finance, was unable to accept, it was necessary to make some other substantive changes that allowed individual HCSs to decide on certain solutions in the context of possible links. In practice, it has been shown that individual HCS services are too small to exist any further. And these connections that have happened are, of course, suitable to solve a particular situation. According to our assessment, much has already been done with regard to the coordination of supervisory institutions in Slovenia in this area. I would not repeat what the Deputy Governor has already explained in the introduction, how this coordination works, but the government has also taken steps forward in this area and is also trying to unify these supervisory institutions. On the basis of today's debates and some requirements, we will try to further substantiate these matters and also to assess how best and most appropriate the system for Slovenia would be. The market system, the principles of market operation, of course, bring greater uncertainty, certain new risks that are not or have been regulated in the non-market system. And it is not possible to expect that each individual can assess these risks. Even so, good laws, of course, cannot foresee all the risks that arise daily in particular in the financial market, which is rapidly evolving and where there are new instruments that individual users face each day. At the moment, the international institutions are positively assessing our existing legislation. These institutions have carried out a series of reviews of both legislation and supervisory institutions. As you know, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are implementing the so-called Financial Sector Assessment Programme in Slovenia and, based on these estimates, they are very beneficial. The European Union is also implementing similar programmes and the evaluations have been even better under these programmes. Nevertheless, we will try, on the basis of today's debates and, of course, some comments, to consider further possible changes that will enable the financial system to function even better within the European Community or the Union in which we enter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr President of the Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has long known that corruption in Slovenia is a serious problem. As early as 2001, she established the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption and finally allowed him to act autonomously, professionally, impartially without any influence on the work of the Office, which he himself would consider to be inadmissible or inadmissible. Soon after its establishment, the Office met with the case of SIB Bank when the SDS Council Group took note of the minutes of the meeting of the City Council and then worked on this case within its powers virtually all the time that it existed until today, when it received the dimensions that we are dealing with here today. The next phase was when the city authorities changed and the current mayor first submitted a request for assistance in clarifying the situation and then all or most of the documentation on which the office could then draw up its expert findings. Then came individual injurers and brought contracts and various other acts, on the basis of which a picture was formed, which is now seen in our expert opinions, which were also presented to the National Assembly. Among other things, Dr. Brace's MP said that the office had somehow recedede in this matter. I can only say that we have done everything possible within the framework of the documents available to us, within our powers, that of course we cannot invent any further links, that we cannot create a situation that we do not know or that we do not know that we can only work on the basis of what is known and accessible to us at some point. But we never made it back. In this National Assembly, my words were used for political purposes when I said that the monopoly of one powerful party could be dangerous to corruption, so that, in connection with inefficient institutions and the absence of active civil society, it could lead to fertile soil for the development of certain forms of corruption. It was then also used for political purposes. But that just shows that in fact our office does not take account of who it deals with, but deals with everyone in the same way in terms of preventing corruption and nothing else. And I think it is good and positive that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in some way allows such work and that it has also allowed the adoption of anti-corruption legislation, which will soon lead to the establishment of an independent institution with additional powers, which will be able to do even better and more, what the Anti-Corruption Office is doing now. That's what I'd say. The Anti-Corruption Office in its materials, as well as what you Members have, is available, as well as other institutions that do not have specific police or prosecutorial powers, we can think and also say in the context of legally permissible words a lot about fraud, fraud, possible criminal suspicions that arise in this regard. And today we have expressed a lot of this. But a legally relevant decision and decision that can lead to legal consequences is in fact only and only in the hands of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. The police are autonomous in their professional decisions, and the prosecution is even more so. And at no time can anyone impose on the State's Attorney what and how to decide in a particular case. In fact, this means the most dangerous exercise of power that is even more dangerous than the inefficiency of an institution which should be activated is not activated. If such inefficiency replaces any other body and even the body of another branch of authority, then we can say goodbye to the rule of law. We have other mechanisms at our disposal. If the prosecutor does not prosecute in the event of a reasonable suspicion of a criminal service and that he knows it, and the same applies to the police, then that official has committed a crime. The Prosecutor is obliged to prosecute in this case. And in fact, through other mechanisms and other forms and ways, you can call the Attorney General to account and then, of course, gradually by rank to those officials who are responsible for such procedures. We can't, none of us can, none of us can get directly involved in the work of these organs. Believe that sometimes a man who sees something that he wants to do something that he wants to go forward to do something himself, maybe something more, but at that point they also tell me that we're at the border of authority if we haven't already exceeded them. And it is likely that each institution should be aware of the extent to which its powers extend and act within the framework of these powers and in other ways to resolve situations such as these today. However, it is certainly useful that there is such a discussion, that it is formed in essence, I will say, in general, a general opinion on the situation which now rules in Slovenia and which is absolutely not good. In fact, it is the institutions' incoherence, the considerable inefficiencies of control, in particular on such behaviour. It is good that we are all aware of this; it is good that everyone takes appropriate measures within its competence and I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take them in this context. At least in view of the conclusions proposed as a result of this extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Director. Mr. Minister, mag. Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for this extensive and lively debate, which, I am sure, has highlighted quite widely the issues on the agenda, raises critical questions regarding the SIB and the upcoming events related to the Orion case. The debate has reinforced the Government's efforts to make sure that all open issues related to these issues are resolved. I don't think that grade is overrated. There must have been a large-scale contribution to this, which has undoubtedly clarified many of the issues still open, which I also conclude is that very specific issues that would have been raised to the government in relation to individual procedures and individual steps to ensure that there were no such issues in practice. I think it is clear from all the reports that the institutions are operating. The question that was actually drawn almost as a red thread was justified, whether the government has done everything in a broader sense, or whether all those who are obliged to act in this area have done everything. I am sure that these reports also show that all those who are obliged to do so have taken an active part in the resolution of matters. The second question remains whether everyone acted fast enough. The answer to this question is often relative. I'd like to see everything done before yesterday. However, I firmly believe that this debate is also a serious incentive to accelerate the work of all those concerned. Of course, not the first such acceleration. I am sure that the government's activities so far have given a certain impetus, incentive, impetus to clarify matters that will also be taken by the government and foresee that the achievements of these procedures will continue to be reviewed in order to verify that everything the government has done to individual ministries and other services has been done, whether all this has been done, so that this will also continue to contribute to all those activities that are needed to bring the procedures to an end also an appropriate result, in accordance with our legislation, so that all of this will succeed. The government will certainly propose amendments to certain laws. Not because everything would be so wrong that it would be necessary to change a whole lot of legislation on the nose. We will propose amendments because a more detailed analysis of all the problems we have discussed today shows that there is a need and that there is room for improvement. Of course, it must also be said that there is no reasonable expectation that an individual can be protected from all risks. So we expect everyone to do what is expected of him. We also expect good cooperation when we discuss legislative changes at this point, so that we can tackle the shortcomings that we have identified together. Finally, precisely because of the extensive materials, reports and others that have been prepared for this meeting, in our view, a number of conclusions that impose additional materials are in fact irrelevant or already realised, as some discussers have noted. I suggest that you take this into account, therefore, that some conclusions are realized, in fact, most of them, and that they are also unnecessary. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The vice-president, Mr. Nučič, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u182	Yes, thank you very much. I think I owe two answers to direct questions. First, by Mr Podobnik, what is the share of ownership of public enterprises in Slovenian banks? Unfortunately, I can't tell him the information because it's necessary to look at the stock books of Slovenian banks. In the past, however, I recall that this ownership was much greater than it is today. Today the Commercial Bank of Triglav has already been mentioned. Just in the Commercial Bank Triglav is also a partial co-owner of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and the same applies to the SKB Bank. I recall, however, that I do not know in my mind that there are still smaller shares, not majority shares, smaller, in particular minority shares of some electricity companies, some water supply companies, utilities and so on. If you want more details, you should look at the Slovenian Bank's share book. I think it is important that I answer the ladies back there, including as far as HKS is concerned, because today the question has been asked. As far as the HKS is concerned, I hope that the Bank of Slovenia will adopt a final report on Thursday, 4 this month, on how we are with the HKS. You will all remember that on February 20, 1999, the Banking Act, which has been defined, I will say, was unfortunately a five-year transitional period. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u183	More out loud, Vice Governor. You can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u184	On 20 February 1999, the Banking Act, which defined a five-year, unfortunately a five-year transitional period for the adjustment of HKS in the Banking Act, was adopted. [[...]] I must say that after these five years, as I said, I expect this conclusion to be adopted on Thursday. The situation is as follows: Of 73. The HKS, which existed when the Banking Act was enacted in 1999, as the lady herself mentioned, are two HKS that met the conditions, the HKS Vipava and HKS Tolmin. For them, the procedure will be followed for including these two HKS or for obtaining a green label, as it is called a plastic label, or the licenses of the Bank of Slovenia, according to the procedure defined in the law. First, we need the opinion of the auditor, then we do the control. The vast majority of agricultural HKS have made a happy decision, but I must say that we have helped a lot in Banka Slovenije, I will say, push towards this decision that these HKS have decided to merge with the association of food and credit services and it is, in practice, not to join forces, but to take over the assets and liabilities of the HKS by the Slovenian Cooperative Agricultural Bank. Why am I explaining this? Because of this, of course, the situation is not as brilliant as it is now the result. I must say that we have had nothing in common for as many, many, no matter how many very large and problematic matters concerning, in particular, agricultural HCS. Some of them were just before the payoff. And, of course, if Banka Slovenije were to act again, I would say, bureaucraticly, by the force of law, of course, we would have several more bankruptcys of agricultural HKS in the middle, which would of course mean that it would be likely that in Prekmurje some 15,000 savers would suffer additional damage, in addition to the already known damage to accidents in the agricultural field. I think that by working together and I will also say with our pressure as central banks, although if we look very formally, this is not even our direct role, with the pressure on the founders of these HKS, this HKS has managed to lead to the fact that the vast majority of HKS have decided to merge, some of them have also taken over, and we have practically closed down the sector in this way, I will say, as a central bank, and let's not make it sound unfair, I will say, we consider success if the HKS will no longer exist or that only those who will have a license will exist. Of course, the situation with the craftsmen's HKS is different. This is probably what you know, you have also named them or have been called an affair, this was the Slovenian Savings and Loan Office of Kranj, the HKS are separated from HKS Sicura, in which, of course, there was no real chance of any delay, of course, given the situation found in these HKS, I will say, restrictive action and after initial findings and following the control requirements which none of these HCS has fulfilled, the strictest action and proposals for bankruptcy that are practically ongoing. I must say that the Bank of Slovenia will have brought charges against all those responsible for causing bankruptcy and, of course, for the frauds that have been identified, and now the law enforcement and prosecution authorities are on the move. I can only ensure that the central bank, when it has filed a complaint against individual suspects of crime, prepare a complaint, I will say, so professionally, because it is very specific areas of work, that, of course, the authorities of the investigation and later prosecution in our opinion should no longer have much to do with the collection of additional documentation, because we are practically preparing everything ourselves. There was another explanation. I think that there is also a wrong belief among these Members, which has been expressed here today. Although it is a detail, the Commercial Bank of Triglav, as you recall, was blocked on 19.6.1996 and went bankrupt in December 1996. These rumors, or these statements from the newspaper, that bankruptcy was unjustifiable when all creditors received 100% of their claims paid back, are binding. Someone who reported a claim at the end of 1996 worth 100 units did get 100 in 2003, but we need to know that during the seven years in which the bankruptcy procedure lasted, inflation worked practically at approximately 60, 65 or 70 percent and the real value of that withdrawal was not 100, but between 30, 25 or 20 units. In this way, I must inform you that in the case of KB Triglav was against Banka Slovenija, if Banka Slovenije acted unlawfully, 12 lawsuits were filed. All actions are practically and 10 of these actions are also legally completed and obtained by the Bank of Slovenia at the Court of Appeal, and we are still waiting for two rulings, but we expect that the Supreme Court will decide as it did in the case of the aged 10. That is essentially the case, I will say, I am counting on the fact that it will soon be legally completed, that the Central Bank acted in the way it had to in 1996, and that, of course, it did not violate any law. As far as the proposed conclusions are concerned, I just want to clarify something. The amendment to Decision No 4 is submitted by the Slovenian People's Party to disclose, under the current legislation, data on SIB borrowers who have not paid all contractual obligations in full. Once again, I would like to point out that Article 59 of the Banking Act sets out who we can disclose individual data to. And I would like to point out that we will immediately disclose the data when the following happens, as stated in Article 59, paragraph 3, point 4, that the Bank of Slovenia is obliged to disclose all individual data to the court that it needs in the bankruptcy proceedings against the bank or in another proceeding that leads it under its jurisdiction. Thus, when we receive a legally valid formal request from the court to disclose individual data, we will also disclose these individual data to the court. Before that, the law, which I have already said, adopted by this Parliament, does not allow us to disclose individual data. Thus, proceedings will have to continue, and once we have the relevant court decision, we will also disclose this information to the court, as stated in the law. As far as amendment to Amendment 2 is concerned, I must say that the idea is not a bad one. It is not bad in this sense because the amendment to Decision No 2 proposes that the powers to control consumer credit be transferred from the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to the Bank of Slovenia, if I consider this to be a recognition or an additional work. However, I would like to point out that the matter is incompatible with the current Bank of Slovenia Act and with the Bank of Slovenia Act. And if we want to move the matter like this, not only is there an additional standard in the consumer lending law, but it is necessary to regulate the matter systematically, since, after all, the central bank does not have direct powers under the banking law to control non-bank financial institutions. Perhaps only in thought - since there has been a lot of this today - the government of the Republic of Slovenia might also consider the possibility of establishing a specific group or a specially trained group that would be able to monitor or monitor various unusual areas of financial intermediation, other than banks, insurance companies and securities markets. Because we know that in addition to lending or lending money, there is a completely unregulated and unsupervised area of leasing, where all sorts can happen, and we do not know about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u185	The Secretary-General will address this issue. Then the motioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Well, I also think that today's debate was welcome to support the government's efforts in this area. I also assess that the government, as it has shown in the debate and which also stems from the attached materials, has initiated appropriate activities in accordance with its powers; above all, that there is no reason for the institutions not to trust that they are, of course, operating within the system in force and that they have also been involved relatively early in detecting irregularities and that they are still actively implementing them. Perhaps I would like to define myself to the proposals that have been submitted and to the amendments to these proposals. First of all, I would say that it would be good if the National Assembly concluded today's debate with a decision. But, of course, because we have rushed to the government and also realized everything that is only now being proposed as conclusions, I would say that a decision should be made up literally if I say so, although some may even be accepted. First of all, I would like to say that the decision to order the State Assembly to report to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Tax Administration, the Anti-Corruption Office, that the Government has already done so by 31.3. The representatives of these institutions also explained them in detail. The government has already realised - and today I think it would be controversial - to also submit and present reports to Members as regards the role of the capital company, the Slovenian compensation companies in relation to business transactions or the purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank by the New Ljubljana Bank. Banka Slovenije has also made sufficient detailed reports today on all that it is expected to do in the present decision of the National Assembly until 31 March. The same applies, of course, to the fourth proposal for a decision. The Slovenian Institute of Audit has already submitted its report to the National Assembly and the government has also explained exactly what and how it reacted as a co-owner of the Ljubljana Bank. The Ministry of Labour, as well as the Ministry of Finance, explained what was involved in the implementation of the Interstate Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the creation of existence. So I think that the conclusion that would suggest that this should be done by 31.03 is probably not necessary. I must say that, of course, the government has also responded to a number of other proposals for conclusions that the Committee on Public Finance and Monetary Policy has not adopted. It is those conclusions which have been re tabled today or tabled jointly by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia Group of Members. The government has also fully reported on these conclusions today. In particular, he also made a detailed report on the decision, which was mentioned as an amendment in the sixth decision and also on the basis of the tax administration's reports, to ensure that, of course, there were no financial transactions between Gregor Golobic, Milet Ščetinc and Orion and Pay Consulting. With regard to LDS' participation in these financial transactions, as has been explained, it is essentially a situation where almost a decade ago the client acted in the same role as High-a-vis Orion, as today's parties, for whom we assume they were very likely to have been cheated. In addition to the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, something has already been commented on by the representative or vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I would say that the decision imposing on the government that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport should impose on a formal and informal level of education the acquisition of skills and training for the greater functional literacy of citizens and citizens, at least what it is, is not necessary, because I think that this is a component of every school system, I would even say that Slovenian citizens and citizens are probably also a little insulted and probably not necessary in this respect as a decision of the National Assembly, but I am sure that the Ministry of Education is still concerned about this point of school programmes. About the amendment to the joint number. The vice-governor said what he thought of him. However, I think it is somewhat contradictory with the amendment on the next third page, which is also an amendment to Decision No 2. I must say that, on behalf of the Government, this third-party amendment, which speaks of the Government preparing a full analysis of the legislation governing the functioning of supervisory institutions in the financial and capital market and preparing a proposal for a law, etc., would be supported. Because the government has already made this commitment, the government has also informed you about it today, but I think that, of course, it can't be just that or exactly what it says in the explanatory statement, because the explanation is also somehow pointless, if I may say so, because it speaks of an independent institution which would otherwise be a direct budgetary consumer who is financed exclusively from the budget and is not dependent on the collection of flat-rate fees, and at the same time the fees should be collected by the competent finance ministry, which is somehow not going together. Even better, it is somehow difficult to implement the next direction of explanation by which the authorities of these institutions are meant to be composed in a way that does not involve representatives of the government, neither ministries, nor regulators, nor the bank, nor the securities market agency, nor the security and control agency; in short, it is likely that the selection of people who could be appointed to such bodies would soon cease to exist. However, I certainly think that this is an assignment and that this is one of, I would say, a direction in which it shows thinking and complementing future supervision of business in financial markets. I do not think that it is possible to adopt an amendment to Decision No 2, which also reads so, at the end of the other party, which states that the Government is to empower an independent foreign research institution and that this institution is to carry out a thorough analysis of all decisions of all supervisory and regulatory institutions, such as the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Marketing Agency, the Court of Auditors, justice, in short, of the type of institutions which, of course, the Government does not have interference and cannot therefore have and cannot, of course, impose and authorize anyone to exercise control over these institutions. However, it seems to me that this intention is somewhat unusual at a time when we enter the European Union, when we have been under the very watchful view of the most rigorous and demanding monitoring of the European Union for a decade, and that such a conclusion of the Council of State, at least in a strange light, put Slovenia in this European Union, I do not know what it could do to help, especially because I say that it cannot be realized in the framework of powers and relations between the various branches of power in this country. With regard to the amendment on the 4th page of this first package, which speaks of the fact that the government is to examine the possibility of determining the nullity of contracts concluded between the Energy Community and the EIB by the NLB, I must say that the government does not, of course, have any interference to determine the nullity of the contracts. These are proceedings that may be brought before the courts, and the only court may be the authority to determine such nullity. Nor can the Government be a party to these procedures because it has not been damaged or because it has not been a contractual partner of these contracts. Of course, there's also an additional amendment that talks about studying, remodeling out-of-date deadlines. As it says here: "Study the possibility", of course this possibility can be explored, but it is necessary to know that outdated deadlines are not only a key procedural guarantee of customers, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, but also a key assumption of legal certainty. Simply, relationships, some relationships must be regulated, some contractual relations must be in force, market relations cannot be left to some random knowledge, some random knowledge of individual parties and only the relative deadlines cannot resolve this. In addition, obsolescence should be seen in the context of a comprehensive regulation of this area. So that the procedure - I agree here with Ambassador Anderlich - should be, if anyone really thinks this, slightly different. However, in order to examine this in the context of amending legislation, there is probably no dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u187	Does the proposer want a word? Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u188	The representative of the government has now commented on the conclusions and amendments to them, and I expect that we can talk about this separately because the amendments have been tabled during the meeting and this has not been counted or reported at all in the past. To what has already been said both in the introduction and later, I would first add or try to add some logical conclusion as to why this decision to purchase a SIB bank came about. However we weigh things, the most logical conclusion seems to have been presented also in the television broadcast of Television Slovenija Tarča a week or two ago, and where the journalist is, I think that this was Bojan Traven, drawing the following conclusion from this contribution: "If we are trying to end up with the data listed, the documents and, above all, the assessments of the good acquaintances with which we have been talking about the SIB affair, we get about this picture: the purchase of the SIB bank was only an integral part of the project of the privatisation of the Ljubljana holding company, which converts the huge 100 billion tolars per year and in which the bank would be a financial service with which the current authority would provide further authority for the long future, regardless of the composition of the city's world and county. The oil earnings of companies and individuals were only an accompanying part, all of which covered the public money of the Ljubljana people. When the affair broke out and it was no longer possible to do so, it was necessary to send the bank into liquidation or sell it at all costs in order to erase the still unexplained problematic transactions. A key role has been played by the network of old business and political ties, closer to the United List, although LDS’s Japs have also tried to penetrate this network and local elections have taken place. This conclusion, if this data is correct, was heard by 400,000 viewers in Slovenia. I didn't hear anyone react to that. Also, given that some were upset because I quoted it, some 400,000 people heard other data, but Mr Secretary of State or respected other representatives of the government, I do not think that you denied or explained it, although they were mentioned in the broadcast, which was probably seen by ten times more people than today's transmission of the session this afternoon. This same broadcast said that SIB’s new director Svil, the finance from LHB Frankfurt and today’s State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, were expected to come and prevent the already mentioned Ivan Viteznik or the line of the New Ljubljana Bank. So I just read what almost half a million people have heard. And, Mr Secretary of State, if you don't think that's true, we should probably explain it in the same media. We are mainly tied to public resources, and we expect such things to appear and do not hold that you will react to it. If I don't deny any things, then within a week they say: you didn't deny it, we took it for granted. In this same broadcast, it was also said that Mr Pogačar, who is now one of these, was a procurator of Energy, in business and even brought to this circle by Mr Mile Šetinc. I didn't hear anyone deny it. As to whether or not the prognosis procedure has been completed, Mr Molan, you have said that it is not that the prosecution is still leading this and so on. I obtained another Magnetgram from the Finance Committee of 26.2. this year, where Attorney General Zdenka Cerar said the following. "The pre-trial procedure was concluded on 28.12. last year, when another criminal charge was lodged on this matter. And I must say that there are currently no additional predictive activities in progress. Both members of the bank's administration and the procurator have been contacted. There are currently no additional predictive activities in progress." We asked if any other charges were filed. She said nothing was going on about it. So is she holding what the prosecutor said or holding what you said? I don't know. I certainly think that if the D.A. directs the proceedings, she holds what was said on her part. Many comparisons have been made between how these investigations are conducted in similar or partially similar cases abroad and how we are. Enron was mentioned, and especially the Italian story of Parmalata, which is fresher and where things are happening every day. Especially the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy have tried to prove how there is a debate at a higher level, how this is not politically exploited and so on. But let's look at four fundamental comparisons between how these actions take place in Parmalat and how in Slovenia at the SIB bank. In the Parmalata case, the action was quick, very fast. The main suspects are in custody. The investigation is expanding. Last night's Financial Times also says that it extended to four representatives of the audit house of the world-renowned Auditorium The Lloyd & Touche, where false reports were made. Just like the audit houses in the case of SIB bank with us. Well, the public, both in Italy and in the case of Enron in the United States, is thoroughly informed of how the investigation is taking place. Now let's look at these four elements at the SIB bank. The action was slow. The first applications were lost for one year. Another time. None of the main suspects are in custody. They did not even make house inquiries with anyone, Mr Klemenčič monitored the meeting and accompanied it in April. Today he was even the main guest in both Diaries on TV Slovenia and POP TV. I don't think there were any such guests on Italian television in the Parmalata case. Third time. The investigation with us is getting worse. It's not spreading. The investigation is limited to a series of contractors, not being further investigated, the state's attorney said. I reach out to the public in Italy from the news of the investigation, and only after we have applied for an extraordinary meeting did we get material that is confidential. And none of this can be said in practice to the public, all contrary to the interests of the investigation The situation as it is with us today very nicely describes this cartoon in Finance, an officer who is more or less deserving that at least some things have come to the public where the painted spouses Klemenčič, who are hugged, have a cake with many candles and say, true Mr. Government: "Dear Nadika today is a special day, we have received the 50th criminal complaint, it is time to celebrate because nothing will happen." That's about how it is in Slovenia. As for when the institutions knew and when, in fact, those who should move in the case of SIB and Orion - and the previously cited report of the Anti-Corruption Office, which Mr Penko has neither confirmed nor denied, he said that he does not renounce the authority, but that what is in this report is not in any other official report. Now, what is it, I don't know. But I think it's spelled correctly. So what does this report say? He says: "In examining the materials received in relation to the SIB bank, the Office acted with care since it was already in the material it had prepared on 20.5.2003", one year ago, "specificly stated; Orion will enter credit conditions instead of debt into the value of the mortgage burden. There is a justification for examining the relationship between Pay Consulting and Orion with Orion in England. Pay Consulting books virtually or nonexistent transactions. Orion, LTD d.o.o. shows leasing business instead of credit." And then, "The law enforcement authorities should review the documentation to confirm or dismiss these suspicions," and so on." As indicated below, this was given and transmitted to the Attorney General's Office at its meeting on 7.4.2003 in oral form and then apparently to the authorities in writing. But what happened? In February this year, the same office said: "In the above-mentioned documents, the Office specified the documents to be obtained in order to confirm the suspicion of the presence of offences. The Office regrets to note that in January and February 2004 the Office received evidence from journalists and other public media to confirm the presence of suspected crimes." After a bad year, the office received confirmation of suspicions from journalists, not from competent institutions, Mr Penko! Too bad you're not standing behind a man who wrote it honestly. What do we say to that? It doesn't have to be much, because that's the answer to a lot of things that you said before, and it was the muding of empty straw, how much work was done. As for the claim that no one was injured in the SIB and how it used to be Holding the city of Ljubljana, I don't know what kind of leeches for citizens - even the LDS lady was talking about some 9 billion, which was supposed to disappear at the time - but first, I think this scheme tells us everything. Here is the price of a megawatt heating clock in tolars from the beginning of 1990 until the end of 2002. This slow growth, this curve shows a period when it was probably operating normally, so the price went up according to inflation. However, when it began to purchase SIB, the price of the megawatt clock jumped from 4,400 to 6,400 - all at once in a few months. How come nobody got hurt? Those who paid 2,000 more or 50% more on a megawatt heating hour. And what's interesting is that this curve leaps steeply when the United List and the Liberal Democracy won a convincing majority in the local elections there in 1998. If it had done so badly before, the price would have been so high. But suddenly it started to grow when you came to power in Ljubljana, and it jumped vehemently - very interesting is this graph - when you decided to buy SIB. So do not tell me about how no one was harmed; of course he was and still is! Probably, if someone's spent 3 billion, someone else has to pay them. And he paid them, or he would pay them, at the price of heating, including those with the lowest pension and those with the lowest salary, the ones who, according to this information today, Mr. Robb mercifully paid them for 5,000; they too had to pay more. As for the conclusion of the coordinator of the government team today, Mr Bandl, that this debate supported the Government's efforts to clarify these matters, I must say that they would gladly do this to me, but it is difficult to support something that is not. When we see these efforts realistically, not just in words, we will be happy to support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u189	There's still a little time left for you, Dr. Bayuk, a few seconds. [[You don't want to.]] Then the Secretary of State has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to explain to Mr Janša. In your discussion a few hours ago, you explained or said that there was no investigation in the case of SIB and that this was the statement of the Attorney General. That is how I understood your debate, and I explained this debate that there is no actual investigation because there is not yet a request for the initiation of an investigation. Nor is the pre-trial procedure ongoing due to the fact that criminal charges have been filed and the State Prosecutor's Office did not require a supplement. Therefore, at present, these allegations and all the material which have been used by these defendants have been waived to the State Prosecutor's Office during the review phase of the State Prosecutor's Office, which may at any time require the completion of a criminal complaint or the completion of a police hearing or request the initiation of an investigation. So, at this stage, there's this process now, and that was my explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u191	Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u192	So, Mr Molan, I used to quote the same sentence as when I introduced it. I was talking about the premonition procedure. It was your choice when you carried out the forecasting procedure to carry it out only against the contractors, as you did against the contractors, that could also be against others. You didn't have to wait for the D.A.'s request. The prosecution has said that it does not intend at this time to extend the investigation that the forecasting procedure is completed at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u193	Mr. Stroligo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Only briefly, due to the comparison that was made concerning the investigations carried out in Italy and Slovenia. I don't think it's necessary to make an illusion that the Parmalat thing started when the media started publishing this thing. This is the case - and I know this not only from the media, but also from the contacts I have with colleagues in Italy - for a long time. And the effect seen in the media is the effect that the police are prepared to share with the media and other authorities. However, I am convinced that this matter, at least what I know, has not been discussed by the National Assembly all day, but has left it to the authorities to carry out their tasks, of course. Maybe another comparison. Today the action "mani pura" or clean hands as we know it was also mentioned. I was surprised because I was just as excited at the way and the approach of the country, which decided to clear up crime and corruption in its own kind, both governmental, political and economic and so forth. Unfortunately, an analysis of this action, which was then done, showed that, now that I do not have this information with me, over 70% of the people who were taken to prison in front of television cameras have returned to prison after a month and are still in the same jobs as before. So, a lot of what we hear and what sounds nice is, unfortunately, in the end, I'm sorry, it doesn't run out much differently than in Slovenia. They also have an ageing problem, and they also have a coordination problem; so much more so because there are so many different services in Italy. If I can tell the end of the good news, given that I didn't have a word today, that doesn't mean, sometimes we said that when we're quiet, that's when we do the most. Let me also say that in the office I run, we are not undergraduate, we have no problems with professional people, unlike some other services. There are also such authorities in the country. We do our work, we do not always explain it to the public, which may sometimes be perceptive and perception such that this work is not done. Even in these matters that we have reported, therefore - of course, I agree with Secretary-General Bandle, who said that there is no need to have these decisions today - there was no problem of coordination, at least not where the Office participated: not in the case of the SIB, not in the case of Orion, of course, within that vat, but in the one meter that we must all respect. That's a meter called the law. Everyone can act within the law and if the law of course is wrong or any regulation is wrong, I think that the National Assembly will also have the opportunity to discuss in a short time both the criminal code and the criminal procedure code, where possible, even if it proves necessary, certain things to say. I would not like to be too long, but I would just like to say that comparisons with foreign countries - and I will now come to the conclusion of the SLS Group - that it is necessary to empower a foreign or domestic supervisory institution to examine how we are doing. Look, this Parliament has adopted legislation that has reformed the state administration, which has given and made possible the independence that is comparable to that of the various bodies operating within the government. I don't think there was a problem with that, and I can say for myself, in the last 20 years that I've been dealing with crime, I haven't had a problem with any minister or any government, and I've replaced a few ministers, ordering what to do. This is not his jurisdiction and organs in the system, and those who have this autonomy can do this work and we can do it. We want, of course, to let us do this work to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u195	Secretary of State Svilan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I thought I answered in my previous reply. As far as those personal discredits are concerned, I obviously did not reply to Mr Janša. I have two things to explain. First of all, I didn't look at this show, not out, not exactly what the word about me was about. Therefore, it is also difficult to deny any statement or content that has been cited. In addition, I have too much to do to deny any information or speculation that occurs in connection with me in the media. And I think that, too, Mr Janša, there are many different kinds of information and speculations with you, which I do not think makes sense that you are dehumanising them. That's why I don't understand the purpose of what you said. However, I think that Slovenia is ahead of a new period, and this is the entry into the European Union, where we will face new risks and new challenges. My personal opinion is, and I have also understood this in today's session that we have also clarified certain information about this so-called affair, to which, as I have said before, I have not been personally connected. And I think that this can be the basis for us to be able to solve some similar or other affairs in the future, which may also occur, because there are many things going on in Europe in this area. As the colleague explained, some of these affairs are treated differently and take different approaches. From our perspective, I think it would make sense for us to organize ourselves in this way. That is why we expect and expect the government to receive the support of all Members of Parliament on any changes to the laws and other matters, both with regard to the institutions of control, in the proposals that will go in the direction of not having such an affair or such a matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Director of the Office, with your performance, I will conclude the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and respected! Only a brief reply to Mr Janša's words regarding the document that was being considered, which I said was a work version. This is actually a working version of the material, which was then also developed in an official document, and was sent to the Prime Minister as our report on the activities of the Office and the view of the Office on the whole situation in this matter. This report does not contain the claims made in the first part of today's debate. There are, however, the claims you have made now at the end. In fact, there are indications of what the Office did, the dates on which the Office provided the documentation and the dates on which it did not receive the feedback or later received it from the journalists. In essence, the Office criticises all the time the inefficiency and inefficiencies of the institutions with which it cooperates and the fact that it does not receive feedback, what happens to the cases it resigns. And in this case, it was the same, and we have informed the Prime Minister of this. I cannot say, however, that institutions have done nothing at this time; we have only failed to find out what is happening to these information that we have provided a long time ago. That is why this intervention has also taken place on our part. This is essentially an adjusted summary of the content of this part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. It ended about the time we planned for college today. At the beginning of this meeting, I said at the College that I, as President, am ready to apply the sixth indent of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the National Assembly to decide to extend the time for discussion for one hour. I think that it would be right to give each parliamentary group 5 minutes, 5 minutes also to the proposer and 5 minutes to the government, this would take a little less than an hour to give the word, that is, an exact hour. You have an amendment before you, about them you will [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] Excuse me? In a way, we have to divide the time of one hour by a short time. We talked about this with Mr Plewell, but we found that, except in this way, we can't possibly come up with a solution that's fair. Besides, there's an explanation for the voice. [[...]] [[Complaints from the bench.]] Be careful, I said that, too, that the size of the Group of Members can certainly be a criterion. There is another explanation for the vote that many Members will be able to use, I am sure of that. Thus, I see no other way to come up with the possibility that in this hour that we have agreed on, but, of course, we must first decide to come to the floor with the possibility of all the groups of Members. So, I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the debate on the amendments by one hour, so that we can also have a word on them, many amendments have been tabled. It takes a lot of discipline, five minutes to get to the parliamentary group, five minutes to get to the proposer, five minutes to get to the government. I put such a proposal to the vote. Please take a look at your voting devices, see if they're okay. Vote.62 present, 27 for, 25 against. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 25.]] This proposal is adopted. So now we're going to start the debate in three minutes, I'm going to interrupt the work of the National Assembly to reset the computer, otherwise our work won't be possible. Three minutes off to reset the computer, then proceed. Five minutes tops, enough to reset the computer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u200	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. We'll keep working. With the conditions for this, all is well, so that we can take into account the decision of the assembly to extend this point by one hour. Please take a look and arrange your amendments in front of you. First, we have here an amendment of two parliamentary groups to Decision 2, then a review of the amendments that you have received today, and there are most amendments. Then, again, the amendment to Decision 2 of the two Members See, first of all, we have an amendment to Decision No 2 of the SLS Group. [[...]] That was mixed up in my order. Then we have a proposal from the SLS Group, which is in the four-page review of the amendments. The two groups then table an amendment to Decision 2 and these two groups of amendments, which are under review on the four sides. I will take the decision slowly so that the debate will first and then the vote will be clear on what the national assembly will decide. Please, Lavrinc, you have your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u201	Yes, if we are to discuss, then on the proposals for amendments, I would like to ask first what about the proposal for an amendment. And if, of course, we are talking about this amendment that the government should consider, when reorganising the relative limitation periods, the possibility of abolishing absolute outdated deadlines in the administrative procedure and in the infringement procedure, and decide or report to the National Assembly - I am interested in what the Government thinks about this. Of course, that's why I'd be happy to have the Minister of Justice here. And, of course, I also ask the applicants whether they have taken into account that we have already passed a law on offences that will enter into force in 2005 and where the limitation period from 2 has been increased to 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u202	Thank you very much. So we're at amendment to decision number two. It was tabled by the SLS Group of Members. We've heard of a discussion by my colleague Lavrinz. Comrade Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u203	Thank you very much. For a little while. Yes, that's what we've taken into account, Comrade Lavrinz, and we know this solution. We have proposed, of course, a removal to consider the possibility of eliminating absolute obsolete deadlines. That's the difference. Mr Bandelj also somehow asked whether we were serious. We meant it. That's why we prepared these amendments. And we put a lot of work into everything to make them. Thus, this is no conjecture and we suggest that this amendment be adopted. In our view, the current regulation is a possibility to abuse the law and, last but not least, the absolute obsolete deadlines, according to the experience we have, are largely beneficial only to those involved in the process where they have the basic purpose and purpose of avoiding this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u204	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u205	In view of what has been said in the general debate, given what has been said in the proposals for the proposals for the proposals of the applicants at the time of the extraordinary meeting and what has been undisputedly delivered to the national assembly today and distributed, therefore, on all the reports requested, it is possible to adopt first two decisions which, in my opinion, consume all the conclusions and additional decisions proposed. First of all, that the National Assembly considered the reports of State institutions holding public functions relating to the sale of SIBs received by 2.3.2004. Secondly, the National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do its utmost to strengthen its efforts to investigate the suspicion of irregularities in the operation and sale of SIB banks and Orion and the operation of associated companies with citizens, in particular the coordinated functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the Foreign Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Ministry of Economy, the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, and to report to the National Assembly under the procedure. And, of course, the third point is to initiate as soon as possible all activities to change systemic solutions that will eliminate or prevent similar irregularities in future operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u206	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u207	I read this once again, especially when Comrade Sponik said that they meant it. I want to know where the comparative legal arrangement is, say, where do you have it? Because this is where you talk, for the first time, about the Act of Offences and the Law of Administrative Procedure. I'm really asking, if the Minister of Justice is still here, I'd like to hear his opinion, because it's completely foreign to me. I have to tell you, this is completely foreign to me. That's not what they taught me at the University of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u208	Anyone else? If you don't, I'm gonna finish this discussion. Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u209	In the debate, our amendment and colleague Anderlich proposed a completely different proposal for a decision. What are we discussing now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u210	We are discussing the amendment to Decision No 2. We'll decide that. We will vote first on the amendments, as they are in line, that is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u211	This means that this amendment has not been tabled, Comrade Anderlich, formally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u212	We are now discussing your amendment, Comrade Podobnik, on Decision No 2. We will vote in kind, as I said before, and finally on the text of the amended proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer to my colleague Lavrinz. Experience, the practice of such a solution is based on the German Public Tax Code. So it's German practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u214	Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u215	Yeah, no! Hold on, Mr. Squirrel. We have a general administrative procedure. That means there's only one procedure for everyone. And you're starting it all. Then we have a law on offences - you're also starting it. But you refer to the German Public Tax Code. That's another story. It's about someone being indebted to someone, and this "someone" is a country. But this isn't about what you're proposing, but it's actually about the whole thing. [[...]] So please, because the Minister is here if he can tell us what that means. First of all, I can't explain this with my jusa behavior, which I've been taught here in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u216	Does the Minister want a word? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u217	So if I wanted to follow such an amendment, it would require a very thorough study. That's the first thing I want to say. Second. In the case of obsolete periods relating to offences, since the above mentioned offences are mentioned here in the first paragraph, it must be said that the Act on Offences which enters into force from 1.1. the following year has introduced longer limitation periods, both relative and absolute. Second, it is also possible to set longer limitation periods in the field legislation. As far as I know, in some sectoral laws, particularly in the financial field, such deadlines exist. However, I cannot define myself until the deadlines of the administrative procedure law, because this is not my area and I really would not like to speculate in this area. It seems to me that the obsolete deadlines now set for most of the offences but allow them to be dealt with and, in view of their danger, to be detected as long as this period lasts and then properly sanctioned, particularly if we take this new offence law into account. The current situation may indeed be somewhat poor, and that is why we have gone into this extension, which already exists. For such a general extension or elimination of some outdated deadlines, such as administrative procedure, this would require serious examination. To the extent that this amendment is intended in this direction, such a study is, of course, always possible, whether we take a decision or not, at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u218	Good. Before we move on to the amendment decision, maybe it won't be too much to say again. If the completed proposal for conclusions, as adopted by the competent working body, were not to be amended, then they would decide on a further proposal for conclusions. As amendments have been tabled before the conclusion of the debate, we will decide on them. The amendments that will be adopted will be taken into account in the final vote on the draft decisions in full. My friend Rokavek wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u219	Just a brief colleague of Lavrinc's. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we cannot accept the fact that the actual prosecution of obvious offences would not be possible because of the statute of limitations. Morally, that's not acceptable. And in the LDS Group, if you have your own thinking in this sense, you will probably be ready to accept this proposal for a decision because it speaks of a study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u220	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In fact, I am thinking and voting on this amendment, but I would like to clarify if you did not, perhaps when you wrote this amendment, actually mean time limits in the criminal procedure, not in the legal procedure, because you are citing German legislation and might suggest that you listen to it. I expected the Minister to help explain this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u222	The debate on the amendment to Decision No 2 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party Group is closed. We will proceed to the decision on amendment to decision number two. Voice explanation, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u223	I will not support this amendment. In fact, they taught me something small about legal certainty, about the Institute of Obsolescence as some kind of civilisation institute, and so on. And, of course, that's why I can't accept the explanation that we witnessed. However, because I say, I think that if there is such a great desire in the SLS Group for such a study, they have a minister and with all the potential of the minister and their client potential, they can prepare this thing and give us time to study, that is to say, to other parties, and then, of course, they could make further decisions. That's not what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u224	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to making peace in the hall! [[...]] I ask that there be no misunderstandings in the decision-making process. Are your voting devices okay? We're going to make a decision! To clarify again, we are deciding on the amendment to Decision No 2 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're making a decision! 67 present, 25 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. The SLS Group, this is another document, the amendments to Decision No 2 and you have them in a document that is four pages long, 2.3 pages long, we get it and we decide in a row. So that there will be no misunderstandings, I will read the amendments, because they are not long, too. A new decision is added to the second decision, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall order the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to introduce, at formal and informal levels of education, the acquisition of skills and training for the greater functional literacy of citizens and citizens." Please, Comrade Petty Officer. The debate first on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u225	Just for a little while. It is clear from the rationale that we have come from international studies and also from some studies that are up to date and have shown that the functional literacy of citizens and citizens is too small. We've heard before that this amendment can be offensive. He's not insulting. In fact, this amendment is an investment forward and, in our view, it can be one of the good decisions of the National Assembly to show some interest in this debate, so that knowledge in this area can be increased within the framework of the Education Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u226	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u227	I'm simply not going to support this amendment because I don't understand it differently than it does from the National Assembly. I mean, I just can't be a part of this circus - non-passive: no! As it says here "formally or informally", I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u228	Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment. It is simply that in the third paragraph of the explanation a positive self-image of young people, whom I think are exhibiting sufficient abilities and readiness, as well as awareness, importance, knowledge. Finally, we were able to learn about how to increase functional literacy for the last time in the National Programme on Culture, and the measures are numerous, formal and informal forms of education for this, and I do not see any need to further spread the conclusion on this occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u230	We'll move on to a decision. The debate on the amendment is closed. We are voting on the amendment to Decision No 2 tabled by the SLS Group. This amendment has not been adopted, of 66 present, 17 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] This amendment has not been adopted. On the other hand, the amendments to Decision No 4 - Banka Slovenije should disclose, under the current legislation, data on SIB borrowers who have not paid all contractual obligations in full. Would anyone like a word to discuss the amendment? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I missed you. I'm sorry, Comrade Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u231	I would ask the bank's vice-governor to say once again whether it is possible to do so so that we do not vote on a decision that is illegal or even unconstitutional. Yeah, I already have, but despite everything, because we can't put something to the vote if it's obvious - that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u232	Please, Mr. Nučič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Maybe you remember. I explained earlier that the standard in Article 59, paragraph 3, point 4 of the Banking Act is very clear that the Bank of Slovenia will submit individual data to the Court if it needs them in the bankruptcy proceedings of the bank or in the other proceedings they conduct under their jurisdiction. Thus, such a decision, as proposed in the amendment, is in direct contravention of the law in force and I think that the matter is illegal or is not in conformity with the Banking Act and cannot be enforced without the court's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u234	The National Assembly will be defined by this amendment. Anyone else want a word in the debate? No, no, no. Then what? [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I don't have the authority to withdraw the amendment from the amendment review. [[...]] It must be decided by the National Assembly, knowing the arguments which have been clarified. It's not my jurisdiction to withdraw the amendments. Please. We vote on the amendment to Decision No 4 of the SLS Group. He wasn't accepted. 40 versus, 22 for 69. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] Amendment to Decision No 2. The RS Government should prepare a proposal for additions and amendments to the Consumer Credit Act, which will allow the supervision of companies providing consumer credit services to be transferred from the RS Market Inspectorate to the Bank of Slovenia, which should also become an institution to which these companies report on their business. I'm opening a debate. I'm shutting it down, and I'm moving on to a decision. We're voting. The proposal was not adopted. Of the 67 present 20 for and 40 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] Amendment to Decision No 2. It proposes to add a new paragraph to the second decision, which reads as follows, this paragraph is a long one. I only read them so there won't be any misunderstandings. I don't think you're in any danger right now. We know which amendment to decide. Anybody want to talk about him? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u235	I'll explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u236	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u237	I will not support this amendment, because I will not support that such a young country be declared incompetent, incompetent institutions and be searched by a foreign institution and probably even look at what are the secrets that are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u238	I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u239	No, I have explained my vote within the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u240	Yeah, yeah. I'll take that into account. Things are running really fast. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u241	And it is also likely that the data that we cannot get from citizens and citizens are of such a nature that it would also be wrong to be investigated by foreign institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u242	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We're at amendment to decision number two. On the other hand, we have a third-party review. 67 present, 22 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] He wasn't accepted. We have an amendment to Decision No. 2 on the third page of the review. This one's the only one on the third page. We can decide about him. We're voting. 68 present, 28 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] He wasn't accepted. And on the fourth page, we have the last amendment, the amendment to Decision No 2 of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting on him. 65 present, 27 for and 36 for. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. We now have before us the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia Group of Members. First, we have an amendment you have on one side. It is a proposal that the National Assembly should call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate the process of replacing the Attorney General as soon as possible. I'm opening a debate. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u243	Well, this proposal is based on the decision of last year's Finance Committee. The Finance Committee found that the Attorney-General's Office had not acted on the basis of the first application. This was a decision for which you also voted Members of the Liberal Democracy, but no action followed and we are now proposing this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u244	Please, buddy Kacin. Just a minute, buddy Kacin. I told my colleague Anderlich earlier, because the lady had seduced him into taking part in the debate, but he explained his voice that we should take 30 seconds into account. Please, Comrade Kacin, for a debate of 30 seconds and then an explanation of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I'm about to say is mortally serious, even though it may seem ridiculous. It simply follows the advice of the opposition and its champion, who has objections in many of the human resources proposals, that we are running out of office slowly and that we are setting people up at the end of the term, I will not support this proposal and I will not dismiss anyone before the end of the term. What we are doing now is literally a mockery of the National Assembly, and I really don't see any legal basis or moral or any legal argument to make fun of the institution we represent here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u246	Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u247	Well, I expect that then Mr Potočnik will not go to Brussels too - it is a shame to replace him as minister at the end of his term - and Mrs Petrinova will not go to The Hague, because you will have to find a new minister at the end of your term. But I'm still happy with your proposal, because at least it didn't have a threat of force. Finally, you threatened to stop us with force; this is a great advance now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u248	The debate is closed. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to decision 2 of the two parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. We're making a decision. 69 present, 28 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. Now you have the last document before you, with which we will decide on the amendments and then vote on the motion for decisions in full, as they were if they were amended. These decisions are also proposed to the two parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. We decide on the amendment to Decision No 6. 69 present, 30 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] The decision was not adopted. Amendment to Decision No 6. Sorry, if there is no I said, this is a document covering 4 pages, the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary group are making amendments. [[...]] Excuse me? Yes, these are the amendments to the Sixth Decision. Don't you have it in front of you? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But we'll read, because it's okay, it's okay, it's better that the question is sooner than later. [[...]] [[...]] At the end of the text of Decision 6 the text is added, which reads: "The Ministry of the Interior should explain by 31 March 2004 who those people from the police are, according to Director Orion Lujar, the party of Orion. Could it be the same persons who should investigate the suspicions of crimes in this company after the 1997 reports." Okay. This amendment to decision 6 will be decided. Pradon, I'm breaking up. Please, colleague Kelemin, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally appreciate that this proposal is extremely good and must be supported. This is because I actually find that a lot of things in this regard will not be resolved precisely because there is a yacht worth 300 million tolars around, and it is important to ask why a particular thing cannot be resolved because it is necessary to know and ask who is driving everything on this yacht. And I am firmly convinced that at least Mr Bohinec knows who was driving on this yacht, if he does not know, then ask the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, or someone even higher. Maybe Mr. Bandell knows who was driving this boat. Indeed, under such conditions, where things are as connected as they are with the transports on this yacht of important people from the LDS and the United List, things cannot be resolved. And this proposal is extremely important for these things to be resolved, so I propose that this proposal be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u250	Anybody else want to explain their voice? We're voting. Excuse me, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, there's been a similar philosophy all night. Someone sells some information to a journalist, such as Janez Janša, then of course a journalist, who is not obliged to tell who his source is, publishes it on some show, and then, of course, Janez Janša can also refer to this information he heard on television. It's a similar story here. And I must say, some of them are masters for this kind of behavior. Mr Kelemina, of course, does not count among them, definitely not, he does it differently. But I'm going to ask you something -- those who think like that and suggest to us what's forbidden. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u252	Explanation of vote, no [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u253	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm asking or I'm gonna ask you a rhetorical question. [[..]] So if, in your opinion, it is a crime for someone to ride with a yacht, and if, in your opinion, it is that the Ministry of the Interior will now clarify who are the ones that this Lužar, whom I do not know, has in mind, then, of course, the quiet soul will decide to leave to the police, to arrange these things for itself, and I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u254	Good. We explain the position, we don't argue. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This proposal by the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party is a copy of the 9th decision to convene an extraordinary meeting, to which Dr Darko Angel, Director-General of Police, replied in the form of a document received today by the Government and responded in detail, so of course I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u256	Anyone else raise their hand? Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u257	Of course, this decision will have to be supported, precisely because the government's answers do not fully answer the question. But it was only said that those who are now working specifically on Orion are not parties to Orion, but they do not know what is happening to those who were investigating in 1997. It was said that they didn't know, so to speak, it wasn't answered. But I have asked a question before, and this is also covered in this amendment, if not perhaps the heads of Orion's party, which would be more important than those who are actually working. Well, Mr. Lavrinc, I didn't tell the press, Mr. Lavrinc. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u258	Please. There's no controversy. There's an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u259	Yeah, I think it's more accurate than it was with the predecessor. But this information is that among Orion's customers there are also people from the police, said Mr Lujar, who gave them these credits - in an interview published in the Journal last week; that you will not claim that I whispered it to Mr Lužar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u260	Okay, we'll move on to a decision. Let me just remind you that we are on the amendment to decision 6, the amendments tabled by the two groups of Members. Explanation, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u261	I will support this decision, and I will also undermine this amendment, and I also recommend that others also do so. In particular, it is public knowledge that we have all been able to read, and whoever has not yet read it can do so by making the Director of Orion himself state what is said here. I can't understand that this national council doesn't want to know about this thing. We'll push our heads into the sand and it'll be nice again. However, Director Lujar will continue to laugh at us in a mustache. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u262	Please, you have the floor. Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u263	Look, I will not vote in favour of this decision, nor will I vote in favour of the following decisions, especially for one simple reason, I cannot take the decisions that are being made in explanation, "that according to the information given to members of the National Assembly by some citizens and by information from the media." I'm sorry, I don't know what media you're talking about, I don't know which citizens you're talking about. We, most, think at least on this side of this information [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u264	Order! Explanation of voice! My friend Marshich is the only one with a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u265	If so, we should present this with an explanation that we know what we are talking about. [[...]] We don't know what we're talking about. We're talking about the media. We're talking about something. If we had a signed statement here from someone who was behind it, it would be a completely different story.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u266	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] Now I'm going to go to the vote. We're making a decision! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We are at the amendment to decision 6, this is the amendment, which is at the bottom of page 1 and the beginning of page 2. 67 present, 29 for, 35 versus. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. Now we're at Amendment to Decision 6, this is on the other side. We're moving on to decision-making. Excuse me? Okay. At the end of the text of Decision 6 the text is added, which reads: "The Anti-Money Laundering Office should, by 31 March 2004, submit to the National Assembly official reports on when they first acquired documents which indicated the suspicion of crime in Orion and what had happened to them to date. We decide on this amendment. We're in the middle of a vote, please! 64 present, 28 for and 36 for. (For the vote was 28.)(against 36.) The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are at the amendment to Decision 6. "By 31 March 2004, the Director of the Tax Administration of RS shall submit to the National Assembly an official report on the review of all financial transactions and other business between Orion, Pay Consulting and the LDS political party and Secretary-General Gregor Golobic, former President of the Council of LDS Milet Šetinec and his companies Radio Antena and the Ljubljana Wave and LDS senior officials until the registration of companies to date." Please explain to the voice, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u267	Your Honor, the President! This is indeed a brilliant amendment, which, of course, needs to be supported. We've seen this before in history. See text: Official report, review of all financial transactions and other transactions, here it says "between Orion", otherwise it was written during the arms trade. We have been given precise information in the arms trade - but no, Mr Franz Kangler - about how much anti-supply, how much cash there were, how many accounts abroad, not once, but more times. We have also received all the complaints filed that have been filed in this case, and almost all these complaints have been carried out brilliantly and fine, then these conclusions were so that those who have not done fair legislation or who have moved any funds have already been condemned. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the first one, I would say that tonight we are attending an excellent performance of Andren Cesar's new clothes or the Slovenian Butale No. 2. I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u268	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u269	This play, of course, continues with the already well-known convictions of the basic public prosecutor's office in Kranj concerning Elan, where in one year and a half through two black accounts they had transactions over 271 million Marks, 271 million Marks, for which were two main actors, the Director and Finance Director Uroš Aljančič and Pavel Koder were sentenced for about five years and, of course, never served that sentence because Judge Šubič forgot to write the judgment for nine months. He wrote it only in December, and during this time the policy of the Liberal Democracy and the United List changed the penal code and the law on criminal procedure, just at a time when most of the complaints were just before they got the epilogue and, of course, reduced the limitation period from ten years to six years. No one's ever sat for that. However, those who have warned about this have already done so for the third time before Slovenian courts. This is the continuation of this corruption, which has been on the road since 1994, which has driven 100,000 people and is now out of jobs, today has wages of 60,000, 70,000 tolars, and today the Five Jurassic Militarily raises them up, and today 300 people from one and another factory are throwing again on the road. That's the sequel to your story.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u270	Comrade Kacin, did you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I do not intend to support this proposal, but before this happens, I would ask the government or government representatives - I do not know if it is a late hour or an early hour - I think I have heard in the course of the previous day that the report on this has already been made, that the data on the fact that these two people have nothing to do with it; we have and should have said so. But since it is a new day and a new hour, it might be good for the Secretary-General or the representative of Dursa to be reinstated for today and for this determination. I just want to hear an explanation as to whether I'm pale or whether it was said here yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u272	We're here to explain the voice. There's no more debate. Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u273	I'm in a dilemma, I'll tell you why. Look! It was said that the two who were deliberately attached here had nothing else to do with Greg's signing a contract, for example, for a car, just like the half-car that the client needed. And he signed it so long ago that no one knew there were any lumbars in Orion. But Janš's colleague suggested that because of the LDS's contract there, we also seduced those poor people who then thought, wait a little while, but if they make a deal there, then it's a serious company, and they can also do business with them. This was done - for the first time; and this is pure insinuation. Secondly, yesterday, as I said before, Janša was able to sell the following information to journalists that we voted against this proposal on purpose, because there are two of our own here. Do you know why we voted against it yesterday? Because you have inside a report that the government has given and we have received today, we also had it yesterday, as far as the jurisdiction and powers of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia are concerned. Any derogation from this rule, in particular in terms of checking the taxable persons according to their political affiliation, would constitute a derogation from the fundamental principle of equality. In short, we'd be breaking the law. And that's why yesterday, let's say, we voted against it, but today I will abstain - this will be the best - because I'm not afraid, but I know that Janša and his men will use it again if we finally squeezed them into as well as have to tell him what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u274	My friend Janš. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u275	And to let go of the nerves, Mr. Mohet's old traumas come on a day like Mr. Lavrinc's. This Decision is not simply proposed. It is not proposed because Mr Golobič, when he was secretary-general of the LDS, signed a contract for some car leasing for customers, but because the Liberal Democracy had a car from Orion which it paid or not, Passat WR6, No. This and this, registration number LJ 86 87, value 33 thousand 195 German marks. Mr Golobič had another car, Peugeot 806, rented 4.9.1996, etc. It's two things. It's a client who had a car for leasing, and he's got Mr. Golobič who had a car for leasing. Whether this was legal or not, I don't know, so I'm proposing a decision to check it out. If you vote against it and it's not checked, then there's gonna be a suspicion, and we didn't make it up. It's in the documentation that you have the authorities investigating.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u276	We're moving on to decision-making. The explanation for the voice is, I understand, exhausted. We're making a decision. 64 present, 29 for and 32 for. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 32.]] We're on page three. At the end of the text of Decision 6 the following text is added: "The Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit to the National Assembly by 31 March 2004 an official report on tax checks and other activities in Orion and Pay Consulting from the company registration to today". We're making a decision. 66 present, 28 for and 37 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are at the last amendment, in the amendment to Decision 6: "The Ministry of Justice should submit to the National Assembly by 31 March 2004 an official report on the measures taken to control notaries involved in financial transactions with SIB and Pay Consulting." Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I personally assess that this proposal needs to be supported. In fact, I had the opportunity to take a personal look at some of the contracts, precisely those fraudulent contracts that the notaries had drawn up, verified all the documents and eventually verified the whole document by which the poor parties who were probably in severe distress were borrowing loans under strange conditions. Apparently, the contracts weren't even read before them. They got home by mail. However, the contract states that the party is obliged - of course, at first they did not receive the amount for which they were orally agreed, but the contract states that they are owed 2.5 times or more than 2.5 times as much as the actual loan amounted to ten years. For ten years! In addition, a clause, special insurance in the event of a breach of this contract, is still around 30%, 28% of the commission on the total amount of the loan. So not what he actually got, but what's written in the contract is 2.5 times the actual takeover. If this is justified by notary ethics, legislation and so on and that notar verifys and thus cheats poor people, it is a great deal of shame or more. The Notary Chamber should act and take the license immediately to such notaries and never give them licences again, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u278	Please, Comrade Sok, then Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u279	Thank you very much. In all these votes on these amendments, it seems to me that, in fact, the situation that we have talked about on several occasions has been repeated in the Ljubljana City Council, when the city councillors refused to familiarise themselves with the SIB State Report. It's the same today. Of course, I can conclude from this that things are not clean, because if they were clean, then at least the previous decision, which speaks of Golobic and Hetinac, could support the peaceful souls and prove to the opposition once and for all that these matters are in fact what you claim. But because they didn't, you voted against the amendment. I hope that you will support at least this amendment, which speaks of making a report on the notaries who have helped and participated in this impropriety. It's obvious that Lepša was involved in this. And many farmers were injured. Otherwise, today we were unable to figure out how many of these injured people there are, I guess this will only be found later, but, for God's sake, please support at least this amendment to review the operation of these notaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u280	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u281	Thank you. Yeah, like I said before, I'd do it now. And if you can afford to comment on what I think, don't imagine that God knows what's in my soul; far from that, my wife doesn't know - that she says that I have, because of this kind of trauma. Mr Janša, I don't have any injuries, I'm just an ordinary man like you, and I'm curious, Mr Janša, where is this cash? This is as an elected representative of all people. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's right. We're not here, I'd say, excuse the expression, beans, so we can't ask these things and get a full answer to these things. In mathematics, we are used to patient work, long work, and in the end we always get a solution to the problem, the problem can be solved with an enco or can be solved with a zero; this means that we have done everything for free, but when you get to one knowledge, then you have the truth in your hand and then you live easier. It seems to me that it would be very good for all of us in here, for all the parties, to come to an end, and for me to thank Mr Jerovšk very much that he is working intensively on his committee for the implementation of the last decision of the National Assembly. I'm not voting for this amendment that's here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u282	Anyone else raise their hand? Yes, Comrade Janša. Just please, this is the explanation for the vote, and colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u283	Good morning, Mr. President. But what did Mr. Moze do before - or did he explain his voice? We don't even know how he's gonna vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u284	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u285	Well, you vote against everything, so it's not a dilemma. Mr. Mogue, as far as your trauma is concerned. Collect signatures for the extraordinary session on armament of Slovenia, on weapons, on anything, give an address for me, on the hang of John Jaše, I will sign this reference. Let's make this debate, I am happy to defend everything that is being done about it. I doubt, however, that you and your option will be able to explain, from where 130 tons of weapons at the Maribor airport in the arrangement of Mr Cengić, who is on international terrors in connection with Alkaida. I doubt you'll explain why you left him at that time, because of his testimony to your commission - or then to Madonna - you left the pursuit of this weapon at the Maribor airport. I am very interested in how you will explain this in public session before the international public. I'm ready to explain, just like I explained everything. There is a report, which, while confidential, as far as I'm concerned, can be public, I have no problem with it. Besides, when you're waving something around all the time, file criminal charges, because you owe me a charge if you think I've done something wrong! Mr. Lavrinz, you're a lawyer, press charges, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u286	Peace. There's no controversy in the bench. I'm also a colleague of Jerovšek's. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I was apostrophated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u288	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u289	And I have to say, I was shaken up in the hallway, I don't know how I got here right now, but it looks like some trauma woke up at this hour. I hope, it seems to Mr Mohet, that the Commission of Inquiry has not led to the conclusion of the report, but only with an interim report, that it is still operating in this mandate. I have repeatedly suggested why not, if this trauma is working, why not propose an investigative commission when it was time, I would gladly support it. However, I cannot support and resist the fact that some of the intelligence monitoring committees have been abused by some of them for investigative commissions. That's why I'm gonna - I mean, not that. I will support this decision. However, I would also like to support the support of my colleague Mojet if such conclusions are ever to lead to anything from the other end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u290	Comrade Kangler, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u291	I have no doubt, it is not necessary for you, Madam President, to explain your vote. Although all my predecessors have abused the rules of procedure quietly or in the morning, I myself have once been appointed in some arms cases, but I would still say that I do not see any fears and trauma if we support this decision, which speaks of the fact that the Ministry of Justice should forward its official report on the measures taken to control notaries. I do not know what the problem is, given that the Ministry of Justice in the report submitted by the Government to us Members is also seeking to amend the Notariat Act, and I do not think there will be any problems if we get such a report. It is true, however, that in one of the discussions earlier, one gentleman, my fellow Member disturbed me in my performance, but I wanted to point out that there were some transactions in the SIB bank that served some arms dealers and that the money was actually kept there for a maximum of half an hour and that there were such transactions. However, at this particular moment, I cannot judge who - whether it is the left or the right - carried out such and different accounts. It may be sad that after ten or six years, or seven years, we are discussing in the National Assembly such traumas or controversy, but that the authorities, such as persecution, inspection and all others, have not done their work and have somehow cleared up these doubts or concerns in this young country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u292	Good. Anyone else want a word? If we don't, we'll move on to a decision. We are at the amendment to decision 6, this is the one that begins: "The Ministry of Justice should have it by 31 March..." and so on. That's the text. We're making a decision. We're voting. 64 present, 29 for and 32 for. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 32.]] This proposal has not been adopted. We are now in the final amendment to decision 6 on the third and fourth pages: "The Ministry of Economy, the Republic Market Inspectorate, the Office of Consumer Protection to the National Assembly by 31 March 2004 to submit an official report on the management of Orion and Pay Consulting's operations." We can decide. My colleague Mogo, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u293	Of course I'll support this amendment. I mean, given that I was mentioned again after innocently, my colleague Janša could ask his colleague Brejc, who then led the VIS, where the secret fund was, what was going on there, where those things were going. And, colleague Janš, I don't always let my wife tell me what to do. I thank you for your advice, not to tell me, give me these and I'll do these things. It seems to me that this National Assembly is mature enough to see the outcome of this report. And I didn't ask you why you didn't go completely to the end of these things when you called the press conferences, but you stopped at the counters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u294	Anyone else want a word? Please, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u295	These explanations to the vote, Mr President, are very unusual and allow me to afford them. I am very interested in the fact that we still do not have a staff member in the European Parliament, or I will support this decision. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u296	Good. I can ask for peace in the hall so there won't be any misunderstandings. We are at the last of the amendments, from the amendments that are written in this document by two groups of Members. We're making a decision! 67 present, 29 for, 37 versus. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment was not accepted. I've got two more amendments ahead of me. They are submitted by the LDS Club to the 6th and 7th Decisions. Excuse me? I'll read it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You don't? Then I'll wait for them to reproduce. I'm taking a break until I'm informed that the amendments are split. I'm sure it won't take more than 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u297	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. The material shall be divided into benches so that the conditions for the completion of the meeting are enabled. Please take your seats. Colleagues and colleagues, you have before you the amendment to Decision No. 6, which we will first discuss and decide, and then the amendment to Decision No. 7. The debate shall continue. Could you please take your seats? Then we have an amendment to the 7th. If adopted, the texts of the 6th and 7th Decisions will be replaced by the additional draft Decisions. In this case, I will then lead the decision by deciding on points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the first five. It will then be clear what the National Assembly has taken as its conclusions for discussion. First of all, we have an amendment to Decision No 6, tabled by the LDS Members' Club. It reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has examined all reports of State institutions and public function holders relating to the sale of SIBs received by 2.3.2004." Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. Are we talking about the amendment to the Sixth Decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u299	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u300	Of course, I will not support this amendment because it is already widely known that the National Assembly has become aware of what the government and the competent institutions have informed the National Assembly. And I think that writing this down in the proposals for conclusions makes no sense. In addition, when we discuss the next amendment, we will also find that such a clear amendment, which has also followed the debates, even in the debates on the amendments to the proposed decisions, does not set any time limits for the government to report to the National Assembly, what measures will actually be taken - as we have always been used to. We don't need these conclusions, and of course I won't support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u301	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u302	Yeah, as it's written down, it's true. But it probably wasn't that meaningful, because it says that we've dealt with everything we've got until 2.3, so to this day, to the beginning of the day or to the end of yesterday, yes, when the meeting started. What we got yesterday when the meeting started, we didn't consider it. Let the one who read this raise his hand, what we got yesterday at the full session. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u303	An explanation of the voice, please, for peace in the hall! My friend Janš has one word. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u304	Congratulations to all those who have raised their hand. I didn't know they taught fast reading at lithostrotic schools, that was great. I have to say, some of them are geniuses. However, we have certainly not considered this, whether Mr Anderlich has read it or not. This material, which was distributed after 2.3, is not included in this Decision. If you think it belongs, you need to correct the proposal. As noted earlier, what we received at this meeting was not studied in such a way that it could be done. When we read and study this, I will decide how we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u305	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u306	I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision because we took this meeting seriously and we also thought that, with the proposal of the material that you submitted and with the proposal of the conclusions, you would think that you would obtain those reports that you have written there. We have already reached this meeting and representatives of the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and other institutions have all explained these reports, answered questions that have been raised further in the debate. If there was any need to discuss these reports later in order to obtain further clarifications, this would probably be put to government representatives in the debate. I have no doubt, however, that in further activities, when that decision or proposal for a decision to replace the seventh decision is, however, explaining how activities are to be carried out, there will be a number of other things that have not been explained through these reports which are to be received, also clear. And that's what extraordinary meetings are all about. You prepare the material, you demand some of the institutions, you prepare proposals for conclusions, and unfortunately or fortunately - I think that this is where the government needs to be commended - it has managed to provide all the proposed conclusions with the answers in writing that you have provided as such. I don't know why we'd be setting dates here on 31.03. But if we got that on the table on 02.03. And I propose only that it be determined, of course, that this State Assembly has received, dealt with and that, with this title, there can be no further questions as to whether or not the State Assembly has received the report. However, if you are not satisfied with the reports, I have no doubt that a number of discussions will follow in the coming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u307	We decide on the amendment to the conclusion. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u308	Now, I doubt that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u309	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u310	I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u311	Before that, there was a debate, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u312	or the proposer, whatever you want. [[...]] Now what the Liberal Democracy wants with this amendment, which is written differently than they obviously thought, as Mr Anderlich has said now, but so it is. It replaces the entire sixth decision of the Finance Committee. Or completely destroy it, as if everything had been done, but of course everything had not been done. It wasn't all done. So far from what has been said before, we are all committed to exploring something. Here he wants to vote on the conclusion that we have already received all of this, discussed it and that the matter is closed. Of course that's not true. Of course not. What you're suggesting is that you're working in a direction that doesn't explore anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u313	We decide on the amendment to Decision No 6 tabled by the LDS. We're voting. 64 present, 39 for and 25 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 25.]] The decision is adopted. Amendment to the 7th Decision. It also proposes that the text be amended to read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything to strengthen the activities of investigating the suspicion of irregularities in the operation and sale of SIB and the operation of Orion and associated companies with citizens, in particular the coordinated functioning of the RS State Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, the police of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration of RS, the Ministry of Finance, the foreign exchange inspectorate of RS, the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Ministry of Economy, the market inspectorate of RS, and to report to the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government to initiate all necessary legislative changes as soon as possible to prevent similar business irregularities." Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u314	Therefore, the proposers of this amendment had previously rejected any conclusions which had a specific activity or a concrete measure from individual institutions after the running tape with the voting machine. Now he's proposing an amendment that says the National Assembly is calling on the government to do everything. Nothing at all in this case. It's completely imprecise. How, though, will you see if everything has been done? So, tell me what "all" is. Tell me what "everything" is in this case. How do you see if any of this "all" was done? So, this is total nonsense in the linguistic sense, in the substantive sense. Of course, the only purpose of this is not to do anything because it is completely uncheckable. In addition, we have always listened to government representatives that they are already doing "everything". Didn't you tell your colleague over there that you were sitting in the government benches that you did "everything in your power?" And here, colleagues from the same parties are asking you to do "everything". [[...]] [[Laugh.]] What's the difference between "everything" you've made and "everything" you're supposed to do now after this call? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u315	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u316	There's a big difference between these two joints. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u317	Explanation of voice. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u318	I'll explain my voice. I'll explain my voice, Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u319	The debate is closed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u320	That's not true, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u321	Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, We are at the amendment to the 7th Decision and [[...]] [[The feedback from the bench.]] No, no, no. Wait a minute. If there is no further debate, I will give the floor to explain my vote and my colleague Anderlič has the right to explain his vote. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u322	The difference between this proposal for a decision and those previously submitted is that we do not want to prejudge and we do not know as much about individual operations as anyone else. That is why we want the authorities empowered to do everything in accordance with the laws - as soon as possible - and to report to the National Assembly. However, if anyone knows more about any matter but is obliged by official duty, especially if it is a criminal act and any act against the law, he is obliged to tell the person involved himself, that it be the police, that is, the other authorities with legal powers. That is why we want all these bodies to strengthen this activity under the law and to report this to the National Assembly, as they reported on all the activities carried out within the framework of the institutions - that is, according to the reports you asked and received this last report yesterday. Otherwise, in the National Assembly, we believe that it is impossible to discuss and work qualitatively. However, as for the second decision, we are prepared to adopt all the legislative measures and other acts that Members will most likely propose and address any problems with the legal and other regulatory arrangements as soon as they are submitted. And here's some lapsus, if deleted "as soon as possible," the text would be nicer, but I don't know if it can be fixed now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u323	This, if you want, can be taken into account. Comrade Janš, explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u324	No, no, no. I did not hear that the debate would be closed. We still have time to propose and I'd like to speak for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u325	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u326	Look. We have very poor experience, Mr Anderlich, with the reports we give directly. You said you were obliged to give. In 2002, we put our world team at all the addresses. Those who were smarter said that they were not competent did not say that they were not suspected of crimes, but that they were not competent. They said we had a bunch of letters. However, those who should act are said to be the State Prosecutor's Office, but have lost these applications. So, if you guarantee anything will happen to these, maybe we'll give some more. Before that, we would like to see those who have been invested two years ago, but they are not yet. So, it has not been answered now, and the applicant has not answered what should be done in practice and how this will be checked. The fact that activities are being strengthened - I'm sorry. How are you going to measure this reinforcement? How will this be checked by the National Assembly to see if everything has been done to strengthen the activities? Will you weigh criminals after they've stepped up or what? In short, it's totally ridiculous, and I'm really asking that we don't laugh about it. The conclusions which were rejected were concrete. You practically voted like a colleague of Črnugljeva when she voted against the circumstances of the purchase of the SIB bank in her previous reference to the City Council. Today, she said she was naive, but voted for similar conclusions again, and everyone else. In short, you are voting against concrete decisions, but you are proposing general ones that mean nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u327	Comrade Shirtz, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u328	Of course, I will support this proposal because I understand it already in the sense that I have presented it in the debate itself. In my discussion, however, I said that the briefings we had received at this meeting had provided us with an overview of the current situation. And in this situation, not only on my part, but also on my part, it has been repeatedly pointed out that activities or flexibility, responsiveness, speed in solving the problem have diminished. And I understand this decision - and I also want it - as a strengthening of all activities. At the same time, I must also point out that today, four times in this National Assembly, and this moment also by Mr Janša, an event was presented at the meeting on 21.1.2001 in the City Council, when the decision to take note of the vote on the situation of the purchase of SIB was rejected. However, I have to correct it, regardless of whether I was not a member of the Council myself, but at this meeting I have to deny the four times allegations of today. [[...]] There was no vote in this meeting on the purchase of the SIB. It was the 6th item attended by members of the MOL Supervisory Committee, Director of Energy, Procurator, President of Holding, Director of SIB, Lawyer of Senica, President of NO SIB etc. and were aware of the situation regarding the purchase of SIB and the reasons for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u329	Colleague of Montenegro, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u330	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour, not because I would be naive, but because I realize that some five meetings are not enough to understand one thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u331	You had a procedural proposal, Comrade Jerovšek? [[No, no, ……]] Good. Please, colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u332	I will vote for the amendment. Of course, the word "all" has at least four Slovak meanings. In this context, I understand it by calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take measures to implement what is being done in the words "all" and "all things continue". This is exactly what I expect the government to do about these things. However, how measures are measured and it is also known that we have indicators for this, and we have other measurable things to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u333	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u334	Thank you very much. I will vote against this proposal. This explanation, which of the four "all" is now true, unfortunately the colleague of Potace has already spent time and cannot explain to me what "all" is but what the government has been doing. So we'll just wait for the next extraordinary session when we find out what "everything" is. Above all, we have this experience, as we have already heard, the experience of what the government is actually doing when a concrete complaint has been presented, how they have decided. Some really wrote "we're not decent," others lost. However, thirds who did indeed do so, as we have heard, for example, a representative of the Anti-Corruption Office, and those who have prepared reports which this National Assembly does not want to hear, do not want to accept. You also said to the Finance Board, "We don't want to know, we don't want to know." Yeah, well, that's already sick - we don't want to know. If anything is written about this meeting, it will be that the great coalition has decided, "We don't want to know, do everything!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u335	Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u336	Well, I can't support this because paragraphs 1 and 2 are actually very connected and it's to understand the word in paragraph 1 to do everything - it can be understood to do what is then in paragraph 2. The thing is so confusedly written, I don't think it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to make such an awkward decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u337	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u338	The incredible sensitivity to the Slovenian language that I am witnessing to her also somehow points me to the fact that I do not really understand the Slovenian Coalition, that it does not want to explore everything. I really don't get it. The fact is that neither the government nor the police, in fact, no one is obliged to explore just a few things now, what you wanted, but we are imposing on them that they must explore everything. I am confident that your proposals will also be taken into account in this regard and that we will also be able to hear the opinion of these competent authorities on these matters, so that we will receive them. I think there's still something to support the decision, even though it might be better to write it. But for example, it's an early morning hour and it'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u339	My friend Janš, you've already explained your voice. My friend Kelemin. Excuse me? [[...]] No, no, you explained the voice, at least that's how I wrote it down. Please, my friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Respectable. I certainly advocate that everything really be clarified and that everything and so forth be determined and that everything is clear. But look at just one example to clarify everything that happened to the Schuštar affair. And if you believe me or not, when this affair started, I was the one who was predicting the scenario of what was going to happen. I told the following to myself and to some of my colleagues, I didn't tell the press. This will all end by letting Mr Šuštar be finally forgiven, and of course all his fellow workers along with the whole species, and a whole range of those who have not been contacted, and I can tell you the names now because I know them because I happen to know the names that were still there, but they have never been dealt with. So, it will be forgiven, the state will pay, even if a 100 million compensation is needed to him and all the others who were of course involved, only because the Slovenian people and the foreign authorities show that there is no corruption in Slovenia. This is the fundamental pillar of this process. I'll definitely tell you. And that's all that's going to be explored in this country, that's all. In fact, if we continue with such a system of work, then everything else will also be explored in the affair of SIB, Orion, Pay Consulting and so on. In short, there will be absolutely nothing to explore. Then who will be responsible for all of this? Just one: the political parties who have power, no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u341	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Now that no amendment proposed by the Slovenian Coalition has been accepted, it is clear that everything means everything, just not what we have proposed. This is as far as the first paragraph of this amendment is concerned. In the second paragraph you write that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia initiates all activities as soon as possible. This means that what the government has previously said has already begun activities to amend legislation, that it has not actually begun this and that you are calling for it to start as soon as possible. It is said that, as soon as possible, tomorrow, or tomorrow or, I don't know, one year from now, or that Mr Anderlič was inspired by Mr Mohet, who spoke earlier about weapons.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u343	Please, Comrade Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u344	Thank you. I will be most pleased to support this amendment, just because the word "everything" at least so I understand that everything, including the arms trade, will be explored.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u345	We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment to the 7th decision. Please, peace in the hall! 61 in attendance, 38 in and 17 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 17.]] This Decision is now fully adopted. From the first to the fifth pages of the Committee's report, as stated in the report on the ninth and tenth pages of the Committee's report, you have written conclusions on the ninth and tenth pages of the Committee's report as a complementary proposal from one to five, and we will now decide on the fifth. The sixth and seventh amendments were adopted. We vote on the decision under order number one. 63 present, 25 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the decision under order number 2. 62 present, 26 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment was not accepted. On the decision under order number 3. We're voting. 65 present, 25 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. We vote on the decision under order number 4. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 22 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. And the last one, the fifth decision, is up to us. This decision will close the point. Then my friend Kelem wants a word. 61 in attendance, 22 in and 38 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] My colleague Kelemin wishes to inform the members of the investigative commission of tomorrow's work plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and members of the investigative power commission would like to ask and suggest that we start tomorrow at 10 o'clock, not 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-02-SDZ3-Izredna-41.ana.u347	I hereby conclude today's work with this notification from my colleague Kelemina.
