ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Franc Čebulj, Andrei Fabjan, Ferry Horvat, Victory Jelinčič, Branko Kelemina, Bojan Kontic, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec from 13:00 onwards, Franz Pukšič from 13:00 onwards, Majda Širca. Today we will begin the third reading of the 18th item. The 18th item of the agenda is the draft law on amendments and additions to the consumer protection law, an urgent procedure. We have two documents, two papers on which these amendments are written. We have the amendments to Articles 2 and 5. We have one amendment to Article 2 and two amendments to Article 5. Please, if you could take a look, these documents are on the bench. Both have the date of 22.04. and this is the amendment of the LDS, United Letter and DeSUS to Articles 2 and 5 and the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 5 of this Act. We will also start with this point because the report on the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the energy law has not yet been prepared or is being copied. So we could do this at the time, and then we'd go to energy law. If there are no specific objections, then in the third reading we would first discuss the amendments that I have just reported. And I ask, who wants the word to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2? It is therefore an amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, paragraph 2. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Nobody. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Thank you very much. This amendment would have fixed that thing yesterday, and I'm just asking for the support of these amendments. Article 5 of the amendment of the LDS, the United List and DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u3	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No one else. I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 2. Can we get to the vote? Would you please see if the cards are filed so we're not going to be So? [[...]] Is everything okay? Can we vote? Let's vote, please! Apparently, we're not enough in the hall or you haven't all voted. Let's see how many of us there are. Please, if there's anyone near the hall to join us because we're too few. 44 of us so far. We'll vote next time, please, another time. Let's vote! There are 48 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 5 and both amendments to Article 5. As I have already said, the amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. They're shutting down. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Nobody. Can this mean that I can conclude the debate? Yeah. I'm closing the debate. We will first vote on the amendment of New Slovenia. If this is accepted, of course, the second amendment is irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of New Slovenia. Please, let's vote! Of the 46 present, 14 Members and Members voted against 29. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on the amendment to Article 5 of the LDS, the United List and the DeSUS. Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 37 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We have thus concluded the vote or the decision on the amendments. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. Do you have a compliance amendment? I wasn't informed about that. Just a moment, please. I am informed that the Government has tabled the harmonisation amendments and I give the floor to the government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u4	In accordance with Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government notes that the amendments are adopted by Article 17 and Article 18 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. The individual provisions of this bill and thus the consumer protection law are not aligned with the offence law, so we propose an amendment to Article 17a, which adds Article 17a to Article 17a, which reads as follows: The proviso of Article 78(1) shall be amended to read as follows: "A single trader shall be punished for a misdemeanour of a fine of 200,000 tolars which shall be recovered immediately at the place of the offence, and a legal person shall be punished by a fine of 300,000 tolars which shall be recovered immediately if....", a double, the end of the amendment and the second paragraph of Article 78 shall be amended to read as follows: "With a fine of 100,000 tolars the offence shall be punished by the person responsible or the responsible person of the individual undertaking if he commits the offence referred to in the preceding paragraph." The third paragraph of Article 78 is deleted. In the second paragraph of Article 18, the words 'and 17a of Article' shall be added after the word 'Article'.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate on the harmonisation amendment for Article 17th. You got the material on the bench last night. Both harmonisation amendments were tabled after second reading. Since it was clear after second reading that there was a lack of consistency, it cannot be carried out in third. So, please, who wants a word? Nobody, then I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment for Article 17a. We're voting, please. Of the 46 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has been adopted. There is now a harmonisation amendment to Article 18, which is of course purely editorial in nature. Who wants a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 18. We're voting, please. We weren't close enough, or I was too fast. So, please, for the second time, we are voting on the harmonisation amendment to Article 18. We're voting, please. Of the 48 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, we can now vote on the bill as a whole. So we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government. Now it is the turn of the proposal for a law on amendments to the energy law, necessary procedure. That's eight. Agenda item The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Let me also warn you before I give my word to the government representative that the material is in copying. He'll be on the tables any minute, but he's not. So I propose that, as rational as possible, we begin with these introductory words. Then, if there's no material, we're just gonna have to wait a little bit. We're gonna take a break. If that's what you want? Thank you. Then I give my word to the representative of the government. Mr. Secretary Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The draft law, which, as far as the articles are concerned, is somewhat broader, follows or summarises mainly in its entire text only two new directives that have emerged since the adoption of the current energy law in 1999 and to date. Therefore, without further ado, it is part of the package of so-called European legislation. What are these two directives? They're important to all of us. The first is the electricity market directive. Under this Directive, a 100% market will have to be opened for all, except for household customers, from 1.7 this year. So on 1 July this year it will suddenly have, now we have 9000 eligible customers, these are the larger consumers who can negotiate with the supplier themselves about the price, quantity and so on, with 1 July this year this option arises or this option opens up for the new 70 000 electricity consumers in Slovenia. For households, this option is open 1.7. 2007, this is in line with the directive, which in fact needs to be taken as some kind of protection for households against the full opening of the market, because it takes some time to adjust. Another important innovation brought by this Directive and thus introduced by this law is that transmission network operators must be functionally separated from other activities - this is Eles, we have already done so - and distribution network operators must be functionally separated from other activities by 1.7.2007. This obligation is new and is recorded in the novelty. This means that the electricity distribution companies will have to [[There are five of them in Slovenia]] Formally separate, they will have to formally separate the distribution part from the remaining activities; in particular, the remaining activity is the electricity trade. So, we're gonna have to make separate legal entities. In the government, we will make sure that we do this much earlier, if possible, this year, so that we do not wait until 1.7.2007. The novelty brought by law and also following the directive is the possibility of calls for new capacities for electricity production if supply stability is threatened. This novelty was introduced into the directive by the European Union on the basis of experience from California, where the energy crisis began due to under-production and over-expenditure. Therefore, both the directive and now the amendment of the law also provides incentives for the country to invest in production if the government considers that supply stability is at risk. Of course, we are not in this situation at all now, but it is written just in case. The novelty brought by the law and is important, as well as the follow-up to the directive, is that the State may impose an obligation on operators, i.e. electricity distribution companies, as well as the gas network operator, namely Geoplin, to invest in the network if it assesses that these investments are too small. This is a novelty that may be a bit unusual for the market economy, but the European Union has estimated that it is a natural monopoly, which, if it is privately owned - and with us, for example, Geoplin is mostly privately owned - then it can primarily take care of its profits, but not for the necessary investments in the network, and that is why the country now has or will have the opportunity to order certain investments. Even greater news is being brought by law in the field of gas trade. This novelty was introduced into European Union law by a directive on the natural gas market adopted last year, which provides for regulated access. Access to the gas network will therefore no longer be negotiated, but will be regulated, it is transparent. This means that the price list for access to the gas network is published in advance, which does not depend on the negotiation with the owner of the gas network, for example with Geoplin. So far, different companies, different users or customers of gas, have had very different prices for this access. Then Geoplin will have to publish a price list for access to the network in advance and will be known to everyone. Another important news is that the gas network system operator must be functionally separated. Therefore, legal and organisational as well as functional separation from market activities will have to be carried out. This means that Geoplin will have to be divided into two legal entities, one that will deal with trade, and one that will be the owner and manager of the network. New, an important novelty for all gas users is that the transmission network owner can refuse access to the network only if it does not really have capacity, but does not, by its own will as an infrastructure, actually prevent access to distort or reduce competition. Also in gas, market liberalisation is ordered under the Directive and following this amendment and after 1 July of this year, the market for all consumers is open except for households. So far, those who had access to the free market in Slovenia, the 10 largest gas consumers: Paloma, Brestanica Thermoelectrica and so on, were 10, after 1 July this year there will be 8000, that is to say all slightly larger gas customers other than households, and this will have access to the open market from 1 July 2007. An important novelty brought by law or an important principle brought by law is, but this is not directly stated in the directive, it is our upgrade that it is the right of the customer to be a right and not duty, which means that it must benefit you, to the extent that you find a more appropriate, cheaper, better supplier, of course, to move to it, otherwise you will remain in the process of reaching out under the conditions so far. We have also arranged for the so-called social wearout or the ban on electrical power cuts in the event of major social pressures, especially during the winter period, which is in fact a type of consumer protection and is a social component that the directive does not require directly, but we believe that it is appropriate, and of course it is also regulated to compensate for the costs in such a case. The bill contains some other minor amendments to the existing law, which have proven necessary in the opposite. We define the Energy Agency as a public agency under the Public Agency Act. In 1999, when it was written in the law, there was no law on public agencies, so all the organisational provisions had to be written separately, but now we have said, we already have a system law and therefore the status of it is regulated as for all other public agencies, and some minor innovations, which have proved to be less important in practice as necessary. I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! At the three sessions of the 55th meeting on 21 and 22 April, the Infrastructure Committee held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law sent by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it and to adopt it as a matter of urgency. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the warnings in its opinion and commented on Article 44 of the proposed law. In its opinion, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development drew attention to the definition of the terms of household, tariff, eligible customers in Article 1. It drew attention to the vague definition in Article 34 as regards prices, to the legal basis for carrying out the classification procedures on immovable property in Article 42 and to the solution in Article 80 of the Act. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. He also accepted 40 and 42 of his amendments. Amendments tabled by Members Branko Janc, Zoran Gračner, Aurelio Juri, LDS Member Club and the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. The Committee adopted a number of amendments to eligible applicants. As I said, he also adopted 42 of his amendments, which are under review. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them and proposed to the National Assembly that the proposed law, together with the amendments, should also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Dear President! Dear Mr. Secretary and co-workers! As we have already said several times in these days, I must also begin this opening presentation today with the fact that, in situations like these now in this national assembly, it is simply not possible to adopt good and quality laws. Look, when the point started, we got a hard report on the table half a kilo, 64 pages, and now let Members decide on it. We in New Slovenia have actually resisted in such a way that we have obstructed the meeting of the committee, we have not wanted to participate in such a way of working, and we will vote against this law today. Under the cover of the adaptation of energy legislation, EU legislation is proposed to make major changes that have not been made, at least not here in the National Assembly, sufficiently debated and thoroughly presented. This is a new definition of public services in the field of electricity supply to tariff customers and in general a new organisation of the energy market. This law increases the powers of the Energy Agency. We do not know whether all these powers given to this agency are good, but at the same time all the powers of governments in this area are maintained, so that we will now have some duality in this area, I would say, in the enforcement of this law or in the regulation of this area. Thus, in Article 45, I do not know if there is any difference in the report now, but it is literally written: the general conditions for the supply and disposal of electricity from the transmission and distribution network and natural gas from the transmission network shall be adopted by the system operator with the agreement of the Energy and Government Agency. So, until now, all he needed was the government's agreement, and the new one would have to have the agency's consent. Of course, why such a duality is necessary in this area is not clear. If not, you will not do what you have written in your coalition contract, that the ruling coalition will reduce bureaucracy or that you will carry out an anti-biocratic programme, because by doing so and by doing so, you are actually increasing bureaucracy. In New Slovenia we are certainly in favour of opening the market with electricity and natural gas, but, as I have already said, we should take such decisions more carefully and over a longer period of time. There was no real debate about the share of the privatisation of the distribution network infrastructure or why privatisation in new investments should be allowed only up to 25%. If you look at the explanation in the report in a comparative way, how this is regulated in neighbouring countries, it is not actually shown anywhere. From the Rapporteur, the only thing I can say about the comparative presentation is this: 'As the content of the proposed law is related to compliance with the European acquis to be implemented by all Member States of the European Union, this area will be uniformly regulated by the Member States and will not deviate from the guidelines set out in the above-mentioned Directives. This is particularly important in order to establish an internal market in electricity and natural gas, and therefore a single regulation is essential both for the competitiveness of the European economy and for the position of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, followed by the text of the proposed law." And then it says, "Because both amendments to the Directives have not yet been fully established in the legal order of the Member States of the European Union, it is not yet available with comparative data." So, you're telling us that we have to accept this by 1 May, so the only criterion is this deadline, and then you can easily admit and write that these directives have not yet been fully established in the legal order of the countries that are already members of the European Union. What's the point of taking this stuff into the National Assembly? Let me finish because I'm running out of time. It is also interesting to note the government's finding on page 7 that, after the establishment of the single European market, the price of energy, electricity, will be reduced by 16% in Finland and 13% in Sweden. I hope to announce from this city today that this will not be the case in Slovenia. This government, which we currently have and which is raping us with such legislation, will take advantage of all the options, anything that is possible not to lower the price, but to remain the same. We will not support this bill. There was simply no opportunity or opportunity for us to participate constructively in the formation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Franz Lenko, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a new law amending and supplementing the energy law is mainly adopted in the light of the new European directives replacing the existing European Union legislation. They create new common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas. This continues the establishment of an internal market, which started years ago and has proved to be extremely positive, both in terms of the competitiveness of the European economy and in terms of individual citizens. In all countries of the European Union, eligible customers will also become domestic customers in the coming period, which means that, like industrial ones, they will have the right to choose their own electricity supplier. Consumers will be able to choose their suppliers throughout the common European market. It is therefore essential that the law be more focused on consumer protection, which, according to the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, is satisfactorily addressed by provisions which provide the customer with access to the network, which is, and will be, in the future, likely to be, monopolistic. Results in the European Union have shown that market opening also means lower prices. Of course, a low price does not mean much unless energy quality is guaranteed. Therefore, standards must also be high enough. Some may fear that the liberalisation of the common market and the pressure to reduce costs will reduce security of supply. The universal rule is that electricity is provided to all household users at appropriate low prices. In addition, European Community law has provided additional mechanisms to ensure that this will not happen. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we ask ourselves whether the law is effective enough to protect socially disadvantaged persons effectively. With the adoption of the New Energy Law, the Energy Agency will have much more responsibility, which now has the role of market regulator or to ensure that natural monopolistic transmission and distribution activities carry out their task at a regulated price. Since the Agency will adapt to the public agency system and will have the task of overseeing the functioning of the energy market, by which the Agency will acquire most new and broader powers, we believe that these powers and control mechanisms need to be precisely defined in the DeSUS Group. The novelty of the energy law is once again one of those we adopt to ease the European Union's legislation. Although it seems to us in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group that sometimes the European Union's legal order is just an excuse for other changes, sometimes the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia has doubled due to all these fast-adopted laws without any selectivity of repealing the old provisions. In the DeSUS Group, we are taking on an emergency lease, under the nickname in which we are before 1 May 2004. Nevertheless, after this terrible haste, it would be good to examine the entire Slovenian legal order and take from it all the unnecessary pattern created by the speed of change. In the DeSUS Group, the proposal for an energy law is considered appropriate and will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The address of the extraordinary meeting should be replaced by the title of the last minute and the urgent procedure with a new delay. There's been a lot of this lately, and we've been rushing and hunting for something, and we can say that we're on the emergency ride, that we've got all the lights on, and we haven't even had time to look back into the mirror and see what's going on behind our backs. The fact is that the government is burdened only with quantity, very little with quality, because it is obvious that there are no conditions for it. At the table, we receive laws with an incredible number of comments from the legislature, with an incredible number of amendments, comments are substantive and this confirms that coordination in the government is extremely poor, that government departments are poorly coordinated and that legal services in the departments are performing their work on a superficial, time-consuming basis, and, in fact, conditions are not for serious work, and such an approach is extremely unsettling. With such a forceful approach and the adoption of the law, there are possible omissions and errors, as well as errors in the National Assembly and the new election set will have a great deal to do mainly by correcting these mistakes. We have already had a number of concerns and strong comments on energy policy management in the Slovenian Democratic Party in recent decades. This is reflected in outdated production facilities, transmission networks, electricity deficits, which occurred mainly in terms of terms or occurred after the return of the capacity of the Croatian nuclear power plant, after the artificial and political retention of electricity and network prices, partly due to ERM 2 and partly due to pre-selective time. We do not have a complete relationship with the largest and most energetic energy consumers, who also receive a very high subsidy, cause significant pollution of the environment, directly as manufacturing plants and indirectly as energy consumers. In short, we are facing enormous problems. A major problem is also the monopoly on the supply of natural gas and the transmission and management of the natural gas distribution network. This majority private company has managed to introduce into the energy programme a provision on the construction of the pipeline network and the supply of Russian gas and Russian turbines, which will cover Russian debt in Slovenia and at the same time create conditions for the long-term creation of monopolistic profits on both sides of the state border. It is also problematic, in our view, also a very long concession, up to 30 years old, in the distribution of electricity even 50 years old, because we have other cases of granting a 20-year concession, such as in the case of forests. However, if we grant a 50-year concession for an exhausted and amortised electricity network, this is quite strong. There are also no conditions for the termination of these long concessions, which means that everything is evil, that it will be expensive, that much money will flow out and that we will still have a headache for a long time. In the SDS, we do not deny that the problem of Russian debt needs to be addressed, but we would like to see a comparative analysis of energy sources and locations before deciding to build new gas, gas and energy facilities. Actually, that's not what it is. The fact is that gas is the most expensive electricity and it will also be difficult to compete with its own sources or sources of imports from new facilities and our assessment will favour new investments that can be labeled as potentially new inherited investments. There have also been a number of conflicting opinions between state institutions, between the Ministry of Policy and the Agency, which is a professional one, and it is obvious that there has also been insufficient coordination in this area, and it is also obvious that time pressure is the only way to bring unverified, uncoordinated and defective laws through the procedure. Even in our parliamentary group, we do not agree with such a way of working that the committee of the National Assembly deals without question with this material, that we receive amendments on the table, that we do not even have to check them or study them, that we cannot prepare alternative solutions, in short, the approach only leads to poor, unverified solutions and will certainly cause new problems. We estimate that this law will in fact need to be amended immediately after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of Liberal Democracy, Mr. Zoran Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives and other fellow Members! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, allow me to present my position on the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the energy law, which we support in the LDS. The law on amendments and additions to the energy law is essential to improve internal market rules in the field of electricity and natural gas, with the full opening of these two markets by 1.7.2007 and the full legal, organisational and functional separation of the management and implementation of the network from production and trade activities. For a lighter and more visual representation, I can say what that would mean in practice. This means, let's say, this is the same thing as if a company that carries out a speeding international activity, let's say an example that this would be Inter-Europe, at the same time, is the owner of the motorway. In this case, another, say, company that deals with the same activity, say, Viator Vector, would probably have quite the same conditions when it comes to motorways. And that is what this amendment of the law is talking about, that these two things need to be separated and, in fact, developed for each other to be fully competitive. The new directives on electricity and natural gas therefore aim to remove all obstacles that would also prevent the unification of this area throughout the EU. While the existing energy law of 1999 has introduced deregulation, this amendment introduces the opening of markets and their alignment with the EU acquis. However, all the uncertainties or shortcomings arising from the application of the energy law are also addressed. The establishment of the internal market in electricity and natural gas has already started on the basis of the Directives in force and has proved to be an extremely positive achievement, both for the competitiveness of the European economy and for the position of its citizens, since these are two fundamental sources of energy and are also linked to large economic sectors. The creation of the internal market also aims to achieve a reduction in production costs, while ensuring efficient and reliable supply of electricity and natural gas based on competitive energy prices. The existing Directives, 1997 electricity and 1998 natural gas, have already eliminated specific or exclusive rights related to the import or export of this type of energy, and established monopolies for the construction of production capacity and other parts of infrastructure, and have also set a minimum extent for the opening of the electricity market for certain user groups. They have also established basic mechanisms to ensure the openness of those markets and to protect consumers. One of these mechanisms is certainly one of the most important to ensure access to the network, as the networks are likely to remain a natural monopoly in the future because it is not possible to expect new parallel competitive networks to be built when opening markets. It is therefore essential that market participants obtain adequate access to transmission and distribution networks, including the relevant additional parts of the infrastructure. This assumption can only be effectively ensured if the performance and implementation are completely separate from other activities related to electricity and natural gas, since in another case there could be economic interests that would limit the development of competition, which certainly have the greatest positive effect on final consumers. In the LDS, we recognise that in the last period, before the historic moment of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, we have done a lot of work in the National Assembly in adopting certain legislation, but this is totally life-threatening and completely the only reason cannot be simply a reason to oppose this so important law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! A few speakers in front of me were talking about the rush and the consequences of the rush. We share the same opinion in the National Party, which is that it is a shame to be so quick in exchange for the quality of the individual law. It will also be our assessment that this kind of haste will result in this national assembly meeting with the same material very soon or trying to replace the existing matter in some substantive ways. We believe that it should be in the interest of both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly, and of course, most importantly, in the interest of citizens and citizens, that our legislation is hard legislation. That legislation, which could be marked by a word of credibility and not by legislation that we know will be replaced within the next few months. This is also bad from the title or this is bad because of the persons affected by this law, their links to legislative acts or legal acts of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me, however, to touch some of the content of the above - mentioned or the law before us. I will begin where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ends, i.e. with financial consequences. The Government in the Rapporteur, i.e. in the written material accompanying the law, states that the law itself will have no financial implications for the budget. At the same time, it adds, and it makes sense to emphasise, so that we all know what the real consequences or real financial consequences will be, namely, that the role of the Agency will increase significantly, both within the competences and some claim, in the duties. And, of course, this will require a new, bigger, more extensive funding from the agency. In the Rapporteur of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the government argues that this funding will be made from the share of the price determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This share of the price, and we probably all know what it means in substance, it means to raise the price. On the other hand, or other points of content that we would like to highlight within the national party are exactly or are related to my introductory part, these are, of course, concerns about the quality of the law itself. The legislative and legal service which exists in this National Assembly and is intended to alert us to the legal shortcomings of each law, i.e. those shortcomings which will be reflected in the implementation of this Act, has given us views and comments on more than half of the proposed articles. It is also the mother's working body, which has sat several times, according to my assessment, of course, too many times, and precisely because of this excessiveness there is a lack of quality in this law. But if I take all this together, it means that the government has not drawn up a law that reflects quality. In the last part of the five minutes, as far as I can see, I would like to touch on this many times, especially in the context of the debate on the home labour body, Article 34 of the Act, which requires economic public service providers to provide reasonable prices, inter alia, in the public interest. First, it makes sense to ask yourself what a reasonable price is. We are probably looking at the definition of a reasonable price differently in the National Party than in the Liberal Democracy Group. Furthermore, according to my assessment, the lack of reasonable price content should be noted that most of the public services in our country, both in the field of the content of this law and in the field of other content, are also marked by the capital company code, which means that they operate solely on the basis of the company law, which does not refer to public interest based on price setting, but refers to profit as the sole and independent source of such companies. So how do we determine a reasonable price if we have one and the same company or an institution which in the first part advocates the so-called public interest and refers to the law on public companies, that is to say, to bring the price closer to the citizens and citizens, and in the second part of its title the same company also has a capital company code, usually a shareholder company which advocates capital gains that are reflected in the maximisation of the price and similar things. It is precisely because of this title, i.e. duality, that we could also say that the immorality of the Slovenian government, which allows this kind of work, will not be able to support this kind of legal content in the National Party. I would like to point out that I am sorry that we are adopting laws that we will adopt very quickly, but unfortunately not because of our burden, but because of citizens and citizens, because they are subject to such legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the United Nations will be presented by Mr Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. Undoubtedly, it is the most demanding and extensive package or the most challenging novel from the package we received with the last shipment. We are aware that time was too short, and we agree with some estimates that they were not given the best conditions. However, it is possible to answer in two ways, either by raising your hands or by grabbing a job, and even by those normal, optimal conditions, you try to prepare a text that is worthy of support. From this title, I would say that the parent body has also drawn up a text that is worthy of this support and which we will support with the flexibility of the applicant and with the great effort made by the legislative and legal service. I'm not going to talk about the goals of the law we believe in. We believe that this novelty on the basis of the reduced production costs introduced by the directive will also bring about a reduction in prices, but this will show time. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are particularly pleased that we have taken a little more time to reshape distribution companies than was originally proposed or by the end of this year, and adapted it to the directives themselves, i.e. on 1 July than the deadline, of course 2007. We believe that it is possible to reshape before, but things can be broken down in the best families, so I think that the directive itself has taken a slightly more cautious view of this time and I am pleased that the proposaler has also agreed to enter into the provisions that set the deadlines. By supporting the proposal of the law, we also support the amendment you have received today at the table, which, of course, deals with an issue that needs to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd like to say a few words about haste, which is a lot of talk about this marriage. The rush is due to our mistrust, our fear of what will happen, because so far we have been trained and we have had a monopoly in the country, including in the field of electricity, in the area of gas. But now that we are entering a common space, in Europe, this market has suddenly become very large and I am not really afraid of it, it should be feared by distributors and energy producers. Those will suffer in this new space. And since we come from various parts of our country, we also bring some problems to the National Assembly, some fear of those who will be a little sicker from now on than they are. In fact, the Directives resulting from the amendment of this Act were written by the European Union to create an internal market in electricity and gas. If, so far, the European Union has found that, due to the opening of the market, industrial users have substantially reduced electricity prices, on average 25%, Sweden 15%, 35% of Britain, as stated in our introduction to this law, we cannot be afraid of this, we should be afraid or afraid of those who have now served too well with electricity, as well as households. If in Finland electricity prices were reduced by 13% and 16% in Sweden, even more in Sweden for the household than for the industry, then we have no fear of this law. And the changes that have taken place in this law are also those changes that should be made once. Because it is necessary to amend our legislation, which changes over time and over the years. There is also something to say about networks where there are criticisms. Of course, the network must have a concessionaire. And this concessionaire will be discussed in the future by the National Assembly when it changes the law and otherwise producers and customers will be on the common European market. And in doing so, it is only as stated in Rapporteur on page 7, Rapporteur No. 34, in connection with ensuring equal access of third parties to the network, there is no doubt that the requirement to separate activities related to the management of transmission and distribution networks from other energy activities that could lead to bias and favouritism in the allocation of available capacity if they were carried out by the same company. Further market opening is expected to further increase the level of consumer protection. Especially in terms of ensuring minimum standards and protecting vulnerable persons, such as socially disadvantaged segments of the population. This is what our introduction to the law says, and this is how we looked at the Infrastructure Committee when we discussed it. I am left with more than one other question in our Group, how it will be in the future. This is what I said this week, because we will still have directives from the European Union that will change a lot. And whether it will change the laws under these directives, I think not anymore, but the directive will have to be respected. This, however, seems to be what we are fighting in Slovenia and also in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. Since this is an urgent procedure, we have this moment, in fact, you have only amendments on the tables to the amended bill amending and supplementing the energy law to Article 1. At this point they're dividing it up to Article 9 and so on. I will not list all of them, so we will begin the debate on the amendment to Article 1. Here we have an amendment from the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS. That's what you got first. Sounds like today's date. I am opening the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. Who wants a word? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Minister with the co-workers! The adoption of this law, which is meant to be merely an adaptation to EU directives, of course, once again constitutes a special feature in our space. And since this is being done at the last moment and changes to the law under a directive are so extensive that they have given a half-kilogram report to the Infrastructure Committee, of course the public like us are wondering how it is possible to get into such a time crisis. And, of course, we also wonder what interests have contributed to the work and rape of the national assembly in this way. But this law is not the first law to be adopted in such a way that it is possible to incorporate into the law extremely important, far-reaching consequences that bring material benefits to certain lobbies. Now that I see this amendment, which the three parliamentary groups - I think - because it is time for me to review anything at this time, of course, it is not - that such an amendment was offered by the electricity agency on the Infrastructure Committee. However, there was, interestingly, I was merely an alternate member accidentally on that committee, and there was an interesting situation in which government representatives in this matter and many other matters defended these amendments by their fellow Member, Mr Gračner, but did not defend the amendments by the government agency. This is, of course, clear to everyone that this is a conflict of interest, it would be logical to expect that the government will put the bill into place in due time or to make amendments to its own law, as proposed by the professional agency that is working on it. It's very different here. However, since it is the price of using the network and it is very big things to do with it, I want to say this in what way we are in such a time-consuming situation, in such a pressure we make such extremely important decisions. The Law on Electronic Communications was exactly the same. In the morning, the committee accepted the rapid amendments, then came to the table, and I was informed that, for example, we had written in Article 171(2): "No law governing public procurement applies to contracts awarded by operators." That's what I'm saying as an example. This has far-reaching consequences. As I'm told, this article gives Telekom free hands in larger acquisitions of telecommunications equipment. Not only did Telekom - an ultra successful company, with ultra-successful policies, provide an article that will make extra profits, avoid the law on public procurement and so on. I have already pointed out there this unnatural matter that the government does not know how to travel through its agencies but through the government of amendments, but that they must come from Zasavje, where, say, ultra-successful Ultra. And that they have the full support of the Minister and all such amendments coming from a specific destination [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u25	May I please, Mr Jerovšek, Article 1 is clear, and the amendment is also clear. Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, stick to what is under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u26	The price for using the network - this is what I'm talking about - and what can be behind these prices, any profits, benefits and whatever is hidden. Things don't seem random to me. In fact, this article is going back to that -- and in this situation, I am in some way defending a professional institution that I think knows that at least it is proposing something that is to the benefit of the state. Let the minister know if such an agency is against the state. But the last time I saw on the board was that there was no obedience to such an amendment, which, while proposed as an amendment to the committee, was proposed. I believe that our request for an extraordinary meeting, where there is also a point on clientism and all these corruption issues, has not worked enough, and that the government has withdrawn a little. Some things have been working overnight, and she's given that opportunity. Now this important matter, which deals with the structure of the price for the use of the network, has been thrown into Article 1, since probably some other articles are no longer open where it would make more sense. And, look, I suppose there's still a whole bunch of amendments in this law, clauses that have far-reaching, long-term implications. When the electricity market is released, it is perfectly normal to have a wide range of stakeholders here who see an extraordinary opportunity to make a profit, which is normal. We know that in the framework of the Istrabenz, the former politicians form a group that is already trading and counting on big business. I believe that an important centre here in Zasavje is that ultra-successful companies, which will fight for ultra-profits, are ultra-successful managers who are philosophers and so on. It's not an accident. When electricity was shut down at the Krška nuclear power plant on 1 August when such a thing does not happen, and then there are all consequences if the memory does not deceive me, as it was later found, but before that there was a contract that ensured free transmission or free use of the network for Croatian electricity and then electricity was also transported through different pockets, but directly to Croatia without the State charging anything. Although it was formally sold to Austria and then to Croatia, it went directly. That's why I can't go to these games. In this way such an important law cannot be adopted and you must also be aware of that, in this liberally united association. This way is harmful for the country, and this way it will bring again - I do not know if it will be worth 15 billion as much as it was when the power went down for the Krška nuclear power plant. We know what the commission found, what important politicians there all had an interest in the back. Here is the cover, these guidelines of the European Union are a cover for significantly larger and more far-reaching things, for significantly greater material consequences. Of course, this is why I cannot support all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you very much. If the Members of the ruling coalition did not disturb me, I would ask if you could calm them down. This law will certainly take extensive organisational changes, far from what the European Union requires of us. I have previously read what you have written in your own explanatory memorandum to the law that this area has not yet been regulated in the Member States of the European Union in accordance with the Directive and that you cannot give a comparative representation. It's in the rapporteur himself. I will now move on to this amendment to Article 1. Even earlier, I would like to draw attention to the fact that from this explanation that this will be such a major organisational intervention for the providers of these services, it already points to the fact that electricity from the sky has been cheap with us, as a colleague spoke earlier when he spoke about data from Finland, Sweden. I'm even hoping to predict that it's going to get faster than cheap, just as I did yesterday comparatively show the price of gasoline in one year; with the dollar falling 14% in one year, the price of gasoline increased by 6.5%. And I explained how the government exploits and artificially holds these excise duties and prices at this level to operate in this way. If I go now to Article 1 which gives an explanation of the terms used. If I stop only at the first biomass, you say you've engaged and you've prepared a very good proposal that we can accept. But the definition of biomass after what you've written here is that it's residues and waste from agriculture and forestry, so if it's us - otherwise it's already in an energy resolution in this way, but it's wrong. Biomass cannot be residues from agriculture and forestry, because if they are only remnants, then the government cannot come and make some energy resolution on the use of biomass, where you expect to invest in 5,000 individual boilers in the Republic of Slovenia in ten years, then in five hundred medium-sized and fifty large systems. You can't supply this simply with the remains of forestry. Biomass is also the natural growth of wood, which is not waste from forestry. If you write such definitions in laws, then of course this approach is apriorally wrong and I say again that there was a process of adoption in impossible situations in this law and that it was not possible to participate in this in a dignified manner. Under cover of May 1, you accept and press into some quantity instead of ensuring quality. I agree with those who have said that all these laws will be adopted in this way and that because different solutions are being packed, they will need to be thoroughly corrected in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Grachner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u30	Thank you, for your word. I'll replicate it to Mr. Jerovsk. Our Mr Jerovšek is known for never being satisfied and there is also no way to satisfy him. Before, for example, when we witnessed two meetings that didn't last until Friday, until, I don't know, what time it was full of comments that the government was not doing anything and everything was wrong. Then there were signs that we would not accept the whole package until we entered the European Union. Now, I have already mentioned in my speech that before May 1st we are doing a little more work, but now it is full of readings and everything is based on working too hard, working too hard and hurrying, and that we have no time to read and prepare. It is true that during that time we had to work a little harder, but sometimes we had to work a little harder. That's true, but as I said, it can't possibly be obvious that legislation doesn't go through. If it doesn't go through, we'll be listening again after May 1st to the obvious how we didn't do anything. Now if I can get through to my amendments, which were a lot of talk. I've just gone a little deeper into this energy law, because I'm also very much involved in the national energy programme after basic energy education. Since it seemed to me that certain things were inconsistent, and in a very positive sense, and if I had understood them, then I would certainly have been able to do so, because these amendments I submitted even improved this energy law in the sense that they fully shared legal and organisationally as well as functional producers, distributors or operators and network operators, as well as the final consumer, so that one who manages a network cannot also engage in a trading activity. In order to understand better, I had previously illustrated the case of highways and two freight forwards. Since I have encountered these certain shortcomings, I have also come across the government and have consulted with the Minister and the Secretary of State and asked them what they think about these amendments. And in this session, they just said it. However, Comrade Jerovšek came to the meeting - the amendments were tabled on April 14th and were published in Lotus Notes - as a replacement member and he made the entire cow meeting out of that that we received all these amendments only there. This, once again, cannot be the cause because we are acting in some time-consuming, outwardly creating an unrealistic, unrealistic appearance of an emergency if it is not. It's just the way it is in life. When we get close to a term, it's a little more to do and it's over. And look at these amendments and in all this some form of conspiracy and I don't know what's extremely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Gračner just apostrophe me that I'm never satisfied. God's people, that's the way marriage is supposed to be! With the state of energy, he is expected to be satisfied where in the past there have been such severe, grave, planned errors, which are 15 billion, see Kelemin's report, the country has stood. That money ran out, that money went into my pockets. And now, Mr. Gračner, I find myself defending myself. I don't know if this one's right. I've been in a lot of marriages here, and it's been the same for four years. Mr. Gračner, you've awakened from deafness in the last year, and in the electoral year, you've awakened from deafness. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't worry about it. I also have some grounds that these energy issues can be very well understood by the technical side. Last but not least, I was the head of the plant, where 25 megawatts of installed power was heat and electricity. Electricity was also produced. That's why I don't let you try me like that. But now you are admitting for yourself, but today we are in time trouble and we are making an emergency. Extraordinary meetings have been convened so far by the government. All the extraordinary meetings have been convened by the government and in fact you are making an emergency situation in this country and you are sending the obviouss to our side. None of this evidence is acceptable. I'm not a board member, I'm not particularly into it because I'm not a board member. If I get such a salad on the table now that we've been waiting half an hour for it to be copied, I normally wonder what other Members, who are significantly less familiar with energy, because they are not naturalists, are not techniques for how they can digest this matter at such a time and what the law will look like coming through such a procedure. Mr. Gračner, please refrain from making these observations. But of course I said here before the assembly what I noticed the last time I happened to be on the board, that the government does not support its professional institutions, but that the dedicated person in this matter of energy was you. Maybe it's very good, but maybe it's not that bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u34	It's amazing how simple a person can make an impression out of a very simple matter that it's not about how big a conspiracy is and I don't know what it's all about. This is an article called Definition of terms to be used throughout the law then forwards. Of course, if Mr Jerovšek had read this concept on four pages in 50 pages, it would have been clear to him what this law was governing. And there is nothing else here in this article and even in this amendment. Of course, he could not discuss the amendment, because first of all these four pages should read and find that the price for the use of the network is a term used throughout the law. This amendment deals more precisely with this definition. And that's all. The fact that he has instructions from some people who sit in the congregation or one who sits in a congregational council and is by chance also close to this agency is by accident or by accident. You know, Mr. Jerovšek, very well. You know very well, even if you know how it affected, because of course in the past I don't know what happened, how it affected the losses, the terrible costs in the electricity system, you mentioned earlier. I think it would be much better to look at these 50 indents, and above all the title of this article, which says that the concepts used in this law mean nothing. And those terms count. If you define the price, you know what that price means. If you define what an energy supplier is, it is said who is either a legal or a natural person. If you say so, that's it and that. And if you say in a specific case, the price for using the network is this and that and that. And no other conspiracy, no search or government needs to support the agency or Gračner's investment, I don't know what kind of amendment. I don't know, they have a specific title in Zasavje. And probably some kind of song. Yesterday someone here explained, I think Mr. Bajuk, what they said about certain tasks at home. That was the notion of taping carpets, I think he was talking about it, slapping. Well, let's say he's a slapper and they're taping elsewhere. And I suppose that the price for using the network can be understood differently, but that everyone would understand the same thing and that the law was clear, but this definition was sought together with the agency, along with the ministry, along with the legislative and legal services and the comments we have taken out, and then we wrote it down. So if we didn't listen to the comments, we'd be doing the wrong thing. Because we've listened to the comments, and we've made this clear, we're doing it wrong again. I only believe that this amendment is such that it explains these things, puts them in the context of this Article 1 on a clear basis and will contribute to understanding the whole law and all the relations it regulates and therefore I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek replica. Then let's make it a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Anderlich for contributing to the multidisciplinary analysis of concepts and definitions here. Of course, we are one who has learned something about physics, but from this point of view, here is Mr Gračner's engineer, as far as I know, Mr Anderlič has also considered more from this mechanical and Kevinian aspect of this definition, which is why I think it is useful because at least some things are being clarified. But when you tell me to see some conspiracies. I don't know what you read to me. One of the municipal councillors, I'm a councilman. If you wanted to humiliate me for not speaking here as an MP, I don't know about any other saint. I think you wanted to insinuate something. Who's the councilman in Maribor, please? There you have a colleague, Mojet, to tell you if there was a councilman from Maribor at the meeting, I don't know. But this insinuation that some municipal councilman from Maribor, perhaps even if you had insinuated, was certainly not there from my party, certainly there was no municipal councilman. And that's a clean lie. That's how you do it, and you try to get others to input the conspiracy. Please don't tell people what isn't real. I am just, once again, stressing it was very strange at the government's meeting that there are professional institutions there, that they do not trust the government, that they have the full confidence of the government of some other people who have tabled amendments legitimately, but with the support of entirely other centres of power. [[...]] That's my guess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Look, maybe if the amendment were to say in the second indent of the first paragraph of Article 1 it would be added for the word "network" and is set up from the network and the additions to the network and so on, then probably no one would start the story and say, "Yes, it is a pure editorial." But that's exactly what this amendment says, this is an editorial amendment that is of an explanatory nature. And of course we support it, but otherwise it does not add entirely any new content, only the possible ambiguity of interpretation, in our opinion, it eliminates in an appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Petan, then Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So there won't be any confusion. I don't think we need to report in the opposition that we're against doing things. I had heard that before, regardless of the context in which it was. And that's not gonna make it so important to work. That's not true. At least we have to report the week in the opposition. We prepare what we prepare ourselves. We don't have a powerful government apparatus that can work on this. We need to study the material ourselves, not study the materials of others for us, and then suggest that, if possible, there is nothing wrong with us. I have to say this too. I'm not going to get a reading. But we prepare it ourselves to understand each other. That's the first thing you have to do. But it's important to us how it works. It doesn't matter what you do, it does what you do, it makes you blink, and it can be said that you do, and then we brag about statistics about how much we do. That's not right. We want to tell you that work has to make sense. And work doesn't make sense, and it's a reflection of some disorderly organization and some bad organization. If such a work is done by an expert state institution that has a certain number of people to do it, I do not claim that there are too many of them that no one will tell me that either. But he's got the institutions, he's got the frame, he's got the job to do well. However, if there is such a law in the National Assembly that the 63-page committee has to prepare amendments to the amendments or, I don't know, additions to the article, then, ladies and gentlemen, that is a reflection of what I have said, of the irregularity in that segment that must prepare it, a reflection of the poor organisation. What kind of law it is, then, if the committee in the National Assembly has to give almost a kilo of amendments to bring together this law, which is supposed to be as good as it should be. I think it's either close to that or they think it is. On the other hand, it seems to me that this is really a reflection of disorder and bad organization, if the government does not defend its position at times, but advocates the amendments that have been drafted by someone else. You know, this kind of work doesn't show up in the good light of the trainee, which is in this case the government. If there is such a situation, then the government should be so radical - I will also come in the first amendment, not to worry, but to draw it all back, and if it supports all these strong amendments that are here, put it into the correct proposal and then come back. Like I said, it's a bad light for the government, you could say it's got a little light and it's working in the dark. On the other hand, given the evidence that it is now so improved. This means that the government didn't know, the government just didn't know that it had made a bad proposal and now we just had to enlighten it so that the matter would be better or those Members who proposed it. On the other hand, that the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly must make comments and so many comments if it is one, two, three, that is a trifle, or if they are editorial. However, when it comes to content, because the legal and legislative service has only a limited number of people, and in all of this strong government-driven law enforcement, they are probably in serious trouble. On the other hand, the one who prepared this law likely had more people at his disposal to prepare it well. On the other hand, why hasn't the government consulted someone who knows all this before? Since this was not in, it obviously means that the government has either not consulted or consulted with those who do not know. And now, let me remind you, when it comes to Article 1 of this amendment, what is balancing energy and what is a balancing market. Whether they did not know what the compensatory market was, that they had to be reminded of it by the legislative and legal service, because it was on the proposal of the legislative and legal service, or I do not know, it seems to her that it was clear enough to release certain things. I'll allow that, too. After all this, I can say that either the government obviously doesn't know about energy and that it was a mistake to transfer energy from one ministry to another, and that they're not controlling it there now, or that it's doing it on purpose to get something inside that we can't see, because we can't read this "schéch" right now and find out all the possible traps that can be hidden here. I am not saying that it was for this purpose, but it can also be because we have many such cases. And you could obviously say that if I expressed myself energyically, because I am also an energy scientist and I also have an expert exam in this area, it is obvious that the law was prepared in the dark, without any energy, that such a correction is needed only in the National Assembly. But that's probably not all it takes, because I'm sure we're going to have to make things right very soon. So please don't tell us again that we don't have enough listening to work. We don't have to do this because we prepare it ourselves, and you have the whole machine in the back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Thank you. I would like to stop at the amendment to Article 1, because I think this is the subject of discussion. Of course, I also have an opinion on how to work and how to deal with laws. I was also indignant at the fact that the committee had to deal with all the agenda items imposed on it by the College of the President of the National Assembly at five meetings until the end. Now for the amendment to Article 1. There was a very wide debate on Article 28 of the Law on the Committee. The second paragraph of Article 28 refers to the methodology for calculating prices for the use of networks. This amendment to Article 1 is the result of the coordination between the proposer of the law and the agency, as well as between our services, both the legislative and legal service and the professional service. That is why this amendment deserves support because it solves the dilemma that was also expressed at the meeting of the Committee at the time of its consideration of Article 28. This amendment fully resolves and more precisely defines the basic concepts of the price for the use of the network, and I think it deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko - Article 1!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Probably under conditions like everybody else, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Now we're at Article 1. So please be so kind as to limit yourself to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u46	I'm going to limit myself to part one. The fact is that it is evidence that the law is ready very quickly, that things do not work, that we are dealing with definitions in the amendment form. I must say that I am in fact extremely negative about this work. The fact is, once we adopt this law, the law will essentially have little or nothing to do with the government. It was formally accepted by the National Assembly and for all the solutions that will be found in this law, we can turn to the National Assembly. The government is proposing and the government is implementing, and in the midst of this, there are 90 of us who have to deal with these solutions, prepare, supplement, repair and so on. In short, we have a great responsibility here. The fact is that at the end of the day, all the laws adopted in the National Assembly are praised, especially by the government, although, as we have seen here, more than 2/3 of the articles of law must be amended in one way or another. In this strong enthusiasm, at this speed of the EU, etc., it would be appropriate for the government to at least mark which members are falling and which are in this law for the sake of the EU and which are members for other reasons. At least we know what it's all about. And we can also take that into account in Article 1. The other thing we're doing wrong in this national council or other evidence is that, I don't know, we're now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u47	I would ask that we really focus on the amendment. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u48	We're at the amendment. We're not talking about anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u49	We're really not talking about everything else, but we're going to the amendments. I think that there has been a good enough debate on the Infrastructure Committee, but today, in the context of the presentations on the positions of the parliamentary groups, and see how much work we still have to do today, and the more we talk about what we have to do, the more we will waste this precious time. I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u50	Thank you for your warning, Mr Vice-President, but Article 1 is extremely broad. Is written inside [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u51	But the amendment isn't that wide.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Broad enough to be referred to in Article 1 and to Article 1 which covers the entire activity register. I want you to be so tolerant that I have the same option as all the other five or seven debaters before me. There is no reason, such as and not different, for this ninth debater to have different conditions in Article 1. That's inappropriate. In doing so, I would just like to point out that in this national assembly in this area of the environment and space we have probably adopted about 15 laws and that we will correct about half of them already in this mandate. I'm already talking about this term. This means that very bad laws are being prepared, that they need a lot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u53	This is not the subject of this amendment either, Comrade Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Next thing. Mira's not in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u55	I need to remind you not to talk about how many laws we've worked this way. If we're on the amendment to Article 1, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u56	The next point I would like to draw attention to in this Article is also that due to the changes made by law, tariff customers and other customers will pay substantially more than they have paid so far. Amendments transposing by law mean significant changes, both in structural work and in operators, both in agency work and in operators and in this part or at least part of it goes to network and other costs, supply and management of electricity. That's what the customers will pay in the end. And these changes that are written here are not so small and will have relatively large consequences. The network's probably going to fix something on this part, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please, this warning applies to everyone else. I'll give the minister my word because he wanted to.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. That's all I want to say, although of course it has nothing to do with the amendment. But what you've been saying has nothing to do with the amendment. It is not true that anyone, in any way, will receive an increase in the price on the basis of the adoption of this law. That's not true. You made that all up. This law explicitly speaks, which I said in the opening recital, being a eligible customer is a right, not a duty. If the beneficiary or the household is eligible, until 1 July 2007, the customer has, he wants a new supplier, he will probably choose a cheaper one, then he will go there. If not, the existing supplier must provide it with the same conditions as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I must say that I am very supportive of you and I ask you to insist as President on this matter today on what you said we are talking only about the amendments. The debate was on the committees and if the distinguished colleagues of the two opposition parties did not announce the obstruction, they could clear all of this up on the committees. But there's no cameras on the boards, there's no microphones on the boards, there's work, and here it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u61	May I close the debate on the amendment to Article 1? No replicas, you weren't named. No, I won't. I've closed the debate. I won't give you a replica. We'll go to the vote. I'm the one who closed the debate, buddy. I'm the one who closed the debate. We will move to a vote on the amendment to Article 1 of the three parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Jerovšek, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I've already predicted that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u63	within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u64	that such reform of the law, that matter which does not fall within Article 1, paragraph 1, goes into Article 1, because at the last moment something has come to light that something would be too vague, that we do not accept it and I will not support it. [[...]] However, I took the floor to explain why I refused to insinuate, as part of my explanation, that we had obstructed this meeting of the committee. That we're [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u65	That's not an explanation for the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u66	It's a pure lie. That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Comrade Jerovšek, this is no explanation for the voice. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. Look on the board, who didn't want to vote, but he's in the hall. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. At 12.03, we will vote for the third time and act if the third vote fails.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Please calm down. We'll go to the vote. Check the voting devices so there won't be any later objections. I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 1 of the three groups of Members. I think you have him in front of you. We know what we are voting on. This is the third time we've voted. There are 59 of us present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 9 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Who wants a word? Comrade Tank, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to protest because you didn't allow me to correct my colleague Kremjar's misstatement before. At the Slovenian Democratic Party, we did not obstruct the treatment of this point on the working body. It was said that we were obstructed, but we didn't obstruct these points. It is true, however, that we did not attend all the meetings of the committee because things were so that certain things could not be postponed and otherwise organised. With regard to Article 9, I would like to say that, not long ago, we had adopted a resolution on the energy programme under the old law and that we had adopted the resolution in a different text, as the law then stipulated. And now, on the basis of the resolution adopted, we are correcting the bill. So we've kind of turned things around and we're dealing with things the wrong way. The fact is, I think that in the resolution on the national energy programme, things should be well-treated enough so that Members and all those who will adopt and those who will apply this resolution will have clear criteria written down. It is necessary to know precisely the financial scope covered by the resolution, financial resources, financial structures, where something will be built, with what resources, with what energies and so on. The control mechanisms should also be incorporated in this resolution. The fact is that the resolution that we have adopted does not all of these things have a flaw and allows the Ministry to make its own decisions, management and management of the energy sector entirely. In fact, the National Assembly and no other body has any basis for any control and control in this system. The only thing that has been processed in the resolution is the area of efficient energy use being financially processed and renewable energy sources. That's the only thing that's financially processed. While the remaining part of the sector or the remaining part of the tasks of the energy resolution, which is at least thirty times as large, is not known and defined in this resolution. The text suggests that at least part of the correction or this loose text, which is now envisaged, be supplemented and that the resolution should include things which, in no other area, are not available to this national assembly. No other instrument in the field, other than the law and the resolution, shall this State Energy Assembly accept, not in one and not in the other, any relevant data, procedures, constructions, financial implications and so on be recorded. That is why I think it is right to gather at least one of these things together and that we can at least occasionally every four, five years when the resolution is adopted, we will get to know them and discuss them, and we also know what the consequences will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I think you meant the national energy programme referred to in Article 9. The Minister will try to answer these questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would not like to repeat the debate on the national energy programme, which was adopted a month ago. The fact is that the SDS Group proposes that the text of Article 9 be replaced by an exact identical text, as is now the case in Article 13 of the existing energy law. It would be more appropriate to delete Article 9 and thus achieve the same purpose. But we are against this, so we have proposed an amendment to Article 13 of the existing law, because this, for example, implies that the national energy programme should also include the envisaged extent of private investors' investment in energy activity. This is simply impossible to predict. We then had this dilemma in the national energy programme, so you criticised us because we didn't see it coming because we can't even predict it. Such things, which are impossible to predict, are accidentally recorded in Article 13 of the existing law, if they have to be there, we propose that this be corrected. That is why we do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 9? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article and Amendment to Article 9. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 9. There are 51 of us present, 10 votes in favour, 39 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 10 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Who wants a word? My friend Joza Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 10, we are only proposing a slightly more flexible solution. We propose that the local community can adopt the local energy concept, the text states that it must be accepted, and we propose that this energy concept is mandatory. This is said to be mandatory only when the municipality, the local community, expects to receive a project co-financed or candidature from other sources. In cases where she is an investor herself, however, I think it is unnecessary to burden her with a local energy concept every ten years. After all, this provision, which is currently written, is similar to that of notariats because it imposes and automatically forces and gives business to certain categories, certain groups, in this case designers. I think that this solution that we're proposing would be more acceptable to a congregation that has, I don't know, 2,000 people or 3,000 people, and has 80 settlements, that's a meaningless cost. This needs to be known because in ten years in such areas something will not change significantly and there are few such municipalities in Slovenia. It would therefore make sense to correct the matter at least in the sense that the condition of local energy programmes is in cases of co-financing resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about the amendment and the article? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. The development of local energy concepts is already an obligation of municipalities, which is not sanctioned unless it is fulfilled in the present law or in the novel, and this is why it is indeed a guide for municipalities that all municipalities that want to act well and function for the well-being of their citizens also realize and implement it. However, I must say that from a national level, every local energy concept is co-financed by us, if the congregation goes to work, that is how it was, and so it will be in the future. This second part of the amendment is also dictively very awkward because it assumes that something can be financed if it is confirmed, which means that you do not know what is earlier, or the chicken or the egg, or is first confirmed, and then financed or financed, and is subsequently confirmed, and cannot be financed if it is not confirmed first. This is one of the dictional insolences that you wouldn't attach much importance to. I don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else want a word? Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Just for a little while. If this is true, as the Minister has now explained, then of course I do not understand why they do not support this amendment, because, after all, we can put this word into this article and make it in line with what you have explained a little earlier, that these energy programmes for local communities are not an obligation. For this reason, there is no problem in not supporting this amendment and also in this law, following that local communities can or will not do these energy programmes. It seems to me that this would make sense for a clearer definition in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Minister, would you like another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Look, we co-finance the programming, not the implementation of the programmes. After all, the implementation of the programs does not necessarily require any money for the congregation at all. It simply means to enter into a spatial act where it will have a pipeline, where it will have it, whether it will be remotely heated or not. Of course, it is not necessary for the congregation to pay at all. We are co-financed by a paper called the Local Energy Concept. Implementation, which is the wish of this amendment, but not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you. My friend Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u81	In this part, as far as co-financing of local energy programmes is concerned, this amendment is without prejudice to an existing regime which, I think, is okay with this approach of the ministry or agency, by encouraging these things with the share envisaged there, 40 or 60, depending on how much it is. However, I am convinced that it is rational for us to make this possibility for the municipalities to decide on the development of local energy programmes. However, this program is necessary when, say, a municipality is carrying out a remote heating project, but it does not have this program. It may, however, receive funds from the State budget as aid or from the European Union. In this case, I agree that this must be mandatory, because in this too, the ministry, or the money giver, has some basis that this is done in accordance with some concept, with some matter. In the event that these projects do not come into being, the concept itself does not matter. We can do more, but that only makes sense in upgrades, so to speak, if these projects are being implemented on the ground. In this case, it is absolutely right that this local energy concept is. But if small congregations in this area have no capacity, no prospects, they are burdened with making these things without connection. It doesn't make sense because these things can't and they don't need it because it's a couple of hamlets and we're going to walk with the concept. In cases of major settlements, major investments co-financed, and here also the Ministry has a programme behind it, as well as an effective use programme, and here I agree that it must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 10 and on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article and move on to a decision. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 8 votes in favour, 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I am moving on to Article 13, to which the three groups of Members have tabled an amendment. Who wants a word? Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u83	In the context of this amendment, which I hope was based on a legal opinion and I do not think it is disputed in this respect, I would like to ask for an argument on the last paragraph, which provides for a 50-year concessional relationship. Where is the basis for such an awful long concession relationship? We know that the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands for Permanent Plants, which must be planted and I do not know what everything sets out 30 years, and that is a long time. Where are the grounds for such long relationships set out in this Article? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Thank you. This has nothing to do with the amendment, but if it is a question and if I may still answer it, I would like to say that we have public companies that own infrastructure. So, the electricity distribution companies are the owners of the infrastructure, not the state of ownership. They are therefore established as public undertakings for a period longer than 50 years. In accordance with the directive, we must now also grant a concession to public companies, which will be a particular legal problem, but we will do so because it is necessary to ensure compliance with the directive. And that is why we are going to turn this identity of a public company, which is far in the majority ownership of the country, into a concessional relationship. In short, it is a concession relationship with current public companies, which are 80% owned by the State, and they own this infrastructure. And this infrastructure also has a long amortisation period, up to 50 years old, so of course that word makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u86	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 13. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 38 votes in favour, 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 43 and the amendment of the three parliamentary groups, the LDS, the United List and the DeSUS, to this Article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 58 and the amendment of the same three groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are only 43 of us present, but there are more of us in the hall, so we will vote another time. We'll vote next time. There are 49 of us present, 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. And I'm moving on to the last article to which the amendments have been tabled, this is Article 78. In this amendment, you have an amendment first of all, and then you have an amendment today, or amendment to Article 78. My friend Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Council, on behalf of the three groups that proposed amending the amendment to Article 78, supplemented this amendment by deleting the last third paragraph of Article 78.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Thank you for your proposal, but to formulate it, Article 78, paragraph 3, is deleted. This is a complement to this change. And you'll put it in writing. The debate on the amendment is still under way. Who wants a word? You have before you an amendment, an amendment to the amendment, you have Article 78 in writing, Comrade Branko Janc has proposed an additional amendment to this amended amendment, supplementing the amendment to delete Article 78, paragraph 3. Please, if you take the page - the moment, on page 61 of this amended proposal, is Article 78, which proposes that the third paragraph of this Article be deleted. Who wants a word about this? First my colleague, Jože Tanko, then Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u89	Thank you. There's only one brief explanation I'd like to ask for. In the second paragraph, I am interested in the last sentence, "more than 25% of the basic capital of this legal person", which legal person is the subject or the first or the second?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Minister, I give you my word and then my colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u91	Thank you. These three paragraphs are each for one. One is for Eles, one is for the power distribution companies, the one you asked about is for Holding. So I don't think there's any confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u92	First of all, colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Thank you very much. These amendments, which, of course, have now come to the table and which are being orally corrected by LDS colleagues, show what the process of coordination with the European Union Directive is actually in this law. This best shows how this state council is being abused for something else, Mr. Minister. You wrote one in the law, and today here - even in our parliamentary group, in the introductory presentation, we have questioned this solution on the basis of some arguments, with what calculations you came up with these proposals, which you wrote in Article 78, there was no debate in the National Assembly. Now, you bring us one amendment correction, which says that that fraction, which is more than 75%, cannot be privatized there. What's that even supposed to mean? Then, however, colleague Janc of the LDS announces that it is still proposed that the third paragraph of Article 78 be deleted. Tell me honestly what you have behind your back and who you wrote these amendments on your skin so that they can again have the transition ownership in this Slovenian legal order as we have. So, we are firmly opposed to having such amendments interfered with not the law itself. If even Article 78, as it is written, we now do not know what this solution actually represents.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u94	All right, let's go, Comrade Joseph Jerovšek gets the word, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say that Minister Kopač has not answered Mr Tank's question and it is still not clear to me whether the volume of more than 25% of the basic capital of this legal person is the legal person who will sell or transfer from or the one to which it is transferred. In fact, I don't like this lecture. Wouldn't it be more right here to "can't sell" or something? Transfer can be worthless, it can be tolerated, it's a very strange concept. Can he sell? But simply, in all three paragraphs it is not clear where 25% of the capital or the capital to which it is transferred or the one to which it is transferred or to be sold - I think it would be more the right term. But now for the second time. I think that this 78th article is crucial for illustrating appetites in the field of energy. And I think it would be right for Mr Minister to tell us, in the context of this law, at least in his explanation, how they will be transmitted to you, because I fear that it will actually be tolerated that the state will not sell much, but will transfer it first to a legal person who will then sell that transferred share further, as was the case with the system technique in Viator-Vector. The country transferred to Viator-Vector, and they sold it later. So there should be more to know here. In fact, it is gratifying that at least a little bit here in this amended amendment we see what is actually envisaged. I am not saying that this is something wrong, it is likely that some shares will also have to be sold by holding Slovenian power plants, but we know there are plenty of stories here. A while ago, the holding company moved from Maribor. In this light he built a palace in Ljubljana - earlier they said that this would have no material consequences but nothing, that only because of this is the need to transfer the holding company to Ljubljana, that the minister will come to the holding company three times a week, so the minister himself said. Then it was seen that it was very interesting to hold a luxury palace in Ljubljana, and it was built from taxpayers' money. Now the holding company will start selling. And I am very sorry that this holding company is not in Maribor, because only for tax purposes would it be very useful for Styria if the taxes were collected at that location. So the financial lobbies who were behind it all the time knew what they were doing, how they were doing it, and they did it. Well, at some point there was a dispute between the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and the Austrian Distribution Company Verbund. Because Verbund was a dedicated partner for the construction of power plants on Sava in some past period and some Slovenian politicians have already promised him everything. Then the trifle had become too clear about it and they had to withdraw the pre-arrangement somehow. Then we read Verbund is suing and counting on him to sue. And now Verbund has great allies again in Slovenian politics and Slovenian electricity. And, Minister, under this amendment, give us a little bit of an idea of what is currently on the table, what shares you are transferring, which you will then sell, or whether the shares will be transferred to - and in what time will he be able to sell them immediately, and in which time he will be able to make a greasy profit. And I suggest, if you count on such transfers, that you withdraw this dictatorship from the law and that it should be as usual if the sales contracts are to be sold, or, I don't know, if, under our legislation, the transposition is the best term in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Branko Janc has the word and then Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Well, there's something I'd like to explain about Article 78. Indeed, the basic text of the energy law provides for the privatisation of individual companies. In particular, it is not possible to privatise a public transmission company. Privatisation with this law, i.e. distribution companies performing public economic services, is possible up to 25%. However, it seems to me that for the energy production companies, which we have already said in 1999 that we should go a second way, is no longer exclusively in 100% state ownership - that these companies will have to be found on the market and not always be under the auspices of the state. And, look, one year ago, when we adopted the budget, we adopted 27 billion tolls in the B balance sheet to cover inherited investments. It is my opinion that it is simply necessary to safeguard some national interest by retaining the majority stake, i.e. 51% and more, if necessary; another 49%, of course, should go to the market where private capital is included, of course. Here I mean, for existing companies, as well as for new investments, which will therefore be for investing in new energy facilities. This means that our amendment to Article 78, that is, the amended amendment, and the deletion of Article 78, paragraph 3. Of course, there's no conspiracy in the back. I believe that this article is, of course, to avoid the fact that the state will forever fill energy companies with subsidies and with its own money, this must be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Joze Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you very much. See, now this 78th Article is a typical example of how this cover under the adaptation of the European Union achieves other objectives of the law. The European Union is not interested in whether we have this publicly or are privatised. In this case, we're putting things on privatisation. However, I would also like to say that the explanation of the law is not in accordance with the procedure and with the amendments proposed by the government coalition. Because here these changes obviously have a financial impact on the state budget. Apparently, they have implications for the state budget! Whether they are on the revenue side or on the expenditure side, they have consequences. And Members in these cases do not get the right explanations, the right goals, and you are already misleading us in some way at the start. I think this approach to law reform, in the novelty of laws, listen, but it's driven by all healthy logic, with common sense. I have already said in one case that the financial implications, if not for the budget, will be, for consumers, because these matters are substantially different than they were written, but in this case I think there is still a departure from what you wrote in the explanation of the law. That's not how you do it! If we write some goals, then the corrections must go in line with these objectives until the end of the law. But not to write a fairy tale, we suggest I don't know what, but we take something the fifth. At the suggestion of the coalition and the parliamentary clubs and the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups! That's insane! And then somebody tell me that this isn't some kind of back-up game. Then how can we afford to privatize in a law that has no financial implications. If it has any financial implications for the state budget, it is privatisation; and this is important! We're talking about large percentages of energy assets, these are objects that are worth 10, I don't know, total assets, I don't know hundreds of billions, I'm talking about privatisation of this, and it doesn't have any financial effects. I know someone who can afford it, except our government and those who monitor this government. I mean, that's incorrect, and I'd like to say, in fact, that the explanations we get, which are accompanied by laws, are false. They're false explanations! And then to ask us to accept here a matter that I'm supposed to have, I don't know, just a coordination task, is, I'd say, very confused with all the normal things, that I don't say anything worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u100	I've got two more discussers, and then he gets the word "minister." It'll be easier for you to answer everything. Franci Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. I believe it is questionable in the context of the urgent procedure for the adoption of a new energy law. to decide, of course, on such an important issue as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u102	However, we are in the amendment to Article 78. I would therefore like to ask about this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Yes, Mr. President, I don't understand why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u104	You're talking about a procedure that's been defined, accepted, and we're already [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u105	No, no, no, I, if you'll excuse me, will be discussing the amendment to Article 78. This amendment speaks mainly of the extent to which the state will privatise the system. And this amendment is actually a brand new amendment that is exempt from the concept of this law. So it raises a very important question where the private sector in the field of energy will go in this key area. It's in a package of European legislation. I believe that for this issue and for this decision it is probably necessary to take some more time to actually make a responsible decision on where private capital in the field of energy will go. And this is probably not the task of this week, when it is actually the primary purpose of this national assembly to bring legislation into line with the legal order of the European Union in those segments where we need it. And I think it would be most appropriate if, of course, this amendment were withdrawn, or if the proponents had withdrawn it, and that they would take some time for a thorough discussion of what the national interest is here, where the state will release private capital and in what time. Therefore, I think it would be most reasonable not to vote on this amendment at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Branko Janc gets the word he wanted, then the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Maybe just for a little while. I want to explain. So these fears that have now been expressed here are, of course, superfluous. On the contrary! The existing law, the existing and applicable law in Article 120 does not talk about this, so it only speaks of the possibility of privatisation of production companies. We want to limit the privatisation rate to a maximum of 49% by this law; therefore, the production companies which are integrated in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding remain in the majority state ownership. And I think it is necessary, of course, to read two documents and have both on the table to avoid fears or even the obvious coalition to propose something that needs further thought. That is exactly what I think is necessary in the share proposed, in my view, also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you, Branko Janc. The Minister now has the floor to explain matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Look, this question has been dealt with here in the National Assembly for many, many months, more than half a year. Even a public presentation of the opinions was organised on this subject. This is a question from the national energy programme. In the National Energy Programme, Rapporteur No. 29, page 128, the preservation of the country's essential ownership share in energy companies of national importance is specifically defined. And what this article is now saying and the dictatorship is improving the amendment of the three parliamentary groups is nothing more than concreteisation, what it already says here. Into was admitted by the National Assembly a month ago. After the summer hearing, including a public presentation of the opinions, so there is no here - this discussion has been an issue and Parliament has already made a very conscious decision on this. And there was no amendment here, not from the coalition or from the opposition. You all agreed to that. This part would not have been discussed in the form of parliamentary amendments. This is how Parliament dealt with and adopted this once a month ago. What I would like to stress is that what Mr Janc has said has proved to be true. The current energy law makes it possible to privatize 100%, everything. Here we propose on the basis of the national energy programme, which you adopted a month ago, the limit of this to the maximum allowable part. Why? In Europe, it has been shown that anywhere, and in America at all, wherever they privatized production units, we are now talking about this, but we could also talk about distribution, but prices have not gone up everywhere. Therefore, the National Energy Programme, which you have adopted, provides that it is an element that State ownership is an element of supply stability. It's simply about, we can say, natural monopolies, which are on limited transport routes, if we had 400 kilovolts of power on all sides, and so that production in our neighborhood would be much more than consumption, then it might be pointless. However, this is not the case, as production restrictions across Europe are now increasingly a problem, and this is still an important element of electricity supply stability. And now in this law, exactly what has already been adopted in the national energy programme, has only become concrete. And that's what I'd like to say is that there wouldn't be a bad taste after that, because it might have been understood by Ambassador Tank's performance. This law does not speak of what will now be privatized. Each privatisation programme must be approved or any privatisation should be approved in advance in the National Assembly - the Public Finance Act says that, together with the consideration of the State budget, a list of legal persons who intend to be privatised in the next year or where part or all of the ownership of the State is intended to be sold. And, let's say, we're selling the Nigger Rush factory out of the holding company now. We're looking for a buyer, and we can't find him. I have to say, for now. But the possible divestment of the Ruša Nitrogen factory was confirmed by you in the consideration of the budget for this year; it was explicitly stated that we were allowed to go to the privatisation programme at all. This law doesn't change that into anything. If ever - in my mandate - it will certainly not - but if a piece of the holding company is ever to be privatised to a maximum of 49%, as this article or amendment now foresees, then this will first require prior approval in the National Assembly. I would therefore like to remove all fears that this now brings some over the generally applicable rules for the privatisation of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Thank you very much. My friend Sok has one more word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Once again, under this package of legislative adaptation, something completely different is now being adopted here in the European Union. And this also shows that these amendments are being put here orally, although it is possible to agree with this amendment, proposed by Janc, to delete Article 78, third paragraph. But, look, this amendment, this second paragraph, the new second paragraph, says: "The share of the state in electricity production companies," says I understand that this is all of the power plants, these are power generation companies, "in which the state has a larger share of more than 75% of the basic capital on the day of the entry into force of this law, by privatisation this share must not be reduced below 51%." And of course, Mr Minister, I ask you if you can answer which companies are at the moment where the state share is greater than 75%, and which are those where the share is less than 75%. Because where the share is less than 75% at this point, it will be possible to privatise more than 49%. This comes from this amendment. And I'm asking you to answer correctly because there is no such thing, and so far you haven't answered what these companies are, so we'll know.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. All manufacturing companies, with the exception of one, are in over 75% of the country's ownership. This one is a thermoelectric heating Ljubljana, which is 66% owned by the country, about 66%. This is what we are selling right now, but the sale was approved in Parliament last year and is now a privatisation programme under way. However, once again, I must point out that the national energy programme obliges us to keep more than 50% of our cogeneration companies in the country or together with the municipality. Nor will there be a divestment of the majority share outside the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you. I think I can conclude the debate on this amendment. In order to know exactly what we are voting on, I will read the amendment once again because it has been partially supplemented: "In Article 78, a new second paragraph is added, which reads as follows: 'The ownership share of the State in electricity production companies where the State has a higher share of more than 75% of the basic capital as of the date of entry into force of this law, this share must not be reduced by privatisation below 51%.'.. Paragraph 3 is deleted." I now put this amendment to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 38 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. And we're done with the second treatment. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1, 13, 43, 58 and 78 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I do not see this proposal, so we will move on to the issue of coherence. I ask, is the law consistent with the amendments adopted? It's consistent. And we're going to make a full decision on the law. We're voting. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 49 of us present, and 39 of us voted in favour of the law, against 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, given that the Secretary-General's address will then be delivered at 2 p.m. today, I will interrupt the agenda item. [[...]] In the meantime, I apologize, but since this visit by the Secretary-General of the Union will then be here in Parliament at 2 p.m., I will interrupt the meeting at 1 p.m. at 1 p.m. We'll reconvene at 1:00. 55 minutes. I want us here at this hour so we can be present at that event. Until then, we're moving to the next item on the agenda, that's on 7. Period of the day - Proposal for a Tax Procedure Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Milojka Kolar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members!There is yet another important tax law before you, this is a proposal for a tax procedure law. This is a provision which primarily regulates the rights and duties of taxpayers and the procedure, the way in which taxes are collected. It is therefore a regulation that we need to implement the taxation laws adopted in the past weeks and months. The solutions contained in this bill allow for the implementation of all these rules in an operational manner. The Tax Procedure Act, which is currently in force, was adopted in early 1996 and entered into force on 1 January 1997. It was subsequently amended several times in individual articles. In view of the radical changes in material tax laws, to mention only the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax, as well as changes in other regulations, the Government considers that the applicable tax procedure law no longer provides sufficient legal certainty for taxpayers. Finally, Slovenia's entry into the European Union has consequences for tax collection, both in terms of exchange of information on taxpayers for individual taxes and recovery of tax debts for other Member States of the European Union, while foreign tax authorities will also recover Slovenian tax debts in other Member States of the European Union in the same way. Given the growing involvement of Slovenia in international flows, the implementation of double taxation agreements is also an important area that is regulated in the new proposal for a tax procedure that has not been regulated so far. It takes into account the fact that the Government proposes to the National Assembly to consider a new proposal for a tax procedure governing the tax collection procedure, that is to say, the whole process from the determination and calculation of the tax liability to its payment or, in the case of non-payments, its recovery or enforcement of public duties. It accurately defines international cooperation in the tax field and regulates the specificities of the taxation. In short, if I summarise the substantive innovations that the proposed law brings: for the first time, the deadlines for issuing the minutes are reduced so that the inspector will have to issue the minutes instead of 15 in 10 days after the final review by the taxpayer. Furthermore, certain deadlines for the payment of taxes are being amended; specific, more precise provisions are as regards the assessment of the potential tax base; then they are much more detailed and precise principles and procedures for tax inspection, which have not been defined so far. Specific provisions concerning the treatment of tax accounts as taxable persons' acts in the tax control procedure in cases where the tax is determined and paid on that basis - the so-called system of taxation. And in particular, or in very detail, late interest on the tax needs specified in Article 31 is regulated in order to avoid misunderstandings or dilemmas, in what way or method these late interest is accounted for. The law also includes provisions relating to the implementation of both new laws, both on income and on corporate income tax. The biggest shift or change is towards the self-taxation of taxpayers, which represents a modern tax collection system and is made in the area of self-sustainment of activities where the taxpayers will calculate their own taxes as a tax deduction. However, the rate of income is maintained by the current system whereby the tax authority will, on the basis of the taxable person’s forecast, levy the income. In the area of corporate income taxation, there are fairly certain procedures from the point of view of administration which impose certain obligations on taxpayers. The latter part includes reporting on interest incomes that are required and meet the requirements of the so-called European Interest Directive. It is proposed that the law enter into force the following day after the publication, and would apply, namely, to the part on tax enforcement and the part relating to the European Data Exchange Directive, which is the fourth part of the Act, with effect from 1 May of this year, and the rest of the Act would apply as from 1 January 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you, Secretary of State. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law to be a parent labour force. The report is very extensive, and it's on your desk. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. Janez Podobnik, you have the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! Following an urgent procedure, the government has provided us with a proposal for a tax procedure, the text of which already shows that the law must be adopted by 1 May, that is to say, until the entry into the European Union; if this does not happen, there will be a legal void, and at the same time could be a breach of our commitments. Despite the fact that there is a commitment already made in Brussels, it is important, however, in our opinion, that the decision to be so important, including an expertly demanding or demanding law, such as that adopted under an urgent procedure, is also very questionable from the point of view of the functioning of the National Assembly. It is therefore necessary to say here that, in this case, the government must accept the consequences, both political and legal, in relation to this bill, because it is formally sufficient to comply with the acquis of the European Union, but, on the other hand, it repeatedly exceeds certain legal standards and rules that have already been adopted on international bodies. We must be aware that procedural legislation is the foundation of a democratic society. Procedural rules are therefore those that guarantee the standards of the rule of law and also democratic societies. This is particularly important in the field of tax procedure. In the tax-debtor relationship, the most typical participants in the relationship appear on one side of the country and on the other hand the taxable person. It follows that the relationship between them is completely uneven, since the State is acting against a taxable person, prescribes his obligation and the way he will have to settle it, and all consequences if he does not do so in the manner and time limits prescribed for him. This happens beyond the will of the taxpayer and is an elephant on the premise of satisfying public needs for the benefit of all citizens. More than once, the expressed public interest is sought to substitute for the consent of the tax-administrative will. It is our view that this is the right thing to do, but we must be aware that there is a conflict of interest among taxpayers, namely their own interest and public interest. With all taxpayers more inclined to their own, economical ones, they could also call it selfish interest. It's kind of completely understandable. This is precisely why material and procedural tax legislation is so sensitive. However, the fact is that a country without taxes cannot exist. It is even more important that the state find the right measure of interference with the income and property of taxpayers. They can soon find out that the country is taking too much of their taxes. In order to prevent or mitigate such beliefs, the legislator must help, in particular, with the executive power, by adopting such material and procedural laws as are clear, just, legal and enforceable in the spirit of the adopted one. Unfortunately, we need to assess that in this case, in the case of this law, the country has fallen on this exam. Our tax legislation is not the most optimal, but it is sometimes totally unacceptable and inappropriate for the rule of law. On the basis of these assumptions, we expected that the new tax procedure law would be fairer, clearer and generally better than the current one. In this context, we expected to improve the rules both for the state and for the taxpayers we expected a legal proposal that would codify tax procedural law in one law for reasons of legal certainty, but not that the proposal still largely refers to or is being subsidised in conjunction with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, such a concept would be expected to regulate the appeal route or the course of judicial protection in a way that would no longer have the "quasi" or the three-stage protection of decisions issued in the tax procedure in the form of a complaint and an administrative dispute. We therefore expected a modern codification of tax law with all principles and procedural rules, and a reordering of legal remedies towards independent financial senators, such as in Austria, or a financial court in the case of Germany, and following the example of some other European countries. Mr. President, did you limit my debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Yeah, for five minutes, it's in the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u119	In the context of an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Lock up the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u121	So, I expected that, already in the fact that we are in the vote on the urgent procedure, we will be able to deliver our position in full. There's an emergency procedure here, and there's no reason to limit my discussion, but if that's the case, then I won't go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word would be Master Diaci, he's not, Master Andrey Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, of course, I am also joining my predecessor's finding that it is unacceptable to have such an important law as the Tax Procedure Act, which does not contain only provisions and coordination with European regulations and does not align our legal order with European law - this is just one piece of this system law - that we adopt this law overnight, quickly. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also wanted to reclassify this process into a regular procedure so that we could have more time and, of course, so that we could deal with this material more qualitatively. For we know that in this procedural area of tax collection, or in the regulation setting out the tax procedure, there have been many problems so far, many inconsistencies and many highly justified protests and angers of Slovenian taxpayers. Many comments from the legislative and legal services prove, of course, that such a way of adopting such important legislation is inappropriate. Therefore, I believe that those who support this law today will also bear all the potential responsibility even possibly for such cases as have occurred in the case of deleted cases, when many in this House have shown the culprits at some time of a quick "horuk" adoption of laws and decisions and, of course, some of the consequences that we have today and we will probably feel them in the future. I do not believe that one who raises the carton today or who pushes the "for" button will do so even in a few years, unless the state has adopted appropriate procedures, regulations, which is why we have problems. However, I have to say that the new tax procedure law is actually more comprehensive than it has so far regulated the tax procedure, of course as a particular type of administrative procedure. It also takes into account the most important shortcomings of the current procedure, which have been proven in practice but not in all, I will try to draw attention to some. It introduces matters related to the integration of directives into the European Community or international cooperation in the tax field. It also introduces some of the more appropriate solutions that we knew in the tax procedure before the creation of the common tax service, but I would point out that, according to our assessment, it does not solve the key problem, which is probably a problem that almost every Member will ever experience in his office when the tax administration measures or issues a tax assessment decision. Of course, the taxable person complains, the complaint does not hold back the enforcement of the decision, the tax must be paid and then the second stage or even the instant draw, draws the proceedings indefinitely, into extremely long, long stories. The State converts the money it received on the basis that the complaint did not delay enforcement and such a tax beneficiary waits, waits, waits and waits. His money, of course, which could serve him for some other important business investment, is in state hands. I think that's extremely unacceptable. Nor does this new law on the tax procedure introduce any liability of the tax service, the specific tax inspectors, or those referees or those higher administrative workers who decide what it is or how it is; it is said whether or not the decisions on complaints are issued within the prescribed time limits, or whether the complaints are justified as to the consequences for the official himself. This is what we miss here. That's not in this marriage, and that's not right. Of course, there is a whole lot of other ambiguities under this law that would require more attention. The tax administration still has a great deal of discretion, operating on the basis of some of its internal instructions, which are unclear to taxpayers. The tax authority shall make a discretionary decision, as it appears to it, because it has instructions which are known only to it and not to the debtor. Not to mention the catastrophic informatics of tax services and extremely lacking records. This is the basic source of the problems of the functioning of the tax service, which, unfortunately, is not being addressed by this law. To conclude, I would point out only the following. Large taxpayers are still those "gold cows" that are kept, nurtured, and small taxpayers are those who, at every turn of the tax service, need to be stripped to the bare skin. This is not the right and correct discretion of the instructions and the detailed non-regulation of the procedure allows this. The new marriage, unfortunately, doesn't end it, so we won't back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Thank you. This was the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Even Leopold Grošelj will have a say in the position of the United Nations Group before the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable co-workers of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the UK Group, we also note that, within the legal system and within the framework of the tax system, the most important tax procedure law, which was already in force in 1996, has been amended several times since then and has been supplemented. The amendment of the law was due mainly to the need to supplement the tax procedure from the point of view of tax administration in tax authorities, including the enforcement of material tax laws, the adaptation and amendment of the legal order of the European Union, legislative changes in the field of state administration and also the findings of the Constitutional Court that certain provisions of the law are inconsistent with the Constitution. In the light of the above findings, the applicant submitted a new tax procedure law, the basic objective of which is to regulate the collection of taxes by making the relationship between taxpayers and taxpayers as much as possible. By this definition, the taxable person must be of the origin that the fulfilment of the tax obligations is their fundamental civic value and, on the other hand, must ensure the functioning of the authorities empowered to supervise the implementation of the tax law by establishing the proportionality between the rights and obligations of taxable persons and between the rights and obligations of the tax authorities. In this regard, the proposal for a law is more precise than it has so far established the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax authority. More emphasis is placed on the protection of tax confidentiality, which is also directly linked to the protection of personal data. The Home Finance and Monetary Policy Committee has adopted several amendments to the draft law, which are editorial in nature or follow the comments of the law of the service. According to our assessment, some amendments also specify more precisely the content of the legal provision in terms of clarity or understanding of terms and expressions. Thus, for example, Article 8 of the Act is substantively supplemented, where the provision on how the right of a taxable person to information relating to the functioning of the tax system and to information relating to his tax liability is regulated in a more appropriate manner. In the parliamentary group, we also have a reservation pending the completion of Article 29 of the Tax Act on the order of payment of taxes and related duties. In addition to the amendments to the first paragraph of Article 31, under which an additional increase in the annual interest rate may be applied to the calculation of the new daily late rate, a comfortable way in which an additional increase in the annual interest rate is to be eliminated. The amendment to paragraph 27 above also redefines that it is not possible to leave the discretionary decision of the tax authority to determine the criteria or criteria for determining the Ministry of Finance as uniformly as possible. In defining the amendments of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the proposal for a tax policy law, we have followed the emphasis, if I may say so, on legislative and legal services or on the content of editorial natures or corrections and we have also voted in the amendment bill. In the UK Group, we are aware of the necessity of adopting a tax policy law, as this provides an appropriate legal framework for the implementation of the tax system in the Republic of Slovenia, which has already been partially upgraded or is being upgraded. It was true that, on the proposal of the law, 61 amendments were tabled by the drafter, but it should be said that 47 amendments are editorial in nature or follow the comments of the legislative service, and 14 is, according to our assessment, such or those who redefine the content of the law. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will vote in favour of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I hereby adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up at 13.55. During this time, the Chamber will be prepared for the performance of the Secretary-General of NATO. With the point and the session we will continue 10 minutes after the end of his performance, the agenda item, 10 minutes after the performance, the President also asked me to announce.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Good afternoon. Good-bye to all of you. Representatives of the government, representatives of the diplomatic assembly and, of course, colleagues. It is a great pleasure for us that after Slovenia was first invited to join NATO, after our people at the referendum decided to accept this invitation and after the ceremonial procedures for Slovenia's final entry into NATO, we can now host the Secretary-General of NATO in Ljubljana in the National Assembly. It is our great joy and honor to have him with us. I will ask him to address the National Assembly, and then the Secretary-General is ready to answer your questions as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me first to tell you what great honour and joy I have been invited to address and address the Slovenian National Assembly so shortly after Slovenia's accession to NATO and only a few days before Slovenia enters the European Union. Mr President, honourable Members. On the evening of 26 June 1991, President Milan Kučan said in his speech at the ceremony announcement of an independent Slovenia outside this parliamentary building: "Tonight is a dream permit; tomorrow is a new day." The Slovenians made their dream come true. Other dreams have now come true, by becoming members of NATO and very soon of the European Union. Let me start by welcoming you to the Nate family. You can legitimately claim that your membership in NATO is a prize; the reward for all the hard work you have put into preparing your country for entry is a deserved achievement. But what does it mean to be a NATO member? First of all, NATO membership means that we no longer have to worry about the territorial integrity of the country. This also means that we never have to face security challenges on our own again. But NATO membership is much more than just physical protection Membership in NATO also means that we are part of a sort of transatlantic project of making changes. This means participating in joint efforts to strengthen security and stability in Europe and beyond, in accordance with our values and interests. Bringing stability to Afghanistan is undoubtedly the most recent and most difficult part of our transatlantic project. But if we want to win the war against terrorism, then it is imperative that we achieve this victory with peace in Afghanistan. We must not cultivate the illusions of time and effort that this country will need to be stable and regulated again. But we will finish this task, for when Nato does some work, this work must also be successfully completed. NATO's operation in Afghanistan shows that our alliance is still the most effective organization in the world to create, manage and support large, multinational and long-term peace-support operations. For this reason, NATO has become an invaluable asset for the international community, and I have no doubt that the Alliance will continue to be necessary for robust peace-support operations in the future. In order to meet these requirements, however, we need to develop modern military capabilities with forces that can be quickly installed. Our progress is already very good. The first elements of NATO's rapid intervention force are already ready and allies are already improving key areas, such as strategic movements, command and control, although we have a long way to go. We are strengthening our defense against weapons of mass destruction and radically renewing our military command structure so that it will be more delicate and more flexible in that the new command will be particularly devoted to transformation. But more needs to be done, honourable Members, and all allies must do so; both old and new, both large and small. In particular, we must all take very seriously the questions of the possibility of deploying, classifying and using these forces. Let me explain this jargon. European allies and Canada have a total of approximately one and a half million troops, more than two million, if added to the reserves, but with some 60,000 troops classified as multinational operations, they claim that their capacities are overloaded. Clearly, we must make our armed forces more useful. We need forces that are light, mobile, capable of carrying out a full range of allied missions, forces that can be quickly classified in long distances and that can remain ranked on the spot for as long as necessary. If we do not do so, we will soon reach a point where our political range will be greater than our military range. Afghanistan will by no means be the last crisis we face, and therefore I want all members, including Slovenia, to take military reforms seriously. This means that we need to set priorities and also spend what is needed so that we can quickly classify those forces where we really need them. The next priority of the Alliance, Mr President, is to strengthen relations with partner countries. In the Balkans and Afghanistan, soldiers from many partner countries operate hand in hand with NATO forces, just as the Slovenian forces have done for many years. This indicates the enormous strategic value acquired by such partnerships. With the recent enlargement of NATO, our remaining partner countries are becoming more diverse, both geographically and in terms of their security interests. This means that our partnership policy will have to enter a new phase, a phase marked by more individualised cooperation with partners, a stronger focus on cooperation with the Caucasus and Central Asia, and a stronger focus on connectivity, so that we can face new threats such as terrorism. We must also build closer and more effective relations with Russia. Over the past decade, we have been trying to develop a real partnership between NATO and Russia, but it has always been the stereotypes of the cold war that have been on the road, and that has now changed deeply. Today, NATO and Russia are participating in a wide range of security issues from crisis management to the fight against terrorism, from solving the problems of chemical attacks to search and rescue operations at sea. Every day it becomes increasingly clear that Russia and NATO are urgent partners in the face of common challenges. Of course, the objective of strengthening our partnerships is not limited to individual countries. It also includes strengthening relations with other institutions. The reason for that is clear. An increasingly complex and complex security environment requires all our institutions to unite to unite their forces, because only then will we have access to the full range of political, economic and military resources that we need for a security policy that has its eyes turned to the future. Of course, the promotion of our strategic partnership with the European Union is a key priority. Good progress has already been made. In the first place, we need to prepare the ground so that NATO can support operations under the leadership of the European Union. In this way, the European Union will be able to gradually assume several of our common responsibilities for stability, including in the Balkans. Later this year, we hope that important security responsibilities will be handed over to the European Union in the area of Bosnia. In this way, the European Union will be able to become an effective security player without doubling the resources and abilities already developed by NATO. But let me stress, honourable Members, that NATO will by no means pack the suitcase and go home from Bosnia and Herzegovina. He will then retain his command in Sarajevo and continue to help Bosnia in areas such as defence reform and the fight against terrorism. Also in ensuring that persons accused of war crimes will end up in The Hague in an international court. In addition, NATO will, of course, remain strongly engaged in Kosovo, because clearly - and perhaps also regret - our work is not finished there yet. Cooperation between NATO and the European Union in the Balkans is a good start for a strategic partnership between the two institutions. But more needs to be done; we need to expand the consultations and cooperation between the two institutions through a range of security challenges, from combating terrorism to preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Then the European Union shares the same strategic goals. It is time that our institutional relations also begin to reflect this fact. The need for close cooperation between NATO and the European Union is also becoming evident in another region, in a region called the "great Middle East". It is becoming increasingly clear that problems in this region must not be left to ourselves. Of course, I am concerned that strengthening security and political and economic progress in this region is a major task. It will require a good understanding of their ambitions and concerns. It will also require strong engagement of countries in the region. It will also require a new level of cooperation between our international institutions. Then he is ready to play his part in the context of the wider international community. When our heads of government and country meet in Istanbul at the end of June, this strategy will be given new content. They're going to take our joint vision of Nate's new relationship further. A strong alliance confronts the new security challenges of this century: terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and failed states. The Alliance must be prepared to send its forces wherever they are needed and to defend itself against threats from wherever they come. There must be an alliance that will be more open in its partnership and that will reach towards the southern Mediterranean and wider in the region. It must become an alliance whose members are fully committed to developing the skills needed to strengthen this ambitious plan. Mr President, honourable Members, as a member of NATO and across a few European Union, Slovenia has great opportunities to participate in this strategy so that it can create a strategic environment in such remote places as Central Asia and the Middle East. I'm sure you'll play such a role. But also much closer to home, in your immediate neighborhood, Slovenia can play a very important role. As the first country of the former Yugoslavia to enter NATO and at the same time into the European Union, your country can serve as a model for a successful transition, a successful transition. And also as a light of hope for those countries that have yet to complete their transition. The story of your country's success is true proof that true commitment and hard work are being paid off. I'm glad for Slovenia that it's achieved as much as it is. I am proud that NATO has a country like yours, Slovenia, during its membership. Thank you very much for your attention. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your performance in front of the National Assembly, Mr Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, Secretary General of NATO. I'm going to ask you to take your headphones, so you can hear questions from our colleagues and colleagues. Who wants to ask the first question? Please, Comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Dear Secretary-General. First of all, thank you for your encouraging and beautiful words about Slovenia. Allow me to greet you sincerely on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. And I'll ask you the next question. The global public is particularly concerned about the complex situation in Iraq. We also closely monitor in Slovenia the thinking of possible involvement of NATO in this region. Given that the current priority of the NATO Alliance is to strengthen the mission to maintain peace in Afghanistan, I wonder: How do you respond to the opinion of US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld that NATO's next step is his greater role in Iraq? So how could we explain Nate's involvement, especially given the fact that Spain, as a NATO member, has taken a decision to withdraw its troops? And: What role can the United Nations play in this regard? And of course: How does this hold affect the complex situation in the Eastern Balkans, because, as you know, Slovenia supports the further expansion of NATO also to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u131	The question was raised by a colleague of Marsič from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. A colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will ask the question, Dr Brejc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary-General! Within the framework of the Convention on the Future of Europe, there has been a great deal of discussion on the design of the European Union defence forces. This was in the part where we were talking about a common foreign and security policy. I would like to ask: What is your view on the formation of the European Union defence forces? And in this regard, what will be Nate's role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Thank you very much. My colleague will ask the question on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u134	[[...]] [[There's no microphone on.]] Mr. Secretary-General. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u135	It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Dear Mr. Secretary-General! On behalf of the Group of Members of the United Nations List of Social Democrats, I am pleased to welcome you to the National Assembly. The Republic of Slovenia is very interested in peace and the development of democratic relations in the Balkans, which is why it greatly appreciates Nate's efforts in this direction. However, since especially in recent times the uncertainty about the development of democracy is particularly present in Kosovo, allow me to ask your opinion: How could NATO, as well as the international community, do more to find a lasting solution to this issue in the Balkans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the question will be raised by Comrade Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary-General, also on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members, a warm welcome. In your performance, you mentioned that the Alliance has decided to face the new security challenges of the 21st century - the threat of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This means that the Alliance will then have to develop the new modern military instruments necessary to carry out such operations. Mr Secretary-General: Will the current level of financial resources of the Member States of the Alliance be sufficient for these new challenges?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask a question? No, no, no. Mr Secretary-General, the word for answers is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also thank the honourable Members for their kind words, which have been directed at me. Once again, it is my great pleasure to be here today. I myself have been a Member for 16 years in my own country, so it is never a problem for me to come to Parliament and talk to Members. Mr Marsič, as far as Iraq is concerned, I believe that it is crucial to reconsider NATO's more structured role in Iraq and that a number of conditions must be met in this regard first. In the first place, this is about the role and position of the United Nations. I think it is essential that the UN Security Council adopt a new resolution in which it will not only give the mandate to the international stabilisation forces, which, in my opinion, is crucial that discussions within NATO can begin, but also underline the key role that the United Nations must play after the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq on 30 June to their government. Speaking of sovereignty, that's a second condition for this debate. I am of the opinion that the requirement must come from a sovereign, credible Iraqi government, a requirement aimed at the international community, the UN or NATO to participate in such stabilisation forces. In such circumstances, I can imagine that there will be a debate between the allies. You know, after the departure of the Spanish forces, 17 of the 26 Member States of NATO remained in Iraq with their forces, and I imagine that the Alliance will lead a positive debate on a possible structured role in Iraq. Let me add another important element here. If there will be a Security Council resolution, if the conditions I have mentioned are met, then I sincerely hope that, in addition to NATO's allies, there will be non-NATO countries, especially Arab countries, which would participate in the stabilisation forces in Iraq. But ultimately, the Iraqi government will have to decide for itself what is going on in their country. Mr Brejc, I have always said that the Secretary-General of NATO, who is an Atlanticist at heart, is before you, but he is also the Secretary-General with a strong European mission. What do I mean? I therefore think that the European Union must also think about further integration when it comes to security and defence policy. But here's some amp or, we could say, some kind of condition. And that condition for me lies in the word complementarity. Once the European Union, for example, has established these fighting groups, which have been proposed by many countries, these forces must always be complementary to NATO and, in my opinion, the European Union must not duplicate what already exists in NATO, we do not need another NATO connection. But for the European Union to be able to assume much of the burden and for the European Union to develop its defensive identity, its security identity, then it is good, but we must not forget that this must be complementary to NATO and without duplicating NATO structures. Last year, if you remember, there was a debate in the European Union on a command that could somehow lead to the duplication of NATO structures, and I do not think that the debate was directed in the right direction. Mr Potč, I think you touched on an important issue when you mentioned Kosovo, because I was there yesterday and I was there exactly a month ago and I spoke to all relevant actors in Kosovo again yesterday. First, let me say this: KFOR, where Slovenia is also involved, is there and remains there. After the horrendous ethical violence we witnessed at the end of March, I think KFOR has done a very good job, but KFOR has to stay there, because Kosovo is far from stability, the situation is tense and fragile, so I believe that then it will remain in Kosovo, KFOR will remain in Kosovo with the forces that are needed to ensure security and stability in Kosovo. And if the speech is about Kosovo, then together with you I find that KFOR will not, of course, be able to have soldiers in front of every Serbian house, in front of every Serbian church or monastery. I think that what has happened is extremely serious and political effects of what has happened, and the criticism of most of the leadership of the international community has not yet somehow reached the bottom of the matter. And when I was in Kosovo yesterday, I was disappointed because I don't see any progress; what I see is some radical factions in Kosovo, who feel that by promoting ethnic violence, they can better achieve their political goals, but here they are making a capital mistake, their political goal will be increasingly distant if these things happen again, and I'm afraid this can happen again. And the international community must do everything in its power, under the leadership of the UN, under the leadership of UMNIC, to prevent this and to persuade the Albanian majority leadership to take responsibility. I said that yesterday in Pristina, and I repeat it here in the National Assembly: if you are a political leader, then you must lead, then you must make important decisions. And we are witnessing a lack of political leadership in Kosovo, unfortunately. What I said yesterday, and what I repeat today, is that we have reached the moment when the Serb minority community must also respect standards, because we must continue to talk about standards. Then he'll do his job, Mr. Potch. And I congratulate Slovenia on participating in this very important operation. Mr Podobnik, regarding the new challenges that I have mentioned myself. In fact, terrorism is one of these. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is another such challenge. And then, in fact, it has to adapt to these new challenges. I am of the opinion that the most thorough process of transformation that has ever taken place in NATO is now under way. This began under the very capable leadership of my predecessor, Lord George Robertson, and I see my task in completing this transformation process. In my speech I said something about our powers It is not acceptable that we have a million and a half women and men in uniform and that we have so few people in Afghanistan. That's not acceptable. Then he never left his commitments unfulfilled, and then he can't do it today. And that can mean, honourable Members, that there will be a debate, not on the level of funding, but on the way in which the forces are financed, on how to finance our collective instruments that we have at our disposal. I do not think that any debate is excluded when it comes to this issue. However, I know this, and I hope that the allies, especially the allies on the European side of the Atlantic, will pay sufficient attention to the defence budgets so that these budgets will not be reduced, but increase that we will reach 2% of GDP. I know that Slovenia has a clear ambition to reach these 2% of GDP for defence in its budget. To conclude, because I am sitting in the Slovenian Parliament, I am aware of how important small countries can be in achieving success. Let me give you an example: a fire brigade, firefighters are critical to the functioning of the mission in Afghanistan, firefighting equipment and firefighters; we did not have that. Slovenia has decided to send a fire brigade there. These are the resources that are urgently needed, which are critical to the success of the mission; without them, the mission cannot be successful. In other words, developing 'nil skills', as I call them in jargon, is very important. These are abilities that some countries do not have, the larger countries do not have, and from this point of view Slovenia can indeed create an important difference. And that is why I encourage you here in the National Assembly to remain so committed to supporting the North Atlantic Alliance in operations that run close to your home and in more distant places.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Your Excellency, high choir! Mr Secretary-General, thank you very much for your visit to the National Assembly, your first visit, I hope not for the last visit. By all means, you have been able to convince my colleagues that Slovenia accepts all the obligations, all the rights and obligations associated with membership in Ljubljana after your performance, according to questions and comments, between my colleagues, that Slovenia accepts all the obligations, all the rights and obligations associated with membership in relation to NATO, that we are happy to contribute to the achievement of the common goals of the Alliance and that we personally wish you all the best on this path. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Ten minutes off, then we move on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u142	Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a tax procedure law. We will hear three more points of view from the members of this group: I invite you to the word mags. Blaža Kavčič will present to us the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we have taken very seriously the position of the government, which was aimed at highlighting the importance of this law as one of the key laws in the tax package. That is why, of course, we have also supported the law in all its stages, which I must say has not been easy for us. It was not easy for us because it was a very extensive marriage with over 400 articles that could not be studied about all the details and whose addition took place, as many here know, yesterday until about 10:30 p.m. in the National Assembly. This, of course, gives a certain weight to the already expressed opinions of other parliamentary groups, which also raised a certain reserve until such adoption of laws. It is also understandable that, as a coalition party, we have supported this issue, not least because we have seen many improvements in the draft law and because we believe that the principles that we expect from this procedural law are actually present in this law. In Slovenia we have in addition to material laws governing the tax area a number of procedural laws, and this law on the tax procedure is most important than procedural laws. The analysis has shown that the government has sought to incorporate an even higher degree of those principles into this law than are present in our legislation. This is the principle of legality, then the right to certainty of all participants in the tax procedure, then the legality of the determination of rights and obligations, then the very design of the facts, then the promotion of compliance with tax obligations, the obligation to act in good faith, the right of every taxpayer to impartiality, the right to information and assistance and the right to privacy. During the adoption phase, we adopted all the additions or, as a parliamentary group, supported all the additions proposed by the legislative and legal service to improve this law. We have also supported some additions of stakeholders, and we have also supported some additions of opposition parties. Above all, I think it is important to point out that, in our view, we have supported a supplement that introduces a significantly higher level of representation of the interests of taxpayers in the principle of informing participants in the tax procedure. So these are the solutions that, in our view, currently satisfactorily address these issues and which, in our belief, also reflect the attitude of our government to continue to develop tax legislation in the direction of those who are committed to a more friendly solution and in the direction of more active support for a positive environment for the development of entrepreneurship. With this big step for Slovenian "fiscus", we probably did not take a big step for humanity, but we have taken or will make a positive step. It is important to stress that, according to our Group of Members, the development of tax legislation has not yet been completed and that the positions expressed will continue to be represented. The law in the form presented, together with the addition, will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Thank you very much. There are no representatives of the Slovenian National Party. I invite the representative of the New Slovenia Group, Dr. Andre Bajuk, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's a very nice greeting to the government representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Tax Procedure Act has 407 articles, and in this regard we have tabled numerous amendments during the meeting and before the meeting of the Finance Committee and other monetary policy, although much more would be necessary if Slovenia wanted to bring even more closer to the protection of the rights of taxpayers and to reduce the discretionary powers of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. On the Committee, three very important amendments were adopted by our proposed amendments under the amendments to the Committee, the first to Article 8 - with this proposal we have identified the content of the right to inform taxpayers. By 61a, we were able to prescribe an obligation for the tax authority, according to Durs, to maintain a single tax record for each taxable person by type of tax, while the taxpayers will have the right to look into their tax records and to obtain a tax return. However, the regulation of uniform and modernly maintained tax records will be the responsibility of the Minister for Finance and not of the Director as so far. Article 37 - with the proposal, we have reached that, in the event of so-called severe economic damage, the tax authority itself will not assess the delay, but will have to take into account certain criteria and criteria which will be prescribed by the Minister for Finance. Otherwise, New Slovenia will not vote in favour of this law, for the following reasons, in the five minutes allowed by the Rules of Procedure, I will only focus on the key points. Firstly, in Slovenia it will not continue to matter what education a taxable person has, who is responsible for managing accounting or tax accounting and produces tax accounts and documents and keeps records. This could be anyone, education doesn't matter at all. The Government has rejected the amendment to Article 61 to provide that the Minister of Finance prescribes the education that such persons must have in respect of the various types of taxpayers. It would be really interesting to hear what would be answered to any student abroad today by Minister Dr. Marble in the course of his lectures on our successful transition to the question why in Slovenia, for example, an accountant could still be in the accounting service of anyone and why this should be authorised by accountants in other developed countries. Such criteria existed in previous legislation of the former common country. However, for Slovenia and our future, a great coalition has decided that this is not important. Secondly, in cases of forced settlement, the State, namely Durs and the public defender, will continue to write off or reduce tax liabilities to taxpayers in its own discretion, i.e. without predetermined criteria or criteria. The amendment we presented was not accepted. Third time. For tax confidentiality, we will continue to consider data on debtors who do not pay definitively established tax obligations within the statutory period, tax write-offs, tax liabilities data that change into capital investments and so on. This is clearly contrary to international standards on fiscal transparency. Article 39, paragraph 3, of the Company Act states that it is not possible to provide data on the breach of the law for commercial secrecy. The data that an economic undertaking or an entrepreneur does not settle tax obligations on time or in accordance with statutory deadlines is an important information on the business creditworthiness of a taxable person, especially in the case of the proposed regulation referred to in Article 30 of the Tax Procedure Act, by which they will have an absolute advantage, as in the current tax regime, over the settlement of other obligations of the taxable person. That's just one argument. Fourth time. Our regulations governing the functioning of the state administration and in this context of the tax administration do not specify where and to what extent and under which conditions the tax administration may transmit data processing to external operators. This law gives the tax administration a full discretion in determining to whom tax disclosures may be made, through the side door of Article 86, that confidential tax data may be transmitted to external operators. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] It is known that the former Minister of Finance Mitja Gaspari has paid the most person-paying tax to the external contractor, i.e. the income, the personal data of all citizens. This company, as an external contractor, hires students for the entry and processing of data. Where is tax confidentiality guaranteed here? Finally - excuse me, another 30 seconds - the government through the party of the door in determining the order of the settlement of tax liabilities in the event of a short-term insolvency of the taxpayer introduces the costs of the tax collection process. We can expect banks and other payment service providers to start charging as a special record-keeping service as well as the tax administration of their services and the state budget will receive a new fiscal resource. For these reasons, we cannot support this law. However, we will advocate that Slovenia will once have a system in which the State will respect taxpayers and that the tax administration will not have the discretionary relations and rights it has in the law so far and which continue to increase in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23.4.2004 [[check is on the benches]] . Procedural proposal, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on the tax procedure to be adopted today. We Members received a message today on almost 200 pages of printed text and are expected to express themselves in this regard. I think it's irresponsible to do that. We are aware of these responsibilities in the New Slovenia Group. This law circles the package of laws on tax procedures, on taxation of legal persons, on income, as well as other things that seriously interfere with our reality. This law has a kind of flaw. With regard to the discretion of the administrative authorities in deciding how tax procedures will be handled, who will be forgiven and who will not be forgiven. So, a certain administrative will. Then the law even allows the protection of personal data to be highlighted, so that the law we adopted yesterday will be compromised by this provision. In view of all that I have just stated, the New Slovenia Group cannot take responsibility for decisions in this regard. It therefore announces obstruction and will not take part in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The Procedural Proposal is also announced by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I am so predictable that you have just concluded that I will propose a procedural proposal, but you are right. That's right. Nor does the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group have to participate in, according to our assessment of irresponsible behaviour in such an important system law as the Tax Procedure Act. We accept it as a matter of urgency, although there are no arguments. It is true that part of the solutions related to the integration into the European Community are necessary to adopt up to 1.5. and that all arguments are there for this. However, the proposed law is much broader than the introduction by the State Secretary to the tax procedure and contains only part of the solutions linked to inclusion. We estimate that this law does not solve the key problems of the tax procedure that have appeared more than clearly so far. Finally, it is only from the Ombudsman's report that this is an issue where the number of complaints is increasing and, of course, the number of cases dealt with by the Ombudsman is increasing. The solutions envisaged in this law do not reduce the key weaknesses, I reiterate which are these. This is because complaints against decisions are resolved for an unreasonable period and there is no penalty for the tax service in order to give rise to judgment within a more reasonable period. This is a whole set of over-disseminations of tax authorities when deciding on the circumstances of the dose and later on other tax-related circumstances. These are decisions based on some of the internal instructions of the tax services. It is also a catastrophic information service and a failure to establish mandatory records in this area. In short, the new law, which is adopted for horace, also because of the procedure, does not offer an opportunity for Members to correct it a little. There was a whole bunch of comments from the law enforcement service. Thus, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not want to participate in the adoption of such an important law in such a way, and therefore predicts obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Thank you very much. So we heard two members of the group. The New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party announced obstruction and informed the National Assembly accordingly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments, which I am opening a debate on Article 8 and the amendment of the three coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote has not been a success, please have some attention. There are enough of us in the hall, we have found that in the fast counting, so obviously the first vote was unsuccessful due to the lack of attention. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. In 10 minutes, we will vote on the amendment to Article 8 for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 8. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 12 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to this Article. Anybody want a word? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The Government opposes the amendment because it goes to Article 12, because in essence the deletion of paragraph 5 would constitute a worse situation for the debtor, since this paragraph specifies when, on which day they cease to run late interest and this is favourable to the debtor. This would mean a worse matter, also in the fourth paragraph by replacing the number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Young Slovenia Party to Article 12. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, four Members and Members of Parliament voted against 38. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am opening a debate on Article 29 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group with a footnote, if adopted, the vote in the next will be irrelevant. Under 2 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u154	The government opposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm closing Mr. Pucko, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I ask the government if it has a written opinion that every amendment should then not say that it opposes, and they would read it to me, and they would get a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. I'm asking nicely for some concentration. It's been a long week, we all know that. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under Articles 1 to 29. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, who voted 2 to 37. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on amendment number two. We're voting. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, who voted 2 to 36. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 31st Article and amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The second time we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. At 3:25 a.m., we'll decide the third time on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u158	The voting apparatus did not work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-23-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Taking into account the fact that they are running faster on Friday afternoon, we can also make a third vote on the amendment a little faster. May I have your attention, please? Thirdly, we vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, with 6 Members and Members voting against 35. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am opening the debate on Article 37 and the amendment of the three coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 62. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, who voted 2 to 37. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment was not accepted. I am opening the debate and decision on Article 69 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, who voted 2 to 36. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In addition to 117, two amendments have been tabled. Under the 1st New Slovenia parliamentary group, under the 2nd Parliamentary Groups of the Young Slovenia Party, with a note, if the amendment under 1 is adopted, there is no need to vote on the amendment under 2. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. Four votes against 36. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 7 votes against 32. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 8 and 37 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article? No, thank you very much. I'm asking representatives of the government, have any of the amendments that have been adopted led to a conflict of law? No, thank you very much. We can move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much for your cooperation and have a nice weekend!
