ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Some of the colleagues apologized, namely colleagues Chebulj, Malovrej, Trofenik, after 1 p.m. will not be a colleague of Montenegro. We'll set the agenda for the 44th meeting first. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing or extending the agenda items, so I will put this agenda to the vote. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We're voting. 63 present, 51 for and 2 for. We're at 1. Agenda items - a re-decision on the Law of Inventory. At its 2nd extraordinary meeting on 23.4.2004, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-declare the law on income before declaring it. I give the word to the representative of the State Council if he so wishes. Yes, to explain the demands of the world, this is Councilman Anton Peršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, a nice greeting on behalf of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia! In this introduction, I will not repeat or read an explanation of the decision by which the Council of State requested the National Assembly to vote once again on the Income Act. To begin with, I would just like to mention some of the perhaps less visible findings among the reasons for the decision of the State Council. I would start by saying that the State Assembly was not so long ago, it was not so long ago, that it adopted a law on income, with which the State Council was also very seriously involved. You may be aware that, at two meetings, the Council of State has discussed the conclusions and views on this law, which we have then forwarded to the drafter of the law and the competent working bodies of the National Assembly. We have therefore paid very close attention to the bill, but the findings and proposals we have made with both the working bodies and the meetings of the State Council have been undetected or ignored. It is not an insult, but a finding that our consideration of the law was thorough, our views are well founded and strongly supported by analyses and data from civil society in the fields of culture, social work, agriculture, disability organisations and so on. In fact, the fact that the National Assembly has become indifferent to the positions of the State Council can also be seen as the fact that it is not too careful with civil society and local self-government, whose representation means the State Council. I would like to point out that the views of the State Council, as summarized in the explanation for the veto decision, are in fact the findings of those groups which the law, as it is, places in a worse position than their current situation. In other words, the State Council supports the stated starting points or government principles as a candidate, according to which the law should in principle have the effect of an act of social nature, at least in part, to increase general relief and also the principle of equal taxation of equal income. However, the fact is that, despite this trend for some groups, the situation is deteriorating or at least becoming more uncertain. This applies mainly to the part that speaks of agriculture. I think of actual creators in the field of culture, self-employed journalists, some groups of disabled people, children with special needs, especially children who have already grown to a certain age, farmers and so on. The National Assembly has not long since adopted a national programme for culture. In this national programme, two emphasis is particularly important in this respect. One concerns the city and the role of culture at the time of entry into the EU and the accession where the National Assembly has adopted some very good principles on this. Secondly, it has ensured in this national programme that the National Assembly will take care of more facilitations in the field of, say, purchases of works of art, literary works and so on, or also sponsorship and donations. Of course, this law is aimed at the opposite. It reduces relief and reduces conditions or conditions for donations, sponsorship and so on. It is said that within a few months, the National Assembly made two decisions that conflicted with each other. It is also about the so-called general relief, which was before 3% and which also included expenditure on the purchase of works of art, works of art, for tickets to cultural events has now been reduced to 2%, and the range of purposes for this delicacy has been reduced. And we all know, and I'm also adamant to calculate, but of course I don't have the same income as most citizens, that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] already voluntary health insurance and the purchase of several medicines has already covered 3% relief, up to 2%. "De facto" therefore facilitates the purchase of fine works, works of art and this is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u3	Mr. Secretary of State, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u4	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u5	Peace in the hall! Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State for the extra. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u6	Will it be possible to answer any questions?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u7	Maybe, just now is the time for further explanation. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Please, Mr. President Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy has held a debate on the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to re-decision on the law on income, and on the Government's broad opinion, which I will briefly present. In its opinion, the Government proposes or emphasises that the text of the law is the result of coordination with all the ministries and associations concerned and constitutes a set of basic objectives and principles, as explained in the proposal. The solutions in the draft Income Act in the areas where a re-decision requirement is proposed under the law in question are appropriate, taking into account the basic principles and objectives of the law and including a number of elements, in particular in the form of relief, exemption from payment of income and transitional solutions that specifically support those areas. The arguments against the veto for the various statements in the request are: the tax base on income, special relief, the exemption from disability benefits, the relationship with disabled organisations, the exemption of income from occasional or temporary benefits or aid to disabled persons, the indication that it is inappropriate or unprofessional to tax income from agricultural and forestry activities. And on this basis, it proposes to the National Assembly that, in re-decision, it adopts a law on income. The debate specifically raised the following issue: A critical consideration was given to how to justify the decision on the selected veto grounds by the State Council. In view of the fact that half of the composition of the National Council of Representatives of Local Interests has been presented in relation to the exposure of the 148th Article of the budget of the municipalities, the issue of the overlooked problem of sport has been raised. Given the many other areas that have been given special attention by the proposer of the legal proposal as a whole, according to the opinion expressed by the discussers, it shows an unconvincing or partial approach to justify the request or the solutions presented. On the basis of the debate and on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have already presented, on behalf of the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy, I propose to the Members and Members of the National Assembly to support the Law on Income in re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u9	Thank you very much. He wants the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble's word? That's right. And I'm giving it to him. Then the representatives of the groups will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that the Income Act, which you have adopted, is not particularly appropriate in terms of social, cultural and agricultural aspects. Allow me to briefly present the Government's views on the state council's views. In the preparation of the bill and the harmonisation of the law, three objectives were essential in addition to compliance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court and the directives of the European Union. First, the overall burden on the debtors, especially those in the lowest income classes to be fully decommissioned, up to the level of nominal income; thus the tax burden will be reduced by around 9.7% and 37 billion tolars. Secondly, the tax burden on labour income in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to provide jobs. The data available for 2002 show that currently in Slovenia the tax burden on the employee is higher than the average of the European Union, by 2 percentage points. The proposed Income Act will bring the tax burden to 1.9 per cent in Slovenia, bringing us closer to European Union level. Thirdly, a more equal treatment of taxpayers in the same economic situation and a more transparent tax treatment of incomes and thus a more even distribution of tax burdens between debtors. Due to the uneven distribution of tax burdens under the applicable law, the taxpayers are moving from tax-burdened forms to tax-reduced forms of income, since the difference between the available net income and the most taxed forms of income is up to 30 percentage points for the average annual wage. The re-decision requirement stems from the following areas of taxation: taxation of income obtained under copyright contracts, in particular in terms of the cultural situation of the creators; special reliefs for dependent family members; treatment of disabled persons and disabled organisations; and taxation of income from agricultural and economic activities. The Income Act has an embedded significant social component and provides for specific treatment of individual groups of people, regardless of the fact that such treatment can be disputed in terms of fairness of taxation and the negative effects on the labour market. Tax policy cannot replace social, housing and other policies. Dear Members and Members! Authorised fees represent a special phenomenon with regard to taxation in Slovenia, which is not detected in the tax systems of other countries, where there is a clear distinction between copyright incomes as property rights or passive incomes and incomes from the performance of the so-called copyright work and the active income of an individual. The law follows this logic. In determining the amount of the standard costs, account was taken of the fact that income from a relationship where a natural person carries the costs and risks himself or not. For self-employed people in culture and journalists, a solution was sought in a special personal relief. This relief retains approximately the same tax situation in relation to the current regime. The requirement for relief to be granted to employed artists is contrary to the principles of the law and implies the establishment of unjustified inequalities in relation to other employees. The requirement to increase the price from 3.9 million to 5 million tolars, taking into account the income situation of individuals in Slovenia and the position of other persons who carry out other activities on their own, is inappropriate. Almost 30% of all independent entrepreneurs achieved incomes of up to 3.9 million tolars according to 2002 figures. The social sector is also given considerable attention in the law. According to the current system, relief for dependent family members is significantly increased from 10 to 13.9% of the average wage, or 38%. The overall relief also increases significantly by 56.4%. Special attention shall be paid to housing problems, namely, the debtor will be able to apply an additional 2% of its tax base for paid interest on loans obtained to resolve the debtor's housing problem in the context of the relief for various purposes. The definition of dependent family members is broad and stems from the obligation to maintain by law to regulate marriage and family relations. Maintenance family members shall also be considered to be parents or adoptors of the debtor if they do not have their own means of subsistence or are less than or less than a special relief, if they live with the joint household or are in institutional protection and the debtor shall bear the costs of such services. Under the same conditions, family members may also be dependent on the parents or adoptors of the spouse if the spouse is not liable for income. Maintained family members are also considered to be children after 18 years of age, regardless of age, if they are unable to work. Disability allowances granted to such persons and allowances for care are non-taxable. With regard to the position that the Act on Income from Disability Organisations establishes a discriminatory relationship, I must stress that disability organisations are treated in the same way as other organisations engaged in humanitarian activities. Where decisions in the Income Act are linked to the purpose or activity, it is not possible to talk about disability or disability activities because the activity of disabled organisations is in itself a humanitarian activity and they are included in the framework of humanitarian and humanitarian activities. The law also solves the problem of large indemnities for disabled workers who receive salaries and compensation from compulsory disability insurance from two payers, employer and pension and disability insurance institutions. The calculations show that, following that solution, the net annual income of the debtors will be even slightly higher than under the applicable law. However, the request for exemption from those compensations for disabled workers is not justified. For it is the income which is the nature of the income from work. All other benefits or other similar benefits arising from past employment or occupational insurance are subject to taxation, such as old-age pensions, invalidity pensions, unemployment benefits. The same is true of the requirement to exempt income from benefits for occasional or temporary care or of assistance to disabled persons paid by disabled persons - is not acceptable in terms of equality of taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also mention the area of agriculture which the Council of State has also identified as problematic. With regard to the observation that farmers should not be given the opportunity to be informed in time of their tax liability in a given year, I must point out that the tax scale applicable to all debtors provides only a framework and that, in order to determine the tax liability, it is necessary to know the tax base. As a rule, the tax base for activities shall be determined by keeping the accounts. For basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, the Income Act provides that the tax base is to be determined on the basis of the cadastral income and other payments related to this activity, in which payments under the agricultural policy measures are, of course, dominated. Catastrophe income as a flat-rate part of the tax base shall be checked annually in accordance with the cadastral income law and shall also be adapted annually to the situation, either by new calculation or by valorisation. In order to determine the tax base under the Income Act, the present law takes into account the data on cadastral income on 31 December of the year preceding the year of the dose. Under the new law, it will be taken into account on 30 June of the year of the dose. The first two instalments in the year of the dose will be calculated according to the tax base of the previous year. A new dose will be made on 30 June, when a new base is known, and a new deposit will be calculated and a calculation will be made with the first two meals. Thus, the system remains unchanged as the cadastral income is checked once a year, only that the date of the new Income Act has been suspended in the middle of the tax year, allowing a more direct assessment of income in agriculture and forestry for each year. The argument that payments under the measures of the agricultural policy, so-called subsidies, should not be specifically included in the tax base since they are already included in the cadastral income for a variety of reasons, given that the basis for calculating the cadastral income is market income and, of course, based on market prices and these subsidies are additional. Dear Members and Members, because of all the above-mentioned facts, I propose to the National Assembly that the law on income be reinstated because there are no veto arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's. Mr Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, your coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia - DeSUS, we are still aware of the proposal made by the State Council to discuss the income tax again. This question is of interest to all citizens, not only the youngest, those who enter into a labour relationship and are, so to speak, taxpayers, pay taxes, contributions and income, but also to the older generation who can still appreciate what a certain burden means, even for those who have low incomes and do not know how to tie the beginning to the end of the month to survive. Any change in tax policy or legislation brings something to someone and brings something to others or affects them. Citizens expect the country to care for infrastructure, everything they face daily and everything that affects them daily. They are also affected by what the state has to pay. Lobbyists in the national world were very thorough and excluded or focused on three sectors. I will not repeat what has already been said by the Chairman of the Home Committee and the Honourable Minister of Finance, but I will come from what the citizens have told us, who have chosen us, who have trusted us to represent them in order to regulate the relationship between income and expenditure in the light of tax and similar burdens. How upset citizens are in their own way when journalists reveal such and other incomes, I will say, layers when they wonder if it's all right, if it's all moral, if it's all ethical. On the other hand, they wonder if - and this, I think, this Income Law to some extent at least solves that those incomes that have been taxed so far have been taxed in one way or another and that the tax burdens would be more equally shared and that those who receive more would contribute more to the common well-being and could then be burdened, I repeat, by those layers that are less socially disadvantaged. Pensioners and pensioners, too, believe that it would be right to have certain incomes, which are more or less all derived from work, from certain creations, whether it is artistic work or any other copyright work, because we know that these certain fees, which are avoided by certain contributions and taxes, mean much more, or even more, if they were included in that part of the contributions to health, pension, disability and social insurance. In the parliamentary group, we believe it is right to confirm or not accept the veto, but to confirm the law as it was put forward, as we voted, because we had many opportunities and many amendments at that time to decide to improve it from the basic proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bajuk will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u15	You have 18 minutes if you want. The entire delegation has 18 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group voted against this law and we will vote against this law today. This is supposed to be the second pillar of the so-called government tax reform, which will in fact not change in its essence the most eccentric feature of our tax system. And that is, not only its absolute height, but mainly the distribution of the burden. Of course, we are all aware that the tax burden, the burden in Slovenia is too high, but because there is too much consumption. So the solution to this problem is essentially a long-term solution and only by saving economic behaviour with funds entrusted to the Slovenian government can this be changed. However, burden-sharing is a matter that could be resolved and resolved. From the very beginning, the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Coalition have fully pointed out the indisputable fact, and this is that we always find Slovenia among the highest cities on the scale, as regards the taxation of labour income. And among the lowest when capital incomes are taxed. And that's what we were saying on the basis of the data that was then available to us until 2002. However, as I have already pointed out in the public debate in the National Assembly, we do have an even newer international comparison concerning labour taxation. We are no longer among the highest on this scale, but in the first place on this scale. Forbes magazine has been preparing an index in English called "Tax Misery Index" for years. And this is an index that shows how much of all costs, as far as work is concerned, are actually obtained by the State through such and different systems and contributions, how much of this net is obtained by the worker. And, look, Slovenia comes first, the net is only 38.2%, so the country gets 61.8% through all its mechanisms. Let me also explain how interesting it is to see how it is in other countries with which we like to compare. For example, Ireland has 38.7% of this burden alone, Sweden, which you, colleagues and colleagues of the great coalition like to talk about and has 53.9%. And regardless of such and other changes, which will not, in their essence, fix this, is the fact that Slovenia will still be found among the most heavily burdened countries, as regards labour taxation, and of course among the least burdened countries, as regards taxation of capital revenues. And this is not just an assessment of the opposition, as they would immediately mark, of course, the voice of the opposition, once again criticise. This is what Dr. Lahovnik said in this national assembly in the debate on his candidacy, the current Minister of Economy Dr. Lahovnik - you can go to look at the magnetogram - which said that there would be an effective burden on the taxation of the profits of legal persons, somewhere around 17%, it is said that it would increase from 12.7 or 13 as it has so far increased - this is his assessment, I do not know where this information is from, because the government has not formally told us. So, what we already know is not going to be a major change. That is why we believe in New Slovenia that this is not a tax reform. For that tax reform that will really change this characteristic of the Slovenian tax system, it will be necessary to make every effort not only to put it on the agenda but also to vote. Of course, this national assembly in its current composition will not do so; it will be up to citizens and citizens to whom they will trust that the burden of the tax system will actually be distributed in a different way and that we will no longer find Slovenia in the first places, as regards labour taxation, but at least somewhere in the middle. Of course, why is this happening? Simply Article 87, which is the old story of Article 87, how the government decided to tax the profits of capital. And remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, what the first proposal was. The first proposal of the Slovenian Government was to actually just tax those who have the largest share of capital, which is supposed to be more than 10% in a particular company. Unacceptable for two reasons: because this was set as a percentage, irrespective of the level of capital, and on the other hand, because 10% would ensure that those who earned the most during this transition period would not pay anything. And because the opposition demanded this and because the opposition made a public statement on this, they changed the proposal and placed it at 1%. And also 1% was not accepted and was not acceptable to anyone who has at least some sense of justice and also some professional basis and therefore they have changed, and now we have 87th article, which is again made of vines. Why not pay the profit tax to those who have under 60 million in the company up to 200 million capital, there is no explanation. This is once again a flat-rate approach, a political decision with no professional interpretation, with very concrete consequences. Until the Slovenian state renews its approach, we will not be able to tackle the obvious problems that this country must address until it is able to restore its approach to how we will tax one and the other things, such as labour income and capital revenues. We have given the case, and once again, in Slovenia, one of the biggest problems of young people is access to their apartment. However, fiscal policy cannot do so, as it has done elsewhere in the world, to recognise as a whole the relief of mortgage interest, as a relief to income on the basis of the value that own home is a positive thing for society as a whole. We can't do this. Why? Because you are sticking to this approach, so that you will continue to tax, as you have done so far, only work and defend your people who have yet to come in an illegal way or at least in an imprudent way to the large shares of former social property. On the other hand, there is another problem that we cannot vote for in this law - because it is not a tax reform, it is just cosmetic corrections. The cosmetic correction is that we are still following the same approach as for tax reliefs. Of course, the list of options is long, even the page is a long list of what the taxpayer can deduct as a relief. But when the moment of truth comes, there's an article 2 that says yes, but that can only be 2%, 2% of the base. So, we sign one thing with our right hand, and we delete it with our left hand at the same time, because 2% of the relief is nothing. And this is a conscious abolition of fiscal policy that can and should influence as an expression of the entire policy of the Slovenian government to solve common problems. We are pleased that the government has finally overlooked and abandoned the proposal to actually eliminate those reliefs concerning families with more children, at least that it will not get worse, at least that. Otherwise, we have advocated better solutions in New Slovenia, but this consensus is at least one small matter in this law, with which we are satisfied. However, since this is not a tax reform, this is not the tax reform that Slovenia needs, we will vote against in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. My colleague, Janez Podobnik, will present the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with colleagues! Allow me to briefly give the Group's position on the proposal of the Council of State to rule again on the important law, the law on income. Some concrete views will then be presented to fellow Members of Parliament. I must admit that the Slovenian People's Party's Group has found itself at this point in the agenda in a very responsible situation and, in a political sense, in a very sensitive situation. As I have said many times, when we and financial experts and former coalition colleagues prepared this law months ago, we have worked very actively with our expert group and have contributed a wide range of solutions to this law. That is why we are voting three weeks ago or a little less when the law was voted in full, and I think that most of our fellow Members - we were already in opposition - we supported this law. Also because we have assessed the need for Slovenia to have a modern European law, a law on income, not least to adapt to the requirements of European Union legislation, and that this law will be fair, neutral and that the tax base will be broad and such as to make it easier for those with low incomes to survive. That is why we have also carefully examined the State Council's argument. Our key question is, and this is the dilemma that we are now facing, whether this key phrase is 'in addition to regulating social and family policy'. And here we must publicly acknowledge that this law brings good solutions in the field of social and family life. Does it also promote culture, scientific creation and sponsorship and donorism? The Council of State estimates that the adoption of the Act makes these activities more difficult. Then we went to look at the argument, very concretely, and then we saw the responses of government representatives. Some of the State Council's arguments, colleagues and colleagues, however, hold. They hold, but the question arises whether, because of some arguments that they are, it is simply to break the whole income law, which has been established for at least a year and will come into force with 1.1. next year, or not to simply decide another way, that we may hear, before the law comes into force, that there are also some other irregularities in the law written, inaccuracies that the State Council has not yet registered and written as a veto argument, and that it may, however, be corrected if necessary, because of some, also as the State Council has written, this is right, inconsistent terminology. Inconsistent terminology will, in our view, also lead to difficulties in implementing the law. Indeed, it is inconsistent terminology compared to some other laws. If I mention the law on parental protection and family benefits or the law on pension and disability insurance. Therefore, until the law is in force, it should simply be assessed whether these areas should be complemented by some minimum addition to the law. The question remains open in our parliamentary group: macroeconomicists in the field of government policy with arguments, numbers show that the economic situation of the Slovenian farmer is deteriorating from year to year. It is getting worse from year to year, despite the introduction of direct payments. This was written by the most respected Slovenian agricultural macro-economists, including those who have also negotiated Slovenia's entry into the EU in recent years. And my colleagues will present this view. We are aware that the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act will resolve some issues and resolve them for the better, but the key question remains whether it is in the interests of fairness that you should support a law that you know in advance that you will put a particular social group in a worse position. Here, too, the State Council’s argument on those who are active in the field of culture applies. So, as I have already announced, in our view, there is no compelling argument that the State Council, with its arguments against the law, would persuade us to vote against it today and thereby reject the system law, but we will continue to look at some solutions that are not fully maximal and try to make their improvements possible by amending the law. However, views on some other areas will be presented by fellow Members in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u19	Comrade Pucko, Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law in re-decision. Although the figures or figures below have already been mentioned many times, we feel that they need to be repeated again. The bill introduces an additional burden on the Slovenian society of taxpayers, amounting to about 37 billion tolls or a weak 10% of the income collected. People with the lowest income are most burdened. According to the law, each such taxpayer will pay about 27,000 tolls of income less at the annual level. At the same time, percentages, of course for lower percentages, will reduce tax burdens in all classes to an average of two average wages, where this burden will decrease by about 3.2%. The average effective tax rate, expressed in terms of the income-tax ratio, is estimated to fall from 11.6% to 10.5%, most in the first tax grade. In our view, most comments from different stakeholders have been taken into account in the drafting of this law. In particular, I would like to highlight the area of agriculture and the requirements of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Farmers' Union of Slovenia. At their request, the tax exemption included in its entirety the benefits of neighbouring aid between agricultural holdings in the context of machinery rings and direct payments under the measures of the agricultural policy for environmental programmes. This is a matter of introducing environmentally friendly technologies and adapting to organic production standards, which are paid on the basis of an estimated value of income loss or higher costs due to such technologies. At their request, the gradual integration of direct payments from two to three years or only fully in 2008 shall be extended. It also complied with their requirements for accounting management and voluntary decision-making of farmers to determine the tax base on the basis of the difference between income and expenditure. All income can be divided into all members of the farm economy. And all these things that were raised in the debate until the adoption of the law are contained in the law that we will be deciding again. In particular, I would like to point out below the overall relief which increases and is prepared or is determined on the basis of the Social Protection Act. It is increasing by 56.4 percent compared to now in force. Reliefs for various purposes related to the actual investment of a natural person for individual purposes are as follows: for voluntary supplementary pension insurance, for voluntary additional health insurance, for voluntary contributions for various purposes, for investments intended to solve the individual’s housing problem and for maintenance of an apartment or apartment house, for the purchase of works of art, beauty books, audio-video content carriers, for the renewal of cultural monuments, for tuition and for the purchase of textbooks and professional literature relating to education under publicly recognised educational programmes and for connection to the Internet and for the purchase of terminal equipment. This is also true of dependent children. For members of political parties and trade unions, for paid amounts of self-contribution, for investments in securities to which the Republic of Slovenia is a issuer and whose repayment period is longer than 12 months. These benefits are maximised by two percent of the annual taxable base plus two percent of the taxable persons have the possibility of an additional two percent relief related to the enforcement or management of the housing issues of each taxpayer and are linked to interest on the loans paid by such taxable person. It is also important not to include benefits in the tax base received by natural persons for voluntary participation in amateur, humanitarian, charitable, educational, health, cultural, sports, research, trade and chamber activities, amounting to 200,000 tolls per year. This limit does not include the reimbursement of the costs of which no income is paid. The next thing I want to say is a special relief for those who support children. This is a huge contribution to maintaining or improving the income position of our families, in the sense that, compared to the current system of incomes allocated to these facilitations, there has been an increase of 44 billion tolars; now there have been 37 billion tolars. First, the height for the first child increases from the current 10% to 13.8%, or 38%, of the average wage. It increases with the number of children, as in the current system, by 5% of the average wage or by 172,000 tolars for each child. Taking into account that, at the same time as I mentioned earlier, there is also an increase in general relief, it can be found that in a family where both parents are employed and receive an average wage income, higher tax benefits also increase their income position by 2%. In the end, I'd like to say the following. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this law in re-decision. We will support it because it systematically distributes about 37 billion Slovenian tolars among taxpayers and taxpayers, a poor tenth of the annual income collected. In the tax base of taxpayers, it includes all types of taxpayers' income in a fairer way and also relieves labour costs on the other hand, thus improving the competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy in a tough fight on the European Union market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The text is given by my colleague Leopold Grošelj to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u22	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and co-workers of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Let me begin by saying that, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will once again support the Income Act, although it is clear that we are never fully satisfied with the taxes. We have been in the party, and we are still convinced that only the consideration of the comprehensive tax package could be a whole condition for prudent and professional and politically acceptable solutions, but we will obviously not be able to adopt the whole package of tax legislation in this mandate. Nevertheless, it seems important to us that we have adopted a law on income, which also follows the agreements of the social partners. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have followed in tax reform some of the objectives that, according to our assessment, have been satisfactorily resolved in the law we adopted in this assembly at the end of April, that is to say before 1 May. These objectives are: First, redistribution of tax burdens, as this requires a substantially modified income structure of the population in recent years while reducing the possibility of avoiding individual income tax and ratings. Taxation of income from property is clearer, taxation of passive income is higher, the principle of taxation of residents by world income and non-residents by source of income in Slovenia and the like has been established. Secondly, the burden on the income of the weaker strata of the population by raising general relief, which will relieve the lowest income classes and should gradually achieve the level of annual minimum wage. Thirdly, an increase in the competitive capacity of the economy as a result of a change in the tax burden on work and increased tax incentives for investment in knowledge, research and development. Fourthly, maintain the fiscal potential of local communities. Despite the reduction of income from income in the budgets of these communities, which will need to be upgraded by the introduction of the possibility of higher original revenues, also linked to the activities of local communities to increase employment, to the economic growth of business operators in their area, to eliminate the increased burden of infrastructure due to daily migration, to increase investment in technology and to restructure the economy, and so on, as there is no and cannot be a normal situation when self-financing is under 30 municipalities in Slovenia. Introduce greater transparency of tax policy and simplify procedures while reducing discretionary tax administration rights in the interpretation of legislation when dealing with different taxpayers. Six, special treatment of creativity, such as in the Income Act, special personal allowances for culturers, status of up to 3.9 million and additional opportunities for dedicated cultural donations. The Income Act is certainly one of those that attracts the greatest attention to the public and a number of public debates. In the United Social Democrats Group, in principle, we thought that solutions were acceptable, such as raising general relief, which would relieve the minimum income classes and should gradually achieve the level of annual minimum wage agreed upon by the social partners upon the signing of the Social Agreement for the period 2003 to 2005. Syntheticity of taxation and enforcement of the principle of taxation of residents by world income and residents by source of income in Slovenia. Change in the income scale, which places a greater burden on taxpayers, and solutions that will help to reduce the tax avoidance of individual incomes and the credit ratings that we are witnessing to them today. In agreement with most of the proposed starting points of the law, however, we have drawn attention to some concrete solutions that the government has taken into account to the utmost extent in relation to the whole concept of the Income Act. Today, we are again deciding on some of the areas of the Income Act concerning the non-conclusion of the state council in these areas. Which one is it? This is the taxation of income achieved in the field of copyright contracts, mainly from the point of view of the cultural position of the creator. These are specific reliefs for dependent family members, the treatment of disabled persons and disabled organisations and the taxation of income from agricultural and forestry activities. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to comment on only some of these areas and to particularly highlight the views of our Group. As regards the tax base on the income achieved under the copyright contract, these are copyright fees and tax relief for cultural workers, we consider that the position in the existing law is properly established. For this reason, we also agree with the proposed solution in the law, and we are convinced that the existing solution is being remedied in the current practice, which is due to the fact that copyright revenues are treated more favourably than the work income or services provided, whereby every income paid under the copyright contract is treated in full as income from copyright rights. As a result of the pursuit of the objective of equal and transparent tax treatment of income and a more equitable distribution of tax burdens between taxpayers, the nature of income is therefore also determined on the basis of the content [[or from the activities of the debtor or property]] and on the basis of whether income is obtained on the basis of an independent or independent relationship. We would, of course, also like to say something about special reliefs intended for those who support family members. However, I think that this should only take into account the fact that the definition of a dependent family member as a taxable person in the Income Act derives from the maintenance obligation resulting from the law governing marriage and family relations. Therefore, it also seems to us that the provisions governing special allowances for dependent family members are set out separately and must be understood as follows: for dependent children and especially for other dependent family members. The definition of a child is based on definitions that are also applicable in other areas. It's parental protection, family benefits, etc. Under this legislation, children of 18 years of age who are not educated, who are unable to work, are treated as adults under another legislation and are also defined differently. Under the Income Act, a person who has family protection status under the Family Protection Act will be treated mentally and physically as other dependent family members. While parents will not be entitled to relief for a child in need of special care and assistance, such a person has the right to compensation for disability, care allowance and certain forms of social protection. Those invalids' incomes are untaxed under the law, and the disability allowance also does not reduce the allowance for dependent family members, as is the case under the current law. As regards the reduction of the tax base for different purposes from 3 per cent to 2 per cent of the tax base. According to the Income Law, relief for various purposes is actually reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent of the taxpayer's tax base, but it should also be pointed out here that, with a significant increase in general relief from the current 11 per cent of the average wage to 17.2 average wages in Slovenia. Well, it also seems very appropriate for us that, in the context of the general relief for various purposes, there is also a solution whereby the debtor can apply in addition to these additional 2% tax base levels for paid interest on loans and, last but not least, a very important area, of which today was also a speech, to solve the debtor's housing problem. Perhaps just a few more words about the assessments given regarding the discriminatory attitude towards disabled organisations. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that Article 27, which provides for the exemption of income benefits received by social or otherwise threatened persons from organisations, is in accordance with the law governing humanitarian organisations, or the law governing disability organisations, the humanitarian status or the disability organisation acting in the public interest. However, in this case the exemption is linked to the status of the disability or humanitarian organisation. However, for the exemptions referred to in Articles 52, 100 and 112, the solutions are not linked to the status of a disability or humanitarian organisation but to the purpose or activity. That is why we also believe that it is not possible to talk about disability or disability activities because the activity of disabled organisations is in itself a humanitarian activity and is included in the framework of humanitarian and other activities. In view of the time I am running out, I must say - since the Chairman of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee has also very well assessed the views on disability and also on tax compensation, he has also talked very systematically about income for agricultural and forestry activities, and I do not need to state this further, but I can only say that we also agree with the government's views and views. So allow me, honourable Members and Members of Parliament [[End warning sign]] - just a second or ten, although I am from a coalition party - that we can find together that we will never be fully satisfied with the law in fact, but in the parliamentary group we believe that the law is a suitable compromise between the country's interests after tax revenues and the interests of individual social groups after the minimum tax burden. That is why we will also support the Income Act after the voted veto of the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče has the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u24	Your Honors are here! When I listened to the presentations of the positions before me and the presentation of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I came to understand how the government intends to make our society smarter and more educated. The government's project, when fiscal instruments are used, looks something like this: give financial burdens, tax burdens to citizens and citizens, leaving them with fewer financial resources, making them able to read more at home and become more educated. This is a measure by the Slovenian government and government parties that support such a tax change as defined in the law before us today. Of course, we never agreed with this type of work in the National Party, so we will not agree with it today. The marriage is bad, the hand of the heart, I stress once again, the marriage is very bad. It does not follow the constitutional categories of the social state and does not follow the category of the fair country. According to our assessment, if the law is adopted in spite of the negative opinion of the State Council and despite the negative opinion of many social partners in the process of creating and adopting legislation, it will, in particular, show an increased difference between tax and non-tax revenues. According to our assessment, the difference between tax and tax revenues is, of course, a major error or the biggest mistake of public finances. We need to know that tax revenues in our country, on the basis of the wishes of the Liberal Democracy and the United Nations, consist of tax revenues of over 90% and non-tax expenditure of less than 10%. With the amendment of this law, you will increase this relationship further, so that the tax revenues will be strong above 90%. But the fact is that you know this relationship, if not from this, because it is in the National Party that we have always pointed out this unsustainable public financial situation, which, of course, you are also promoting through these fiscal measures that are defined in the law today before us. We are confident that the new law will only increase the number of categories that will therefore be much more subject to tax burdens. The following legislative text shows that the impact of the novel is also negative in the field of local self-government. And as a paradox, or as a mockery of previous constitutional changes, when this National Assembly adopted constitutional changes in the area of local self-government and said how urgently it was necessary for the State to decentralize itself, how urgently it was necessary for both the Government and Parliament to do everything in order to have a greater impact on local communities, then, of course, you are proposing an act or law that would put the local community in a worse position than it had been before the adoption of this act. Of course, agriculture must also be touched in the context of the content of the law. According to an assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, after your tax burden, they will, in particular, demonstrate in the form that they will be rewarded or that they will encourage such laws of the owners of agricultural land not to work the land. If this is the purpose of the Slovenian government - right; but this is not the purpose of the Slovenian National Party and this is just another reason why we cannot support such a law. I would also like to touch on behalf of the National Party's Group on questions or chapters of copyright. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the National Party, it is totally unacceptable that the equation of all in the cover of copyright contracts is unacceptable. So the equation of the author's fee for those to whom it is the only source of survival, with those who have, in addition to permanent work, income from the title of copyright fees, is unacceptable. Let me just stop at this point for a few moments. So, first category, people who live exclusively from an author's fee. To make it easier to understand, it's usually free professions, journalists and the like. And, of course, we need to know that these people themselves are paying social, health insurance, food costs, transport costs, lack of regression, in short, they are not entitled to the regression, the issue of the hospital's exit, they will be compared to all those who have the copyright fee in addition to regular employment, according to a new government proposal. Which means, on the other hand, if we look from the practice or from the system of functioning of the Slovenian government, we come pretty quickly to the realization that we will compare them with government officials who are doing different works in the field of copyright. A few days ago, the Journal of Finance stated that state officials who care for the social state and so on, as they declare themselves and come in line with the United List or the Liberal Democracy, have an author's fee per year of 18 million Slovenian tolars. And now we are going to compare this category of people, that is, who receive up to 18 million Slovenian tolars annually, plus, of course, the salary, with all those in the field of tax relief, who live exclusively from the author's fee and who are subject to such payment of transportation costs, nutrition, loss of regress and all that I said at the beginning. It's unacceptable, according to our assessment. It is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to such a narrow view of tax policy and, under the pretext of social policy, equates citizens regardless of their sources of income, because that is exactly what the government is doing right now. A further question or dilemma raised within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group on a limited proposal for a law before us is also disagreement with the Government's proposal for a policy of disabled persons and the related policies of disabled companies. As in the area of local communities, as we have just learned before, that a number of Slovenian municipalities will be subject to income losses precisely because of this law, and then, although we have accepted constitutional changes generously about 30 days ago, the same is true in the field of disabled persons and disabled companies. 30 days ago, in this area, all of us talked about how people with disabilities, i.e. their families, businesses, should adapt to society, how they should establish an equal position. But it doesn't take 30 days, and from the fiscal policy of these people and their businesses, we hit our pockets. Or is this the point of constitutional change, where at some declaration level we are talking about how it should be, how great it is, when we have an implementing act of the constitution - because in the final stage, only the implementing act of the constitution is ahead of us - but of course government policy is pursuing a completely different objective. The objective is to increase tax revenues within our country. I will not embark on intermediate objectives which the government claims are final objectives, because that is not true. Well, let me slowly get to the conclusion of the time limit. It is also reasonable to say that the government, the Slovenian Government, has always promised for the last six years to try to reduce the ratio of taxation of labour burdened with workers, in relation to the taxation of capital. We have heard from one of the speakers that Slovenia is first of all. Of course, unfortunately, in the first place in this area, when we talk about labour taxation, we are the highest, and when we are on capital taxation, we are the lowest, which is, of course, completely at odds with our constitutional provisions on social state and similar things. But the law, which is ahead of us despite six years of talking about reducing this relationship, about joining in, i.e. the highest rate of labour taxation and the lowest rate of capital taxation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to do so under this law. Whoever claims otherwise, some of you have already claimed, of course you know for yourselves that it does not. And let us, at the end of the day, as one of the most important reasons why we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is by any means playing or making fun of those citizens who still believe, either politics or concretely, who still believe in the Slovenian government. It's just a general relief. We've heard, we've read, and we know that with this law, it's 2 percent. If that's why you're going to adopt this law and predict that you will, then you're totally in line with my words about our country's fiscal policy, so you're going to put a financial burden on people. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] It'll be better. [[...]] I personally and in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group do not believe that the fear of the National Party is justified, but they show public finances. The law is not worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u25	My word, Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Income Act, but not so much for the reasons and reasons for which the Council of State has been vetoed on this law, but mainly for wider and more important reasons, for our reasons. Slovenia, as well as other European countries, is facing a decline in gross domestic product growth and, of course, it raises a great deal of questions about how to turn this growth or turn it into growth and, of course, allow this basic constitutional principle that Slovenia is a social state and thus cover all the fixed costs of budgets arising from legal obligations, as well as all the development plans of our country. Of course, this is not possible without encouragement or without a favourable environment for the development of the economy. And it was in this first pillar or the first phase of the tax reform it had set out - under the terms of "tax reform" - that the government had drawn, that we wanted to see whether the government would actually pursue the objectives of introducing a rather encouraging environment for the development of the economy and, on the other hand, mitigating the early Slovenian country's cancer, that is, despite the relatively high labour costs we have very poor net wages. And of course, in the case of the Income Act, we mainly expected that the state would intervene significantly more - not only with this law, but also with other laws, because, of course, the government itself has called for reform - to intervene directly in the taxation of work, thereby reducing the cost of work at, in my opinion, even the need to raise net wages. As my colleague Bajuk from New Slovenia has pointed out, in Slovenia, the tax burden is the highest in the Member States, I speak for 2003, and, of course, also the forecast that we will reduce it by 1.9%, we are still at the very top of the taxation, which I think is completely wrong. And we cannot say that neither tax reform nor the implementation of one of the key objectives of this first phase, which has been forever sung by the government, is that we will tax capital and burden work. We have not done either, of course, we have announced that we will do so, but this project has ended in the same way as many other government projects. This is that on the one hand a great deal of prediction was made, but in the end it was a meagre spoil. I am also very surprised at some of the data that I have heard here from colleagues from other parliamentary groups today, that the collection of this tax reform is a savings of 37 billion, but I know that we have announced before the beginning of the adoption of the law, or that these are words from the government, that it will be 35 billion, and we have in fact maintained some of the benefits in the Income Law itself, especially here I am talking about families with more children, which I think is right, so of course we have reduced the proceeds of this tax reform. And now we see numbers in front of us that we've actually raised it. This is said, I think it is a lot of different data with different interpretations and, of course, also different views on the effects of this reform. As far as the copyright agreements are concerned - once again; in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that it is not essential and it is not crucial how these works are presented in a tax way that is less favourable, but mainly the problem of controls. Because most of the work done under the title of works of art is not at all, but it is some substitutes, regular employment or some regular or other contractual work, and that is a key problem. And instead of fighting here, the country has on the average taxed copyright work and, of course, those who are actually doing it, but who are in the minority. This is said to be the result of the abuse of culture and other professions, where copyright is the main work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess such an approach to resolving tax reform for the bad when we start in stages and already in the first phase there is widespread looting. Tax reform should have concrete objectives, concrete ways to ensure these objectives and, of course, also clear consequences. Before the discussion began, the Minister did not say how much per cent we are going to spend on our work at the expense of tax burdens, how much we are going to tax the capital after the new, because the issue has finally deteriorated and we now have some data that deviates from the government's and the ministry's stated wishes. Of course, we will not support this law for these and even the reasons already stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'm still giving the word "magic." Marku Diacija for the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, The new Income Act, in fact the amendment of all tax legislation, was one of the most important pre-election promises of the current government. That is why we expected the government to take the tax package seriously immediately after taking over the mandate and to put it into the legislative process over the past years with a complete analysis of the effects and consequences both on public finances and on taxpayers. This would be called tax reform. This law, which we are renegotiating today, came to the National Assembly in March, just a few months before the elections, two months before the entry into the European Union, and certain laws from this package are expected. What will be the impact of amending the whole legislation in this area, we can only guess for now, the results will be visible in the near future. Therefore, the veto of the State Council was not unexpected, but we believe that the Constitutional Court will also have a role in relation to others in the future, as certain articles are ambiguous. The international comparison of our tax system shows the fact that Slovenia is at the lowest place in all developed countries as regards capital taxation, while it is among the highest when talking about labour taxation. This is the characteristic of our tax system, which will not change significantly with the enforcement of this law. It's about certain cosmetic repairs, and some of them, hand to heart, are also considerate. I'm only going to touch some details, because the adverbs have already said enough. The adoption of this law is intended to bring individuals' income tax issues closer to comparable international standards in Slovenia. Among the reasons for the adoption of the law, the government has also written that the new law introduces greater fairness in the tax burden between the debtors and the burden of active income and the increased burden of passive income. However, a more precise review of the law shows that there is little change in this regard in the bill. The income scale seems to be more favourable and, in connection with the overall relief, it looks really nice. However, if we look at the gap between the second and third classes, in relation to the extension of tax bases and the reduction of reliefs for various purposes, we can see that for most taxpayers there will be no drastic positive change, this will be largely negative; some gain persons with least income and those with the highest income. For the younger citizens of the country, who are either at the beginning of the study path or who want a separate life path, this law is unstimulating, even though we have proposed several amendments to correct this fact - they have been rejected. Changes in the existing system are obvious for students. The threshold to which reliefs will be recognised is placed on a certain amount of income, and it does not matter where the income was paid or paid; there is no longer a limit to student services. If the revenues exceed that amount, the relief will not be recognised at all, which is unacceptable in our view. The age limit is set, in addition to the status of the student to whom it will be recognised, which is in clear contrast with the efforts to achieve education in all ages. The amount of relief is if we try to convert it to today's values, reduced to about half. This part of the law, in our view, is not the most prudent and logically regulated. We have heard that the government does not support the established family policy through tax and other reliefs, but through social transfers and subsidies. In the event that both parents are employed and receive relatively large incomes, thus they are not entitled to a child allowance or any subsidy, they pay almost the full price in kindergarten and are often in a worse position than families with a slightly poor financial income. In addition, young people need to take care of their pension security and start saving for a safe age, solving the housing problem. Thus, the biggest financial burden is on the shoulders of young people in employment. The country should not solve the problem of young families by increasing subsidies, but by burdening young people at the beginning of their working life. Differences to the detriment of taxpayers compared to the existing system are seen in special, today 3% of the benefits that will be only 2% new. The circle of tax-relevant relief is inappropriately narrower. The government proposes, in the wake of the introduction of the tax reform date, deleting the provisions that have so far allowed the application of incentives to purchase products that reduce the use of drinking water, electricity and other factors that contribute to a cleaner and more environmentally friendly environment. We strongly oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party. Special attention should be paid to the housing sector. The government itself in its opinion on re-decision on the Income Law finds, quote: "In the process of coordination and adoption of the law, it has proved that the housing problem in the Republic of Slovenia is particularly pressing and needs to be given special attention in the framework of the Income Act..." - and so on. This problem, however, has been gently touched by the government with 2% additional relief, which will not solve the problems. In view of the fact that investment in the purchase of an apartment, the construction of an apartment house, maintenance of an apartment or apartment house, the restoration of architectural and communication barriers in these facilities at the level of funds is not comparable to any other investment made by an income debtor, which is considered to be an income relief, it would make sense to increase the base to a minimum of 10% or multi-annual relief. At the same time, this would increase targeted savings to solve the housing problem and stimulate citizens to behave rationally and limit the grey economy and black work. Public financial revenues would also be conscious [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The cancellation of a certain part of the income tax has expired on the following deadline, but it is not that this area, if we have already decided on a concept of relief for various purposes, is to be ignored. Here, in our view, we had the opportunity and opportunity to move the paradigm, to help young people, to stimulate taxpayers, to limit the grey economy and more, not to reduce, cariculate, to aspirin levels. With such a flawed law, the missed opportunities for comprehensive fiscal policy solutions will still give us a headache. Therefore, we will not support this law again in the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u29	The position of the Young Slovenia Party concludes the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Before continuing the debate of Members and Members, I inform you that around 13 a.m., depending on the end of the discussion of an individual, a 30-minute break, which will take up to 13.30, or we will specify exactly the time of recess. And the break will also be at 6 p.m., which will take 15 minutes. I now give the floor to Members of Parliament and Members for discussion. Aloys Sok gets his word as the first discusser, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! Those who convince the public how you have taken into account all the proposals made in relation to agricultural taxation by the Agricultural Chamber and the Trade Union regarding non-taxation of mutual assistance and the gradual introduction of taxation over the next three years, of course you do not want to acknowledge and say that you have not taken into account the advice and comments of the most professional in this country, namely the agricultural economists who are studying this and who are already warning you that such a way of taxation will have catastrophic consequences for Slovenian agriculture. And this isn't about the worse situation of a particular social group, I don't know, farmers, which are just a few percent, 3, 4, although of course it's not irrelevant either. This is a much broader issue: the issue of the preservation of Slovenian cultural landscape is the issue of the settlement of Slovenian space. And if foreigners today observe how beautiful Slovenia is, of course, it is beautiful because we have maintained agriculture as a complementary activity to this point and because farmers, as the cheapest labor force, have maintained this cultural landscape. In the future, when you introduce such a way of taxation, I will tell you that many of these small farmers will stop farming because this simply because of the way they are taxed will no longer be paid. You didn't want to listen to this law to introduce an Austrian model of taxation. Austrians know a flat-rate model for small farms, semi-farmers and a different way of taxation for large farmers, who can then actually manage simple accounting. To write that our farmers who have lived 50, 55 years in a completely different situation will now suddenly start running a simple bookkeeping - I don't know - is unreasonable because it has to be introduced, you can't just say here, and now we're going to start with that. If you introduce simple accounting to someone, then you know what this means, what it means to the tax authorities, if that person either for ignorance or for other reasons makes a mistake in this process, I don't know, and then it goes into the process of determining the generated income. These are not the solutions we could make from today to tomorrow. And the situation in Slovenian agriculture, respected applicants, is bad at the moment, despite the introduction of direct payments, subsidies. See the 2003 report! The 2003 report, although we also survived a catastrophic drought in this country, speaks of a gross added value from agriculture being only 1.6%, a factor income in agriculture falling by more than 20% and that the number of employees in the agricultural sector is decreasing. So this is the data published by the Agricultural Institute. But of course, all of this did not have any weight when you introduced this system and when we warned you: wait, we cannot make any new tax policies from tomorrow on agriculture. What this amendment to the Cadastrian Income Act, which you say is already in the parliamentary procedure, will bring, we don't know, because we haven't had time to look at it in all this work. However, this law should be passed before we can see what will be the change in this area. As a result - I will say about the magnetogram for the future - such a way of taxation will be that Slovenian farms will fall even faster, that young people will not see opportunities in farming, that they will do what they do today, that they prefer to go to the factory to work for that pay, that they move to the cities and that they remain old farms in the countryside. The average age of Slovenian farmers is greater than 50 years. Isn't that what you're worried about? What, though, can help people who are on average over 50 to make this agricultural situation better? And one more thing! The common European agricultural policy, which Slovenia will also have to adopt by 2007 at the latest, and if we are in a position to do so earlier, goes in this direction to accelerate its support for extensive production in order to support smaller agricultural operators. Thus, we should also follow these trends seen in Europe in the field of tax policy, because the great industrial way of farming brings them too many problems if we want to talk about environmental protection if we want to talk about healthy food production and everything that belongs to this sector and this area. Unfortunately, I note that with such solutions our Pmurje will be, if you want, from which also comes Mr Pucko, who greatly praises this law to our Haloze, the Slovenian Mountains, and not to mention - all rural areas remain even more infested than they are at this moment! And then what will be the net effect in the common state treasury? The net effect will be negative not even zero, but minus, because as much as you gain in this new way of taxation, you will lose so much that this production will continue to be smaller and smaller that Slovenia, as it is now, will become increasingly dependent on food imports. Slovenia, including this in the 2003 Report, is increasingly importing, and we are increasingly spending more and more money on food items that could be produced at home at this time. Just for the end. Because of such and similar decisions, we are moving, at least for the moment, to the sugar factory in Ormož, because this is not possible for us to move our agricultural production to neighbouring countries, currently in Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u31	Franci Rokavec has the floor for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the Minister with his coworkers. Dear Members. The basic objective of the applicant or the government in submitting the Income Act was to ensure greater fairness between taxpayers. That sounds very nice. Probably, if we look at the law itself, it even has that purpose in most people. However, this law also makes a greater distinction between certain groups. This law does not mean that in fact some of the problems of smaller groups of citizens and citizens would try to solve them in this spirit. I will refer to the discussion of the predecessor, I have already talked about this several times in this National Assembly - but this is the following: that any farm can be a shareholding company or d.o.o. in small. By our legal order, of course, our farms cannot be. However, this Income Act, of course for non-farm legal entities, allows for such payments, subsidies as income which are not directly taxed, and, contrary to this, according to the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies for Natural Persons as income taxed. This is a key issue in the Income Act and in the relation to the taxation of subsidies and then the other key issue of inadequate cadastral income, which is inadequate, which does not follow the income situation in agriculture and at least, of course, which should be addressed to the applicant, is that, of course, at that time, the new law was not equally applied to the procedure and also dealt with in the law on the determination of cadastral income. Because if we received a new law on income, we should also receive a new law on the determination of cadastral income in this spirit. We have received it, it has been quickly put into Parliamentary procedure and in this turmoil, as has been said, it is simply not possible to process it and give a credible opinion as to what this proposal is, or it follows the objective of actual identification of income and the elimination of any nonsense that is under existing law or not. Thus, we are in this situation that farmers will be taxed twice on this segment. I claim, twice, and that is, in my opinion, the constitutional dispute of this determination. In fact, it is unacceptable for a catastrotic income generated on a farm to be determined, and you also charge him additional subsidies, that is true. In particular when this cadastral income does not reflect the comparison of farm income. Indeed, we know that in the last ten years KD has increased by a hundred percent, but the income position of farmers has, of course, fallen; indeed, it has fallen, despite subsidies. And here we are in that vicious circle and also a statement to the Minister that he did not follow enough of the comments that were in this direction, the observation that in fact this area of subsidy taxation would have been postponed to a transitional period of three years, and only at the time when a new Cadastrian Income Identification Act had actually been established, did we find where we were and then on the basis of this have also taken decisions whether or not we are covering all payments with a new Cadastrian Income Determination Model. In other words, farmers can also manage simple accounting under this law. Of course - big farms, not small farms, semi-farms. I think it is very confusing for this country to think that we will come overnight or at any time to pure farms. We also need to maintain smaller farms if we are to maintain rural settlements. And here is the question that for these few hectares each small farm has, we know that the management of simple accounting does not count. And here we are in that other vicious circle that needs to be properly resolved. From this point of view, I believe that this law did not cover the segment of this group of basic objectives of ensuring greater fairness between taxpayers, but this gap is further increased. I would briefly touch on some other issues that have already been raised today, as well as on the issue of equal treatment in the field of culture, students and persons with disabilities. Here, too, we know that we have found in the procedure itself and have been able to find that for certain groups this situation is also getting worse with the new Income Law. On this basis, I would, in fact, expect and still expect a clear reply from the Minister after this debate at a time when there are no other options, whether the law is adopted or rejected. Whether the Ministry of Finance will examine all these key comments and attempt to amend the law before the introduction of the new law on income, because this is the only possible solution, a possible solution to avoid that good solutions by rejecting this law would not, of course, be rejected. Of course, if such a clear word is given by the Minister and the Coalition, but if this clear word is not available, then I do not think that the law will reflect the basic objective of ensuring greater fairness between taxpayers. I therefore also look forward to the answer to this question raised by the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anton Butolen gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Mr Minister with his fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members! We have been discussing the Income Act for the fourth time. In these discussions four points or four sets of talks were highlighted: the family, reduced special relief from 3% to 2%, agriculture and culture. It is too little time to touch on all these matters, but in the first place I would like to say that in the debates it is exposed as if the Income Act is the only law that determines how individuals will live in that country. However, we do have a number of other policies that regulate both family benefits and family life as well as agriculture and culture. More than 85% of taxpayers will be new in the first two payment classes and these two payment classes are the most burdensome. I prepared a calculation for the average income for 2003, which was 3 million 38 thousand 400, and a calculation that both marriages with two children deserve this average. If I subtracted social contributions, general benefits, 2% of the benefits and relief for two children from one of the parents, I would pay them both a total of 623 thousand 482 tolars, under the new law 461 thousand 776 tolars. That is to say, there will be 161 thousand 606 tolars in the family budget. That's what this law brought. And now to say that this law is not socially oriented, that it burdens families and so on, is unwise, is stupid and, of course, is demagogic. You need to take the paper and calculate it. Of course, it would be wise to look at the budget that we have adopted and look at the data that regulates other incomes or family benefits. Let us look at transfers that go to families that have a significant and significant impact on the situation of families. Just for 114 billion -- I'm not going to list them, maybe someone else -- which is 114 billion dollars of income, from the children's allowance, and so on, that's what these families are getting. Specially banal is the debate on the reduction of the special relief from 3% to 2%, not to emphasise that the overall relief has increased from 11% to 17.2%); that the general tax rate for the minimum payment grade has decreased from 17% to 16%. Please kindly, the percentage for which we have had to collect accounts so far, that percentage but we can earmark for culture, for books and everything else, with an additional important change, so that no accounts will have to be collected. We can also use them for Karitas, for the Red Cross, just as anyone would like. This, of course, is directly left in the pocket of an individual. Of course, the second question is why he should be prescribed by taxes or by law. As far as agriculture is concerned, 55% of the borrowers have a lower agricultural income than a total of 17.2%). 95% of the debtors receive a subsidy that is less than the total relief of 17.2%), although we will complete it, so farmers will meet the income table, take into account the benefits, say, overall relief, will be taken into account for family members and will take account 2% of the special relief. It's not hard to calculate that small farmers won't pay their income. The percentage of those who pay will be very small. We also have a series of other policies here that in one way or another help these farmers survive. However, it will be essential to regulate the cadastral income after the new, and I agree with that. As far as culture is concerned, it is likely that others will talk more about it. Marriage could be different, and the question is whether it would be better. I would say, however, that we have other assistance for culturers here as well; we give 1507 individuals almost a billion to pay social contributions. I don't have any exact data on how many special pensions there are. Let me mention that in 5 years the number of those who are paid additional pension insurance, cultural people, has increased from 1000 to 1500. We have subsidised publications and publications, monographs at the Ministry of Education, at the Ministry of Culture, etc., could be listed indefinitely. If I squander, I think that the law is better than the current one, that it is better than the proposal at the outset, so that the law is good. I would point out once again that the law could also be different, but the question is, if it were better then, I would have a different message and I believe that the basic message of this law is that Slovenia is not only a social state and family-friendly state, but that the social unit is still increasing. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u35	France Tsukati got his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. It is heartwarming to hear how very kind we are, how very much we take into account the new tax legislation of the lowest layers, how we relieve them and burden them. It is even said that we will divide some 10 billion, 100 billion into these poorest layers in this way because we will raise the level of basic tax relief from 11% to 17%. Gentlemen, this is like that commercial that says if you go buy golf now, you'll save 320 grand. It is also because tax relief is not a gift from the State, not a kindness from the Minister of Finance, but a right of the citizen. Why? It is the fact that those resources which a citizen deserves and is unconditionally necessary for survival, that is to say, which represent the minimum income for survival, must not be taxed by that country. This would be unfair, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the principles of the social state. Therefore, in 1996, the Constitutional Court also said that it was necessary to correct and define a child's allowance, at the minimum cost necessary for the child's survival. And if we go back to the basic tax relief, which you're talking about very nicely, it's going to rise from 11 to 17%. What does 17% of the average wage mean today? It means 32 grand a month. Who can survive with 42 grand a month today? Who? The minimum cost of survival must not be taxed, because if the country takes more from that, then we have more poverty, then more judicial aid is needed, more transfer is needed and this is happening to us all the time. We collect and transfer, so that, of course, at meetings of this colloquial event we can also collect in mud. To go back to the children's relief. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that a new value must be defined, the value of the basic costs necessary for the survival of the child. And then the ministry said that this law would raise the child's relief from 10 to 13.8% of the average palace. And once again, 10% of the average wage is 25 grand a month, which means 800 tolars a day. Who can survive a child for 800 tolars a day? Just bread and milk three times a day, nothing, no sweatshirts, no pants - nothing. And, of course, we are now generously giving an increase in this tax relief to 13.8%. Now that's 34 grand a month or 1,100 dollars a day. I hope that the Constitutional Court will once again be decisive and will require a correction of theology to the real amount, as in 1996, and we have not fixed it to date. What, though, is the basic cost that children need to face? As I said, the research was done, which was found in that survey of 13.8 average wages, but the minister kept silent that the researchers themselves, economists said it did not allow for a more lasting survival. That's what they say. He also buys sneakers and pants, but just like I said, bread and milk three times a day. And if we were to look for where that sum should be taken into account in the tax relief for the child, then perhaps there is a comparison with foster care, where material costs are recognised as foster care, only material costs, amounting to 54 grand. And when we adopted this under the foster care law, the ministry representative said, "That's not what we know, because we know that these are not all material costs, but if we admitted all material costs, then the main moment of admission of children into foster care would not be love anymore, but perhaps already economic interests." So, even if you considered 54 grand as recognised basic material costs per child, that would mean 21.6% of the average wage and not just 13.8. Like I said, you can't expect to reject the law. We believe that it is not only because tax reform is needed that there is not enough reason to support any law - no, a good law must be upheld. And of course, because this law in this sense is not good and it continues the unfair attitude not only towards culture, agriculture and the like, but also to the children, which I have now warned about, we and, of course, I will not support this law and I urge Members to reconsider whether it would not be more fair to deal with all these categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u37	I invite Franco Lenkot to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] Joseph Kavtičnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman. I salute the minister with my team. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that this is a law on income, not a law on social or economic aid. I myself am not most satisfied with certain solutions in the law, especially when we are talking about working disabled people and I have talked about this several times. For I personally believe that these desalinations should be received, i.e. the relief of income compensation, including working persons with disabilities. However, I can say that marriage as a whole is better than it was before and relieves those who need relief. The law provides special reliefs in agriculture, increases allowances for the maintenance of family members, special reliefs for cultural workers, in particular independent cultural workers, increased workload, special reliefs for disabled persons and disabled organisations, with the exception of disabled workers, as I have already mentioned. Special benefit is given to professional athletes. The tax base of the employment relationship does not include the premium of voluntary pension and disability insurance, here I think for these professional athletes. The proposed arrangement takes into account the specificity of sports careers and therefore proposes a higher tax relief, amounting to 100% of mandatory contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance and not more than 50% of the athlete's gross annual income. Such a solution also stimulates athletes to provide additional pension and disability insurance during the active period. This solution is particularly an incentive for young athletes and is therefore of particular importance. However, I would like to say that there is one weakness here too, because the benefits are not given to athletes who are not professionals, and it would be right for you to be too, but just that is the case with the reliefs. When we talk about relief we can never be 100% satisfied and the question is whether we are always righteous here. However, I believe that the law is good in its entirety and that is why I will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u39	Thank you. Private Cheligoy? No, no, no. Irma Pavlinič Krebs gets a word for his discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Representatives and representatives, Mr. Minister, welcome. Of course, I am saddened when after four years of working in this National Assembly, but by fellow Members who are constantly monitoring our work, we experience the following statements: "You collect and transfer so that you can fish in mud." All the allegations that we are not running an appropriate social and family policy, respected fellow Members, you know exactly how they are in our country. If we look at the budgets that we are adopting, we can see precisely that we have fairly social and family-oriented budgets in our country. In 2003, 114 billion tolars were dedicated to supporting social and family policy in our country. We all know that it is better, in the form of direct transfers, to help the people most in need, that, of course, I will talk about it below, not to ignore the adoption of the law that we are re-declaring today. And this 114 billion isn't about fishing in mud, it's about baby supplements, it's about baby care supplements. We know that maternity leave for one year is also among those in the European Union that is valid for all recognition, then the allowance for a large family, co-financing of meals in primary schools, in secondary schools, student diet, transport of students, repressing care in kindergartens. It's not fishing in mud. These are direct transfers to families to support social and family policies. And not only are we concerned with balance there, but we have also worked hard in the law that we are adopting today, and we have installed this significant social component. In addition to increasing the overall tax relief from 11% to 17.2%), the level of special allowances for child supporters increases significantly from 10% to 13.8%, according to the current system. It has been highlighted several times. And the result, respected fellow Members, of such built-in solutions also in the Income Act, may be a claim that holds, and not your claim that I have to say again that it does not. The claim, which holds, is that the adopted law also improves the income position of Slovenian families. Of the special benefits to families for 7 billion net earnings in the pockets of our Slovenian families, the state budget will be easier for the purpose and 37 billion for the general benefits of the Slovenian people. Therefore, I ask you to be correct in your statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kramberger was already in the hall when I gave my word to my colleague Irma, and now I'm giving it to him. The good two minutes are still available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! For a moment, I would like to complement two other colleagues who have appeared before me. We can see that this law does not reflect the financial situation in Slovenia, which we are currently in. I think it's even too much, I'd say, kind, and maybe we could say it's even a little pre-arranged. But no matter how much I had the opportunity to speak to the minister when this law was passed by the government at its meeting, and the minister also somehow promised that we would have some more talks for agriculture, when as a coalition party, but that did not happen anyway. I estimate that the agricultural sector is indeed not adequately and well-saved. We are now aware that, in accordance with the procedure, when we decide on this veto today, we cannot change that either. However, I expect the Minister to give his views on this issue in his final reply today. Look, the income position of farmers is decreasing from year to year. What was said to be direct payments, particularly environmental payments, are exempt from this taxation, is true, but other direct payments are not exempted from this. We need to make this correction with cadastral income and prepare these matters very clearly and professionally. If we do not do so - to understand each other correctly, I do not plead that agriculture would be exempt from taxes far from this, but that taxes in agriculture must be regulated so that the income situation does not deteriorate. Experts note that over 20% per year the income position is deteriorating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Franz Sušnik has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! The Income Act in Chapter III specifically taxes or aims to tax the income from basic agricultural and basic forestry production, which will also include all direct payments. That is a fact, and that is why I also agree with the procrastination veto of the State Council, and I will not support the law. I think that you have deliberately or unintentionally overlooked here some of the facts that have not been invented by Slovenian farms, which have not been invented by people from rural areas, but who have been recognized and recognized by agrarian economists, who are in one way or another bound to the state budget, and I think that these facts, too, show a marked deterioration and a permanent deterioration in the economic situation of the Slovenian farmer already because they have been identified or written by people who are bound to the state budget, do not actually show a bad situation in the field of agriculture. No one is able to count today how many farms actually shut down every day. The rural picture is based on such a policy, which has reached its climax with this bill, by trying to tax what the country and the European Union are trying to give to the farmer in order to make up for the loss it faces in its production due to the market situation. Look, this is kind of strange without understanding such measures and it is also impossible to understand that you have consciously overlooked the difficult situation in the field of agriculture as proponents. By the way, when calculating agricultural land processing costs, the agricultural production calculation also takes into account agricultural production processing, and manual processing and such things, which are now fully surviving, puts it all together into an even more strange situation. At the turn of the new Minister of Agriculture, Dr Pogačnik, I will say what I will say is surprisingly free of charge that Slovenian agricultural policy has in the last period enacted and prescribed in the agricultural field a number of superstandard matters that burden and make farming conditions difficult in the Republic of Slovenia, and I also promise that he will now try to eliminate these superstandards and equalise farming conditions with the conditions of farming in the neighbouring countries of Italy and Austria. For the sake of this fact, our farmers face strange issues such as a medical certificate in inland transport, such as up to ten times the cost of slaughtering bovine animals, which is conditioned by abnormally strict and abnormally restrictive treatment of slaughterhouse waste, now taxation of direct payments in the agricultural field. It's strange not to say at least irresponsible and I'm just wondering what these same agrarian economists who have, at least as far as I know the last four years, are going to see in all the reports on the agricultural situation from year to year a deterioration in the economic situation in the area of agriculture. This is very wrong, very questionable. On the other hand, the bill's proponents claim that, as a result of general relief, you will exclude from the income obligation a whole range of low-income people, tax beneficiaries. Have you asked yourself what will be the situation of 200,000 people, who are directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture, in this additional taxation of direct payments? In the fact that these direct payments have also been found by your experts not to cover the loss or unrealistic loss of prices, price reductions and cost of production. There's something else I'd like to say. I am certainly not happy and I am concerned that in Slovenia there are 60, 70, or 100,000 workers who are exempt from income payments. This suggests poverty, that our workers, the worst-paid workers, work for a man for an unprofitable salary, such a salary that a decent country cannot tax or hope for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u45	Thank you. My colleague Majda Shirca gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Allow me to talk about one segment of this law, or one that touches on the issue of independent cultural workers, as they once were, or self-employed in culture, as they are today called. It's a spectrum of creators that maybe represents a relic of socialism for a lot of people. But I am proud to say that this is a very important measure of our legislation, which has been maintained in the last decade and which has not been terminated by this so-called liberal and capital logic of the system, unlike many other countries, in the transition period or a system that is even better than those known by developed Western European countries. It is true, however, that the current tax legislation introduces a distinction between those who have the possibility of employment in the field of culture and those who do not have or that more than 2000 workers, who are not a formless crowd of people, but a recognizable society of creators, have certain opportunities for relief. In short, the crowd that the state or free markets do not have to hire because of their specificity. In some ways, in the notes, the State 'employs' them with status decisions, on the status of so-called self-employed in the field of culture, as well as on the registration of self-employed persons allowing, in certain cases, the payment of contributions to pension, disability health insurance under certain conditions. For the category of self-employed persons in culture and for self-employed persons in the field of journalism, the law provides relief in the form of a reduction in the tax rate, a basis from an activity income of 15% of the annual income, up to a certain limit. In this case, we've decided on three, almost four million tolars. Of course, it would be questionable and, in some ways, unjustifiable if the same principle were applied to employees, i.e. to those who have certain security offered by the employment relationship. The extension of opportunities to the press profession is important from the point of view that you like to highlight with your colleagues when you like to talk about pluralism and even pluralisation of the media. Journalists have increasingly narrow employment opportunities. The media market is increasingly cruel, hard, and for those who decide on their own professions, in many ways also depends on capital that can, by the way, consume their freedom of profession. Personally, I think that it is such a measure, namely putting journalists in the picture and treating them in a manner similar to that of independent cultural workers, that I think it is a better, significantly more meaningful measure than one that could bring a certain media fund or that would open up pluralism in a way that could also seriously endanger the autonomy of journalism or give such a fund a political omen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Joseph Skolcz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I will continue where my colleague has finished, and I will say that Mr Peršak and the State Council with him at least at this point, when he speaks of the general deterioration of the situation in culture, is living in the wrong belief and this situation has been misinterpreted. See, that's how employees in media houses and cultural institutions get paid and all the contributions are paid. While the additional copyright work that these people do quite often is subject to the same burden as that of copyright in all other areas. From this point of view, it does not seem to me that it is necessary, because there is some work in the field of culture, to deal with it, for example, as if it were from another area of copyright. What seems very problematic to me is that Mr Peršak, who is not the last to come from the culture sphere, is actually working against an important segment of these cultural workers. So, against those who do their own profession. For the first time, tax legislation has brought some important novelty, especially personal relief for those who carry out self-employed personal work, as was said, in the field of culture and journalism, by entering into appropriate examinations up to 3 million 900. This means that this relief is absolute, and if they reach and even exceed this price, they can impose a relief of approximately 600,000 tolars at the annual level. Even if we went to recalculate these reduced standard costs with those that were before, it would show that, in fact, for people who are self-employed, this solution is even more favourable at this level by about 60,70 thousand tolars. [[Of course, calculations are also made.]] . But what is essential is this important novelty that, despite all of this, this independent personal work is favoured in some way and thus enables the realisation of parts of this national cultural programme, which we all speak of. Of course, it should be said that anyone who enforces copyright work or revenue from copyright works is given the possibility that, if they keep the relevant records, they can impose actual costs. Usually these are more than 10%, and even, in my opinion, this bookkeeping can be shown as part of these costs associated with the activity. Therefore, I regret that it is the cultural councilor who is destroying an essential novelty concerning cultural activity and non-acceptance that would mean a real disadvantage for about half of the people who are realistically recorded activities in the field of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the debate between Members and Members. He wants a proposalant, Mr. Peršak, a word. You presented your views at the beginning. Mr. Pershak has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u50	I'm going to answer in a fragmented way, so it might seem a little disconnected. But first, I have to say that this last omen is completely out of the vine. Simple math says it doesn't hold. The material costs, recognised or standardised costs have been reduced from 40 per cent to 10 per cent, including a 15% relief, that is 25 per cent if we add up to 6 per cent of that general benefit for minimum income, that is still only 32 per cent, says less than 40 per cent of the recognised costs, which are not currently taxed. Such an obvious attempt to discredit the proposal and, of course, I must most decisively reject it. The second topic is whether it is good to have those fees separated and the copyright revenue derived from those who are employed and also work in the field of art and autonomy, which is another topic. I'd like to say the next thing. One argument that the authors' incomes should be taxed more than before is that only 72.8 or 72.8 or 92 percent of the net income has been taxed. The reason is that the vast majority have so low income that they get their income back. There's no reason they're so undertaxed. They're taxed. If standardised costs are deducted, so far they have been taxed 25 %, that net income. But most of them, of course, got back, as previously said, belong to the poor. The reason for this is that these net incomes are untaxed at such an amount. Third thing I'd like to say. The proposer constantly argues for changes in the way that one part of the author's income is obtained on the basis of contracts, that it is also normal services and that most of the costs of these contracts are borne by the employer. This speaks either of ignorance or of misdirection. Of course, I have already concluded such contracts and also obtained orders of these kinds. What my employer, the so-called employer, gave me, in this case, was to a greater issue, the means of work, the space to work. The material I needed to do this, of course, I had to get it myself, I had nothing to do with the employer who the billmaker is talking about in his explanation of opposition to the veto. These are contracts with, say, RTV. For example, for a literary evening, you get a theme, an author to do a literary evening, you have to take care of everything else yourself, nobody gives a computer or anything like that. To compare, to say that the same high income of the self-employed person that has now been discussed in the field of culture has to be taxed in the same way as the same income of one employee in any sphere, is incorrect, because the self-employed person must ensure everything that the employer provides to the employee, and this is, of course, in the vast majority of cases, more than 40% of this income, which he ultimately generates, is much more than 40%, not 10% or something like that. That's the end of it, because it's already ringing. I regret to say, of course, that the very explanation of the government is that farmers will then be more taxed than they have been before. This, after all, is written explicitly in the tax so that they will receive two instalments of payment according to the present. Finally, I would say that this whole campaign on copyright is based on these treaties concluded by people who are not active in the field of culture. Today, you are punishing the culture of public officials working in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u51	Mr. Pershak, thank you very much. The word is given to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Let me just focus on some of the questions that have been asked here that seem important to me. Before I go into these questions, I just want to warn you. Mr Vizjak, in your debate, you said that the gross domestic product is lower in the European Union and Slovenia. Of course it doesn't. Even in the European Union, although there has been a recession, gross domestic product has grown, in Slovenia it is growing at least once faster. The second thing I would like to say about its implementation is that I have not said what a burden work is due to this law. Of course, that's what the explanation of the law says. But I also said in my opening address today that this is a 1.9% load and that we are going towards the average of the European Union, which is 37.8%; we are going to be 37.9%. But the countries that are now new members, with 41.1% of the burden, are said to be higher than we have. Next thing. There was talk of a seizure of 35, 37 billion. It's not about profit, it's actually about how much higher the tax burden on income is. Of this, 35 billion were seized from the corporate income tax law, which amounts to 35 billion. If I focus on some claims that certainly do not. The claim that the more appropriate burden distribution did not begin to resolve is not true because, for the first time, this law, which is the key thing, reduces the difference that I have already said between those who have the same income [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u53	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u54	Of course, from different sources, how they are burdened. [[...]] Under the current law, the difference between the least and the most burdened is 30 percentage points. After this new law, there are only 21 percentage points left and the law is more just than it was before. Secondly, this burden allocation was probably related to taxation of capital revenue. However, it should point out that when we impose capital revenues, we introduce an additional burden on interest that was not before, at the same time introduce an additional burden on capital gains, and we have also adopted a new law on corporate income tax, which significantly reduces relief and thus burdens capital income. From this point of view, income from capital is additionally taxed here and this argument cannot be maintained. Next comparison, a comparison from Forbes that we have relatively high tax revenues. Yes, that's true, but in Forbes you take the best paid, so you call the limit rates, the highest limit rates. So it's taken to see how taxed someone who has very high incomes is. And we are here in Slovenia, indeed, compared to other countries extremely high. It is said that those with the highest income pay relatively high taxes, but this is a matter of progressiveity, which is a social function. I believe we can have a problem with that in the future. However, this is only a confirmation that we have a large reallocation from those richest with those who have the smallest income, and this cannot be an argument that there is no proper burden distribution. If we take the data that are from Eurostat, which is the data that we are taking from the EU and that is the data that other countries are taking as "penchmark", then 67% of the average wage in processing activities is taken and then see how this salary is charged. From this point of view, we come to the EU average by this law, the EU 15. If we add new members now, because in the latest data there are 15 EU members and, in particular, if we add them up, we are below the EU average 25. The following claim that housing savings are not well taken care of in this Income Act cannot be held in fact. However, for housing savings we have an additional 2% relief. This additional 2% relief is not just 2%, that's 150 billion dollars interest, please. If you look at how many deposits in banks are actually burdened, if 4% of the interest rate is not that deposit, it's 3,750 billion tolar deposits. For so many applications, people can apply a special tax relief of 2%. So this claim cannot be held. However, if I also give you that the interest on housing savings is up to 10 years old from the interest they're taxing and that we still have 300,000 interest limits, I'm sorry, but there's no way that they can hold this claim. In addition, in another 2% in the additional 150 billion we still have maintenance of apartments and purchases of apartments or investments directly into the apartment. That's not how this claim works. The next question is the issue of agriculture. The problem of agriculture is a major problem for Slovenia. In Slovenia we decided to go to the European level of agricultural subsidies. No other country that has now joined the EU has this. We've gone far beyond what others can afford. Secondly, we have European taxation, but only after a transitional period, and this European taxation is only two of these subsidies: ECO 0 and ECO 1. ECO 2 and ECO 3 are not included in the taxation. But the problem with agriculture is not that. We are granting subsidies and will grant subsidies at EU level by 2007, even though we will still have a gross domestic product of 75.76%. However, the problem is that our farms are simply too small when compared to the hectares they have in other countries, these hectares are too small. If you have such small farms, they cannot compete with significantly larger farms in the EU, but we cannot support the economy with the additional burden so small and therefore the irrational farm because we will burden the economy, so this will not be competitive. That's how we're in trouble here. The solution must now be sought after what we have done after a transitional period, after the exclusion of certain subsidies and after these subsidies, practically at European Union level, it will be necessary to resolve the agricultural policy by increasing farms. Perhaps the last thing I would like to mention was whether the law would be open again before its entry into force and whether these reliefs, which have now been reduced, would increase again. I will tell you honestly if the law is to be reopened until it is put into effect, which I doubt, but if it is opened, it will not be opened to increase the benefits. With these reliefs that have now become more adaptable, we have essentially achieved smaller distortions in the labour market. If we have an open law, I guarantee you that greater international tax competition will require a reduction in relief rather than increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues, this concludes the debate. Before we proceed to the decision, I inform you that after the vote, I will order the announced recess. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the Income Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the national assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving on to decision-making. Before this explanation of vote. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the National Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that the Minister has pointed the heart of the problem in this last part. So the core of the problem is the budget revenue and the patchwork of these to come from the subject of tax policy to work or tax policy to capital. In his closing speech, the Minister stressed that the country would forget in full the small farms that this is an assessment of the so-called entry into the European Union. As well as the only capital revenue to be increased, the Minister counted the interest tax. According to our assessment, this is not the way to do it and we cannot count the new interest tax exclusively as capital reliefs, but it will be our assessment that it will touch everyone else in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. But I want to say a simple fact that you always ignore in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is precisely the opposite of or ignoring the warnings of the Slovenian National Party on the ratio of tax and tax revenues. This exchange, the introduction of new taxes would not be necessary if the tax revenues in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance were not monitored exclusively as tax revenues. According to our assessment, in this area, the ratio of tax and non-tax revenues should be, if not already European countries, as some Slovenian municipalities tending to raise recent revenues. As long as you are in this country and in connection with the third point of today's day, you will see the recent revenue as something optional and something you should not be trying to increase, and so much time in this country will be the appearance of this kind of political clientelism. I would also appeal to you, given that I know that today's law will be passed, that, at least when preparing the budget for the following periods, you try to take into account that budget revenues also consist of non-tax revenue, that this should not be a taboo topic, and that, in my opinion, the country is over-enriched by the State Administration, should not be financed solely from tax revenues. Slovenia should have a recent income. As long as you act this way, the result of the work you are doing will be exclusively new tax bases and raised tax bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u57	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Joseph Školč, then Dr. Bajuk, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would only use this explanation to further say that this system of reliefs, which is linked to independent personal work in the field of culture and journalism, is more favourable than it has been to this point. As it is not only necessary to look at this provision, which refers to 10% of the standard costs, and the provisions which refer to a 15% personal relief of up to 3 million 900, but also to see paragraphs 35 and 45, which provide for these types of activities to start counting at a 25% rate. Of course, we have already learned at school that it is not permissible to add up percentages because it does not work out in the end. Because it was done here, and it's 25 plus 15 plus 10 exactly 40. In other calculations, when taxes are to be paid, it turns out that this is more than 40, knowing that anyone who actually shows costs could go from 10% to actual costs, which could also be 70%. I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law. I will further explain, however, because, after this meaningless system, which we have in this national assembly to limit the presentation of positions to a few minutes, it is impossible to fully present views on certain problems. Of course, I don't know what we're protesting, because it's become a common practice now to commit votes and make it impossible for Members to express their opinions, as one would expect in some normal democratic, parliamentary system. Above all, from a professional point of view, it is totally unacceptable that the government will now finally legislate - it will certainly - and this is that there is too much difference between taxation, as far as interest is concerned, and as far as capital gains are concerned, by the fact that in the first three years, someone who will sell and pay 50% of capital in the first three years seems completely pointless to us in New Slovenia, that is, an increase of 30, which have now been in the current law, to 50%, that is pointless. That's what we've been alerting you to, but all our warnings are a waste of time. As for the data, we obviously have different views as to what the consequences of this law will be. The government insists on its views that it will be all right, but we are on the average of the European Union at once. The Minister said in his presentation that we would reduce taxes by 1.9% on wages, while the representative of the Liberal Democracy spoke of 3.2%. Those are the very words. However, when the reality is clear, when we have real statistics, we will see that these were empty words and that the warnings of the opposition were true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u61	Voice explanation, France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u62	On behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u63	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u64	Yeah. Of course, we support the State Council's proposal to re-examine, once again, to reconsider this law, from a number of arguments, one of which is a basic unfair approach to taxation of certain layers. One of these, of course, is a layer of parents. Let me repeat that, in fact, the Constitutional Court has demanded a fair settlement or elimination of the criminal taxation of parents who care for children, the reproduction of the nation, the preservation of the nation. The current relief only predicts 34,000 tolls per month per child, for the first child. This is, of course, unfair, because the cost per month is higher, real costs are higher, and parents must be provided with these costs, regardless of their salary. Even those who have a higher salary should not have a child tax, for what they spend more than 34 000 per child must also pay tax, income. The Constitutional Court’s request was to determine, determine, establish, the real minimum costs relating to the upbringing of children, by means of maintenance, as this upbringing and the maintenance of children is also ordered by parents under the criminal code. If they take the child seriously and do not take care of him, they are even criminally responsible. Not to mention a constitution that pays sufficient attention to children, but of course we do not take this into account. We feel that this is unfair and that is why we cannot uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u65	Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law. I am pleased, however, that Mr Minister is aware of all these problems that have been faced. I am particularly pleased that, among other things, the agricultural problem is also aware. However, if you think that through the system of legislation to increase Slovenian farms, then I must tell you that here you may even have a wrong idea. Firstly, it is not possible to increase Slovenian farms until our workers in factories earn a little over 70,000 tolars per month because agriculture needs as an additional activity to survive. Another time. Although this subsidy would not pay the land to be processed in this progressive scale of taxation, they will not be able to sell it for the benefit of some large farm because more than 70% of Slovenia is difficult to process. And in this area, you can't just imagine making big farms. It's not possible. I'm surprised, and you didn't want to hear these arguments and the proposals to introduce a taxation system like that of neighbouring Austria. Austria is by structure, by surface, by size, the most comparable to Slovenia and knows two systems: for small farms, flat-rate taxation, as we know it today in Slovenia, while for larger farms it introduced this principle, which you are introducing for everyone today. This is the possibility of basic bookkeeping and, after that, also the deduction of certain costs arising from farming. And once again, what we're legislating isn't just a problem. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] social groups of farmers, this is the problem of the whole country, because future Slovenian agricultural areas will grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u67	Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. The purpose of the veto is to re-examine the content of the law and, of course, after consideration, decide whether or not the law will reject it and accept it as soon as possible, or even when it is adopted, by means of a clear commitment to try to resolve certain issues, shortcomings, within a certain period of time. In this case, nothing has been done. Surely the questions I have raised to the Minister are so great in the field of agriculture as to indicate, of course, a renewed effort to resolve this issue even in the post-adoption and pre-implementation proceedings. This was not assured by the Minister that, of course, this segment would also try to address the imbalances that have been put in this law, given the situation. In fact, the introduction of greater fairness between taxpayers is deteriorating with regard to this segment. What is more questionable, however, is the questionable approach that we will try to increase our own structure through the Income Law as soon as possible. Even more sad is the fact that this law brings a distinction between a farm which, according to the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture, is the main cell for the development of agriculture in Slovenia. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] to legal persons, of course, where the farm is in a subordinate position in this case. [[...]] From this point of view, because there was no serious purpose in this consideration, I will, of course, vote against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u69	We have four more explanations for the vote. Anton Butolen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u70	Thank you very much. It is impossible to expect this law to solve all the problems in this country. However, statistics show that 86% of taxpayers are in the first two payment classes. In the area where I come from, there's more of them. And these 86% of taxpayers have so far paid more than 49% of their total income; according to the new one, they will pay about 36%. Such an important recovery of 86% of taxpayers is a valid reason enough for me to back up this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u71	Thank you. Jože Ashitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In fact, the opposition is fortunate to know that we will gather enough votes and we will re- back up the law. Otherwise, they would probably be more thorny, since the law is certainly good, it is in line with the fiscal options available to this country. He solved those problems that the government has assessed to be solved to the best possible extent. This is a relief, a relief, a family, a special and general and a variety of others. It is normal for each marriage to leave open matters that will have to be resolved when we have the opportunity to do so. For this reason, I will support the law so that those who vote against the fig in their pocket will not be on thorns because they will practically pray for the marriage to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u73	Thank you. The word is Aloys Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A number of diplomats have turned to me in this law, and you all know that Slovenian diplomacy is not exactly the place of opposition. They turned to me because of the concern related to the application of the principle of universality of income, which is a welcome principle, I have nothing against it, but together with Slovenian diplomats I oppose that the Slovenian government and the coalition that supports it do not want to follow the example of Germany, France, Spain and any other countries that know the exceptions in this area. That is why this law does not work for me in Europe, it works for me quite in the old spirit of the so-called 'gleichschaltunge', which is all in the same way, which does not reflect mental health and political sensitivity. That is why I think it would be better for the government to follow these examples, as - I have heard - that, in fact, with this law, it will cause diplomats to have to raise their salaries, that they can pay their taxes if I say so, because after that happens, they will read this law so that you can get paid monthly, of course, the rent will go into your income, and if it holds what has been said that the status of diplomats should not get worse, it will be necessary to raise their salaries in order to be able to pay the state. It seems foolish to me, of course I will not undermine it, but I have heard that when people vote, 70% think that this law will burden them more than ever. The voice of the people is clear about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u75	Please don't disturb the debaters. Dr. Joseph Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and escort. This law is as important as all others as part of the tax legislation we have adopted. Personally, I will not vote in favour of this law for the reason that we did not have a real debate, a time for real discussion, about the things we should be solving. Much has been said for or against this law. However, I somewhat agree with the opinion of an economist who is not very popular with the government, who wrote in December that this law is not socially optimal, as far as the economic and social impact is concerned I agree. He also says that he expects that this law will soon have to be amended. I don't know if you agree with that. The fear I have is that this marriage will remain and nothing will change. There are no doubt many interests that are not justified or satisfied. Otherwise, I will not owe a financial ministry that has probably invested a lot in this matter, but we would probably need another spiritual advisor to draw your attention to some of the problems of our people. Unfortunately for that, I will not support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u77	Thank you. And Ivan Kebrich, the explanation for the vote. I see there'll be more applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of Members, please. When we listened to all the discussions and also talked about how the tax burden is shifted, it is essential that in the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia we have a social agenda at the top of our programme. Every transfer of burdens, this time of tax, is at the expense of one another. That is why we will support this law in our parliamentary group, because it does, to some extent, as I said in the introduction, the lowest social strata and to a greater extent burdens those who have been in a more favourable position so far. Of course, we all understand that they are now shouting and screaming because their tax burdens will be a little higher than they had taken before. We think that's fair. Surely, however, in the future, there will be a lot more to be gained from this debate than in the preceding time of the adoption of the law itself, and it will help us to improve it in the future, especially at the expense of those who hardly date, regardless of whether they are now slightly less burdened by income and, on the other hand, we think that this is a basis for improving living standards. I repeat that we will support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u79	Thank you. Mag. The Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will not support the law alone, especially for three key reasons. The first reason is that the law does not burden work to the extent necessary, so Slovenia remains still at the top of the most tax-intensive countries as far as work is concerned. But it does not touch on the taxation of what we see practically at every step in Slovenia, it is, of course, that any interference with transition rich people who, in periods of one or the other, have been irregular and even appointed, who, of course, have become rich beyond the bounds of reasonableness, and of course will not pay the country anything. I won't support the law either because the destimulating of the payment of the authors' fees is going in the wrong way. Instead of strictly exercising control over what is copyright work and what is not copyright work, it makes it less attractive and wants to make it unattractive. Nor will I oppose the law, especially because the government, as well as the honourable Members, have listened to the family initiative and, unlike the initial proposals, have maintained progressive tax reliefs for a multi-child partnership. Last but not least because the government has given in to certain pensions and no longer includes them in the tax base. That's why I'm not going to argue with this, and because of the above, I'm not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u81	Thank you. Geza Juban has a word to explain his voice and then Cyril Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. Finally, in his explanation, the representative of the Council of State informed Members that it was an essential problem or a basis for veto culture. However, from the explanations of the votes and debates of fellow Members, we have been able to conclude that this is not all true, which is to them as some basis for the veto voted by the Council of State. At the same time, there has been manipulation of various groups of affected citizens through this law, which is supposed to be affected, and that is not true. One of the major areas of manipulation is agriculture, which we have heard about here indefinitely, what will happen, and of course it is not true again. We have found from the data that very small groups of citizens will be affected through taxation under this law, while others, as well as some colleagues, are threatening to be picked up because of this law, of course nothing is true. On the one hand, relief, on the other hand, the possibility of more precise management of the farm costs suggests that the government will raise little money here and will have little financial benefits and, of course, this is why I will support the law, but it is to expect some misinformation that will follow, because the time of enforcement of certain burdens is such that, of course, permission will be able to manipulate citizens as it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u83	Thank you. My friend Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will vote in favour of this law. First of all because it is the only law in Slovenia, which is the most burdensome of the average taxpayer. They acquire the lowest income, all those with a tax base of up to two average wages earn by 3.2% or their tax burden is so low. They acquire families with dependent children, they gain different interest groups and I will support this law because it follows a social agreement because it follows the wishes of stakeholders in agriculture. And, as has already been said, once we have passed a cadastral income law, all the conditions set by these groups in the debate will be met. I will also support the law because I do not want to vote against Slovenian citizens and citizens, because voting against it means voting against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u85	Thank you. More mag. Marco Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to vote the opposite against this law. No one has ever convinced me that the benefits of this law will affect, I say, better conditions in this country. Why? Because, in my opinion, there is a small cut in this law that would allow for greater workload and increased taxation of capital. Then I think we have lost a great deal of opportunity to allow young families to make it easier to move on their own, especially with regard to housing facilitation. We all find that housing problems in the Republic of Slovenia are plaguing. What we are prepared to do in this sense is also to make income reliefs, which in my view are very gentle and only in some way patched to the problems that are exposed. I think there's a big flaw. With a slightly longer-term concept, certain income from income may be waived for a short period of time and, at the same time, could be derived from other titles such as value added tax, and I have already explained these matters further. And I think it's a huge flaw in this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u87	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u88	Thank you. I didn't mean to call, but I'm going to make it clear and loud that I'm going to vote against it. But not against the Slovenian people, but against the law. Only if the Slovenian nation wants the new tax obligations it receives and some higher tax rates that are obvious and visible. But if this is what the people want, then of course, let us vote as my distinguished colleague has said. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u89	And my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I will vote against the law, not because the law as a whole is bad - it is an important law and is needed. However, I speak with my explanation because some of the countries are once again filled with ashes when they explain their voices. This law incorporates solutions that are totally the opposite of this. Solutions which form an integral part of the political marketing of the election year and which Mr Minister correctly identified. Even if the marriage opens, the relief will not increase, but will diminish. However, it would be good for some of the benefits to be increased in this law, especially those aimed at building an apartment, maintaining a house and so on, since the quota of allowances is immediately too large to be taken into account. Therefore, there will still be no need for crafts and thus to continue to bill for the work done and will not pay VAT, because those who order the service do not have any need to have an account, because it does not mean anything to them in terms of reliefs, the sum of sumarum is at the end of the year. The revenue in the State budget is lower than it would have been if the invoice had been issued for each job and VAT had been charged. That is why this law - the Minister himself knows - should have a slightly different approach in different segments - and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u91	Colleagues and colleagues! We conclude the explanation of vote. We're moving on to a decision, please. Check out your voting devices. We're voting. There are 77 of us present, 49 Members and Members voted in favour of the law, against 24. (For the vote was 49.)(against 24.) I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item and gives me a 30-minute break, which is until 13.43. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u92	We're at 2. Agenda items - Defence of the Final Report on Parliamentary Investigation for the purposes of determining the liability of persons and holders of public powers in connection with the purchase and sale of electricity, for the sake of cesar it was allegedly caused by economic damage in the system of Slovenian electricity. First of all, I thank the President and the Commission for having completed her work in this mandate to submit a final report to the assembly so that we can address it. It's more than three hours to deal with; let's hope that's enough. First, I will give the floor to the President of the Commission, my colleague Kelemini, to present the conclusions which will then be the subject of the views of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament in the debate. Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you also for your encouraging words regarding the completion of the work of the investigative commission, the electrical commission. However, I must, unfortunately, first of all, on my behalf and also as President of the Commission of Inquiry - and I hope, on behalf of at least the work of the members - to strongly and decisively protest unilaterally against business restrictions, it is said that it is time to present the final report of the Commission of Inquiry and its three-year work in the fights of ten minutes. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not impose restrictions on applicants in any provision. Such restrictions are also not in line with current practice. Why this limit, why just ten minutes? This is the first time in the history of the Slovenian Parliament that in such a grave and drastic way you try to shut the mouth of the investigative commission and prevent the Slovenian public from being properly informed about the investigation. We estimate that, instead of a limit of ten minutes, the parliamentary majority, members of government parties, should take unlimited time to contribute to the elimination of negative situations in the country in order to ensure that something like this never happens again. Now it is obvious that Parliament and members of government parties who are most responsible for protecting and respecting the rule of law in Slovenia, who are most responsible for the control and protection of Slovenian property and public money, have tried and tried to do so or have prevented the investigation commission and its President from properly presenting the three-year work and preventing the clarification of the cause of the multibillion-dollar economic damage to Slovenia. More than 14 billion economic damage was caused during this period under investigation. It is clear that the parliamentary government majority wants to prevent the debate, they do not care about the truth, they do not care about the honest work and well-being of all Slovenians, which they like to say, but they are obviously protecting their narrow party interests and by doing so, preventing an argumentated debate, protecting the interests of individuals who act against Slovenia for their personal benefit. In almost three years of the investigation, the Commission of Inquiry tried to be strictly correct. There have never been any complications or conflicts at any of the meetings. The Commission of Inquiry adopted the final report without a vote against. In the report before us, however, it is correct and based on the evidence, on the documents, on the documents and in its conclusions and conclusions it is mild and milky that, given the actual situation as it is, it cannot be any more - then why is this strong revolt on all sides of the report, why is the Commission so severely discredited?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u94	Mr. President of the Commission, may I interrupt?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u95	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u96	I've made up my mind, I hope I won't be a wuss about it, and in 10 minutes, I'll extend your chances of introduction. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If so, thank you for your understanding, then I will continue in a different style. But I'm surprised, though, as president of the commission of inquiry. See, yesterday he convenes a press conference of the government and a major part of the government, which is not mentioned in this report at all, or her minister with serious accusations against the commission, just look at this whole series of articles, and of course we wonder why the Minister, who is not mentioned in the report and is not the subject of an investigation, is being advertised. Apparently, the report, in spite of its milkiness, has become a nuisance, and I wonder why such attacks as these are. The Commission is supposed to address matters that are not partial to them, then a lot of inaccuracies and inaccuracies, that the report is full of nonsense, that we have mixed pears, apples and other vegetables. I understand that the Minister does not personally respect me as President of the Commission, I would probably rather see me dead a thousand times than one minute alive, because I am an MP who cannot be bought, but why so severe the discreditation of the other members of the Commission. Here is Mr. Pohorec, who is the Vice-President of the National Assembly - he is such an uncreditable member of this commission that he can spit on himself after the commission? Is Mr Grošelj, a recognised politician, an expert in various fields, an uncreditable member of the Commission, or is Mr Janc, Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, an uncreditable member of the Commission, an economic expert, a 12-year member of the National Assembly? I think, Mr President, that it would be necessary and urgent for the Minister to warn and send an appeal to apologize to the National Assembly because it offends the entire National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry with such pamphlets, which are indeed recorded in these documents or in such statements as have been made at the press conference yesterday. It's just a warning because I don't think it's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u98	I have extended it to you for 10 minutes on my responsibility, but now I just need to remind you that it is your task to present the Commission's report first in the introduction, and then it will be time for discussion and exchange of views. Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u99	Okay. In short, we believe that the Slovenian Parliament as a whole can allow such an important report on the three-year part of the investigative commission and the economic damage caused, at least by us, to be caused by more than 14 billion in Slovenia's electricity economy, to take time and not to place such a thing under the carpet as it has sometimes been or is admiring. And now, of course, about the content of the report. What was actually happening in the government before the shutdown was one of the most important issues that the investigative commission had to deal with. Who actually approved the shut-off and so on. I have a confidential document here, but I don't think he's trusted anymore because he's carrying a date in 1998. I will also dare to quote some of the provisions of this document, because they are extremely important and most important in this debate to understand the whole matter. I will mention only part of the material for the 64th government meeting, which was 4.6.1998, the material was submitted by the Ministry of Economic Activities, namely the proposal for the inclusion of the material at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the ownership and status of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. One of the options in which they sought to solve the problem of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is the following: I have to quote this simply because it is the most important document in the entire investigation: "In the case of unilateral moves by the Slovenian side it is necessary to realize that the Croatian parties cannot be forced to cooperate under our terms. The Croatian side has the opportunity to intensify the conflict with the payment of only that part of the invoices it recognises, which it is already working out in a milder form. It can also focus on other open issues, such as investment and decommissioning, on whether the Slovenian side can take the opportunity to have electricity from Krske. The assessment of the group is that this is in practice difficult to implement. Croatia would probably not respect our demand for reduction. However, if the power lines were to be shut down, this would have long-term negative consequences, both for Croatia and for Slovenia. The reasons are as follows. It would be difficult to define Croatia as an energy thief because unilateral moves cannot be based on existing treaties, SAS, [[self-administrative agreement]] , especially if not all legal recovery routes have been used to recover the invoices issued for the energy supplied and the power supplied." It's a very important point. The following point: "Slovenia could not properly renovate Croatian megawatts from Krskov, so it could not properly renovate until the legal status of the matter is clear and it cannot use so much passive energy alone without closing other important electrical facilities." Very clear point and position. "Croatia would be affected by the disconnection, but not so much to endanger it in its vital interests. Due to the specificity of their electricity facilities, its flexibility is short-term greater than that of Slovenia. An additional argument is the construction of a long-range project against Hungary, which is under preparation. Croatia can respond by increasing tensions in other areas such as the border, Slovenian property in Croatia and so on. Croatia could no longer be obliged to assume obligations for the decommissioning of NEKs and so on. In short, Croatia would also have launched a likely compensation process due to the lack of electricity. These reasons are in favour of an agreed solution." In other words, not 'fait accompli', but actually an agreed solution regarding the status of the Krško nuclear power plant. On the basis of this - this has happened, as I said before, 4.6.1998, before disconnecting - in fact, no decision has been taken on the basis of which electricity is to be cut off from Croatia. And in the conclusion of this document, important findings have been made, for example, that the energy price or that the work of the provisional management committee so far shows that a positive shift towards liquidity and operating conditions has been made, that the energy price has been balanced and that for the Croatian side from a unilaterally defined level of 2.5 cents has been raised to $2.65 and, since 1.1.1997, the practice of recovering depreciation and other activities has been abolished. Such a situation allows the NEC to lay sound financial foundations for accession to the modernisation project under the conditions of payment of the energy supplied. That's a good point. The dynamics of payment of commitments for energy supply show that Croatia's Elektroprivreda cannot follow such a real relationship, as the falling obligations for energy supply currently range from 1.5 billion to 2 billion SIT, without decommissioning. Therefore, a claim is made for the insurance of payments for future energy supplies. So in the mid-summer before the shut-off, it's about 2 billion debts, and there's some back-up liabilities, more than 3 billion. In all the reports that the government then cites, it speaks of 10 billion; now, if there is so much decommissioning there is another question. But, in short, you're obviously very contradictory. In short, the whole range of other findings and conclusions still exist in this area, not one negative one, on the basis of which electricity would need to be cut off. Here we also have the conclusions of another document, where it is once again said that non-recognition of agreed prices and late payments indicates the fact that the HEP is deliberately exerting pressure on the NEK or Slovenian side in order to achieve the application of its views in other areas, it is said, employment, management, industry participation, minimum costs and so on. On 13.7., that's about 20 days before the shutdown, a little less, HEP owes 2 billion 36 million dollars, without decommissioning. On 20 July 1998, an additional 440 million SIT came to light. In short, no reason to disconnect. Of course, but then the disconnect happened, and who forced him? He forced him without a government decision - without a government decision, he ordered Mr Dragonja to be shut down, then the Minister of Government, and also never after that the government discussed this proposal for a decision or this conclusion why it happened. There has never been any debate on this. Then, of course, it was later found, even in the same year, November or October, that the revenue of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant was out of revenue due to the unsupplied electricity from the Krška Croatian Power Plant. The export price is lower than the price charged by the Krško nuclear power plant to Croatian electricity companies. The price for HEP was 4.5 SIT per kilowatt-hour, the price in export, is assumed to be 3.2, the difference is 1.3. In fact, this price was significantly lower, so there was a large difference in the initial phase of electricity supply to Croatia. It is also noted here that the electricity system should provide an available system reserve of 893 million tolars for three months until October 1998 to cover the price difference between the supplied power power plant Krško for the Republic of Croatia, which was generated by exports instead of sales to Croatia. In short, there was no argument. This document clearly shows that energy should be cut off from Croatia, since no legal option or legal basis has been exhausted, legal possibilities for recovery following other legal routes of Croatian electricity debt. Of course, there are still a number of other issues that arise in this regard, but they are not that important. Now, if I draw my attention to the evidence and all that the Commission of Inquiry actually had to investigate during this period. In fact, the Commission had to identify the actual situation in this area for the period of withdrawal from the end of July 1998 to the first half of 2001. The full report, as I have already said, is based on evidence, credible documents, which are, however, very few. These documents are relatively small, one of the documents I have now shown is one of the most extensive, all of them are individual lists, where there is a small correlation between individual actors, the killing of irrelevant matters or a very small volume of documentation in this area between the government and other participants. In short, there are no conjectures in this report in the findings and actual state of affairs, all of which I have said is based on authentic documents. Of course, the question now arises as to which situations and behaviours the investigative committee has been most interested in. Surely only the conduct of Slovenia, the Slovenian government, Elesa, NEK, and not the conduct of Croatia were of interest to the investigative commission, because in the conclusion itself and in the evidence conclusion we have determined that the investigative commission should examine the actual state and responsibility of the public function holders in terms of purchasing and selling electricity for the Croatian part of energy which was not supplied to Croatia and sold to Eles or exported, in so far as there were surpluses. So we're not interested in Croatia. What measures Croatia has taken in relation to whether it has stepped up pressure on the Slovenian side on non-payments and so on, we assess ourselves, as is evident from this material, which I have previously read, that Slovenia has not exhausted all legal possibilities for settlement of recovery, but has unilaterally cut off the supply without a government decision, as we have then found. Certainly, it is also extremely important in all these studies that the responsibility of the holders of public functions, which were at the time in the relevant positions, has been irrefutablely demonstrated and that the findings of the Commission and then the conclusions of the Commission themselves, according to our assessment, are extremely mild. It would be correct for the State assembly to adopt such an important matter as an inquiry into the electro-investigative commission in the form presented, as it is clear from the whole procedure that none of the members of the Commission had any specific comments on the report itself and neither did any of the members of the Commission present a separate opinion. In such a way, the report, as submitted, is certainly appropriate for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u100	All right, Mr. President. Once again, let me express my satisfaction that we have the report on the bench. I said that - not for the sake of precedent, because the report of the commission of inquiry was an important parliamentary institution - it extended the possibility of your introduction once more. Please don't take this as a precedent. So now we will have almost three hours of debate, and before that, we will have a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Kebrich, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Experience, however, says that every suspect has the right to cast doubt, even if he is accused, and not for a little bit, but as we have read, for 14 billion Slovenian Tolars. In the parliamentary group, we have carefully read the Commission's report and, on the other hand, the answers or objections raised by the affected factors as to how they assessed their guilt, which they were exposed to, but not always fully proven, in view of the damage they were supposed to cause. Each case has two sides, not only a two-page medal, but also a bell and a voice, as presented from the Commission's point of view, which identified the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers regarding the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage in the Slovenian electricity system. The word "probably caused damage" is an important word. On the other hand, we know, at least those who worked or were employed in the electricity industry or industry, and if only the household listens, what it means to hear that if the electricity runs out, what damage can be caused, not only in the refrigerators, especially in the freezers and so on, what does it mean when we read in the media, what happens in the cities or landscapes, when the electricity system collapses, or who we were, as I said, in the industry, what was meant by the economic, financial for certain companies, if we went over the peaks or peaks, as we called then, what was the price of the kilowat clock, given the damage caused through the excess of certain quotas that we had stipulated, that there would be no electricity shortage or, as I said, even an electrical eclipse. In the opposition I have said, the alleged cause of this damage, if I repeat the words of the President of the Commission, which is around 14 billion, gives rise to certain thoughts to the ordinary citizen at this number. He also thinks that it took 11 months to complete the final report, even though the Commission has literally sat as many times as the report said, or has not waited for the last moment to take advantage of the option that triggered and led the electoral year also for any polling points. The objections state that the content of the report is inaccurate and tending. When we read the report and refer these objections to certain claims, we have - and this is desirable and important - a certain objective assessment of who is right or not to say who is more right or less right. Point 2 clearly states that the report does not reflect the views of all the members of the Commission in a coordinated manner, but that the Commission was at the time concluding, but that the vote, as stated, raises certain concerns. However, I think that a fellow Member who has participated in the commission will be able to say more about this matter. In point 3 of these objections, the injury is calculated in an unmistakable and incorrect manner. I said earlier that those who know something about the business know that electricity is not simply a fruit or some other product that can be sold seasonally, but that electricity and its sales are determined by a particular system. This system is applicable in all European countries and elsewhere in the world, as a certain price for electricity is not only generated by the manufacturer. We all know that the electricity produced from hydropower is the cheapest, on the other hand, that it is more expensive from thermal power plants, and the most expensive from nuclear power plants, because their decomposition needs to be calculated. And if I turn to the position of the President of the Commission, who said whether this was the place and only right measure to simply stop the supply of Croatian electricity, or whether it was a measure that caused more damage. We all know when we followed the media that the Croats were just, I'll say, paying their invoices handsomely many times with much delay, and to a large extent they remained in debt because they were calculating, the Slovenians would already be supplying energy, even if we owe them so much or so. That they were not willing to invest in modernisation, in that basic reconstruction, it is also quite clear. On the other hand, we know that they were forced to supply energy from elsewhere in a short period of time, and fortunately, they succeeded. If we continue to let go, the big question is what would happen when the life of the nuclear plant ended, how Slovenians would degrade it themselves with their own resources, so that they would not have such and other consequences. Unfortunately, we do not have enough time to disclose the remaining points of the indictment in one way or another. For, for an objective assessment, I repeat, it is necessary to hear not only the accusation, but also to listen to the defence, for everyone is justified to justify his conduct at a given time, at which these factors were set and sought the best solutions. Whether they were or not, it was another question, of course, but the charges made last by the President of the Commission were mainly against the then Minister Draganjo, and I think that this Commission probably forwarded its findings to him, and it would be appropriate that she also heard him as such. And if he did, his statements would be in the report as well. As she did not consider it necessary to provide a report by the Court of Auditors, which examined the matter and gave an appropriate report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u102	Thank you very much, colleague Kebrich. Now she has the word of her colleague Maja Zupan. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry to establish the liability of the responsible persons and holders of public powers with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity in 1998, 1999, 2000, and in the first half of 2001, confirms the suspicion that a large economic damage, calculated at 14 billion, was caused in the system of Slovenian electricity. The Commission of Inquiry, established in the National Assembly in July 2001, aimed in particular to establish: the actual state and responsibility of persons with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity during this period, to answer the question whether it was economically and politically appropriate to unilaterally suspend the supply of electricity from the Krka Hrvatska nuclear power plant on 30 July 1998, to determine the possible damage to the Slovenian side and to determine the conditions and reasons for the transit of Croatian electricity purchases via the Slovenian transmission network and to identify the background and reasons for the sale of the bulk of the surplus electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant via the private company Entrade. At 16 meetings from October 2001 until February 2004, 13 witnesses were interrogated, in a manner or otherwise linked to the sale and supply of electricity during that period. A number of different documents and documents relating to this area have been examined and the activities and developments reviewed in this regard at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of the Interior, at the public company Eles, the Krško nuclear power plant, the Energy Association at the Chamber of Commerce, in Sova and in the National Security Council. The findings of the report are clear. With good knowledge of the situation in our electricity system, Croatia has constantly sought to obtain electricity from the nuclear Krka cheap electricity. Although the power outage of Croats is intended to safeguard our economic interests in the field of nuclear technology conservation, the shut-off without an appropriate strategy and, in the face of many inappropriate measures and decisions, is reckless and harmful for the country. The calculation of the damage caused by the decommissioning and the resulting surpluses and the inability to sell properly in 1998, 1999 and 2000 amounts to, as was said, a good 14 billion Slovenian tolars. The government, however, speaks in its opinion, which we received just before the agenda for this point on the bench, about 21 billion tolars less costs. That's interesting. That's really interesting. The power outage to Croats from six years ago and the related events and damage of course requires the appropriate responsibility of the then holders of political functions and public powers. Slovenia could sell more electricity during the period from 30.7.1998 further favourably on the basis of annual contracts, for example, Italy, which is a large consumer and where it would be able to achieve more favourable prices. Furthermore, electricity routes to Austria and Croatia have not been used favourably, indicating that the current set of decommissioning measures has not been fully prepared. Eles sold surpluses on the daily market, where it reached a much lower price of electricity, although the applicable energy economy law and its implementing acts did not prohibit trade under long-term contracts in any way. It is also right to mention on this occasion the audit report of the Court of Auditors, which is also referred to as the main protagonists. It is clear that there is a difference between the first and the last report on Eles's trade in electricity after the crackdown of the Croatian nuclear power plant. Some of Eles’ analyses were summarised and some comparisons were made, and the Court of Auditors also noted that the transit routes across Slovenia to the Austrian Verbund were below the price to be calculated and that Eles had been most inefficient in buying and selling electricity at Entrade. Moreover, Entrade, who was the main actor in the purchase and sale of electricity surpluses, worked to the detriment of Eles. The report of the Parliamentary Investigative Commission to establish the responsibility of the responsible persons and public authorities for the purchase and sale of electricity, which resulted in economic damage in the system of the Slovenian electricity sector, contains all data on individual business events which, at the end of the phase, provide a complete and evidence-based answer to the questions raised. In our parliamentary group, in Novi Slovenija, we thank all members, and in particular the President of the Parliamentary Commission, on which the most difficult work has been done, that the Commission has prepared a report, which we fully accept and support the proposal of the Commission of Inquiry, for the State Assembly to adopt its decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u104	Thank you very much, colleague Majdi Zupan. Mr Malovr will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u105	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! I joined this investigative committee somehow in the middle of her work. I must say that the work of the Commission has been extremely difficult and also responsible, in particular the President, because of the sensitivity of the matter and also because of the high level of knowledge required in the field of energy. The decommissioning of the nuke from the Croatian electricity industry, due to the failure to pay electricity and the non-formation of the nuclear decommissioning fund adopted by the government to protect Slovenian interests, did not bring the desired objectives. Because the commission of inquiry found that the Croatian side was extremely skilled and pragmatic in dealing with nuclear power. During that period, there were enough surpluses of cheap electricity all over Europe. Croatians were not prepared to buy more expensive electricity from the nuclear power plant because it was cheaper enough on the market. It is understandable that by all means they tried to get cheap electricity from the Krška nuclear power plant. On the basis of the behaviour of the Croatian side, the Commission has assessed that they have been fully aware of the situation in our electricity system and that our diplomacy is even more vulnerable to solving bilateral issues. The Commission considered the closure as a legitimate measure, but only in terms of securing Slovenian economic interests in the field of nuclear technology conservation. Disengagement in mid-summer times when electricity is allowed and there is no electricity demand in Europe, with knowledge of all the negative consequences, with an inadequate strategy, with many senseless decisions and measures, was pointless, reckless and could also be said to be harmful to the country. This is precisely why we will support the decision under number 1 in the Slovenian People's Party. But we don't think it's all that black. And at this time, after the shutdown, Eles successfully repaired the two evaporators in the nuclear power plant, otherwise there could be a collapse of the nuclear power plant as well as the power economy. RTP Krško was also built to provide Posavje and Dolenjska, then the renovations of the Termoelectric Trbovlje, the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj and river power plants were carried out. When this happened, there was also the sale of surpluses to the Italians. It is a pity that, at that time, market prices and not in the so-called band require long-term contracts. We also note that the Court of Auditors has not found cited irregularities or injuries, but only these are hypothetical. We find in the Slovenian People's Party that the adoption of decisions could completely undermine the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia and also damage the good name of individuals. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also find that there are objections to weight. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party will not support all the conclusions of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u106	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Mr Kavčič, if I understand correctly, wishes to present the position of the LDS Group or Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u107	Your Honor! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we estimate that dealing with the problems of the Slovenian economy is thus inappropriate. Moreover, it is clear that the applicants for the extraordinary meeting are willing to sacrifice the real economic and social interests of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Sacrifices are allegedly good for their political interests. Regrets are worth the non-State-making attempts by the applicants to address alleged irregularities in a way that attempts to turn the entire national assembly into an investigative commission. See, even if they were reported irregularities, this way of dealing with them is unacceptable, and in international comparisons they are strange and to the detriment of the economic and political interests of Slovenia. It's like smashing an elephant in a china shop. More. Attempts to create a hysteria of wider dimensions may even negatively affect the processes of detecting, investigating and processing actual irregularities. Maybe that's one of the motives of the opposition. We must admit that even Slovenian society cannot be immune and is not immune to the problems of corruption, to the problems of clientelism. We can track these problems all over the world. But just with the most famous case, with Enron, who is the most corrupt giant who went bankrupt, the favourites of the Janša Human Resources Commission entered into contracts, and in doing so to underpin my claim at one of the previous meetings, the Bajuk government personnel committee is signing contracts with Enron, mag. Turkey appointed 20 September 2000 and the following day 21.9. was confirmed by the government of Mr Andrei Bajuk. Of course, it's true that there was no sign of Janš's personnel commission on any door. He was just cheering and dressing on this committee. Both the Enron affair in the US and the Parmalat affair in Italy will experience their judicial epilogue, but in any of these cases the issue will not be tried in the legislative branch of government in such a way as to compromise national interests and reputations or the economic and other interests of business operators. If we look at some of the claims specifically. The Commission of Inquiry argues that the suspension of electricity supplies to the Croatian electricity industry from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant was inconceivable and unthinkable and a detrimental measure for the country. The truth is the other way around. This measure was thoughtful and meaningful. It is only necessary to analyse the situation as it was in 1997. The economic plan of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was then adopted on a business committee composed of representatives of both co-owners. The coordination of the interests of these two owners has become increasingly difficult. The Croatian side, first of all, has increasingly made up for its obligations, secondly, opposed all major investments and thirdly, has put pressure on the reduction of objectiveised costs. Slovenia would easily find itself in a situation where, at the end of the operation of the Nuclear Power Plant, it should take care of decomposition itself and bear the costs of disposal of radioactive waste itself. And it was a hypnotic change. In fact, the Croatian electricity industry has settled its obligations normally for a longer period of time. In 1997, however, there was a sudden complete cessation of the settlement of obligations. Thus, the claims of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant quickly rose to 8 billion tolars on 30 July and already to 10 billion tolars, exceeding the total amount of the invoiced realization of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant in 1998. In addition, the Croatian side unilaterally decided that instead of the agreed price of 2.65 cents per kilo hour, which was at the time 4,51 tolars, only 2 cents was paid, it is 3.49 and actually paid even less than 50% of this agreed price, at the rate of 1.84 tolar. With such a liquidity failure, the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant has, of course, become compromised, and it has also become questionable for the direct safety of the operation of the nuclear facility. Well, and then this dilemma breaks supplies in the summer or winter. See, the closure in winter would cause such a fluctuation in the electricity system that it would probably break down, the power system of Slovenia. If there has already been a shut-off, technologically this was only made sense in the summer when consumption is minimal. And the shut-off was caused by the threat of nuclear safety, not by the use of excess electricity to make big profits; it may be to start in winter, but for a very short period of time. Well, and another specific matter, the calculation of alleged damage. The report is presented in a very misleading way. The damage was estimated to be 14.3 billion tolars, and Mr Kelemina came to it by multiplying the full price of the Krško nuclear power plant by the quantities produced from the mid-1998 period and multiplying the same amount by the average export price and defining the difference as significant economic damage. Kelemina did not take into account, however, that Slovenia was a net importer of electricity before the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and that the average selling price in Slovenia was about 3.5 times higher than the average export price. As a result, as many productions from the Krka nuclear power plant as possible were considered to be placed on the domestic market, thereby reducing the activation of more expensive thermal power plants. Well, and given this fact, it is very easy to prove that the electricity system had 21 billion less costs during this period. The Commission's calculation is based on the assumption that when Slovenia exports electricity from the Croatian part of the Krško nuclear power plant, it would not need any imports or additional domestic more expensive electricity production from other sources. But electricity is unfortunately a commodity we can't keep for now. The Italian situation is also clearly known throughout Europe. Italy is a net importer of electricity and is particularly expensive for electricity. So if you're a net importer, you automatically pay a higher price. So if we were to sell electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant, according to colleague Kelemina, we might have earned an additional 14 billion dollars, but at the same time we would have lost at least 21; this is damage. And to represent only one part, one side of the equation, is of course a simple demagogy. The figures I am talking about are also argued in the government's position on the report of the investigative commission you have on the bench. Well, and the last stronger finding that there was a ban on the sale of electricity surpluses. Trade is to take place in Elesa's subsidiary and has never been deprived of the right to carry out these activities, as stated by the Commission. What was that about? The Government, by means of a regulation on the implementation of the public service, the transmission of electricity and the public service, the management of the transmission network, has not prevented the immediate trade of Eles by means of this measure since it has established in the transitional provisions a 6-month transitional period for the establishment of a subsidiary which can deal with that activity, thus ensuring a separate accounting presentation of both activities. This, of course, is in line with the requirements of the European guidelines. So, this separation of business. We can conclude from these claims that if Eles' leadership so wishes, it is mag. Türka, after a truly transparent trade in electricity and the separation of activities in the spirit of European economic orientations in the electricity market, which have also become an obligation with the new directives of the European Union, trading under Article 6 could be carried out at all times in Elesa's subsidiary, Tergel. In particular, it is necessary to separate the two categories of business which the Commission has already dealt with together. One category is electricity trading or reselling. This is a commercial activity carried out by traders. The second category is more of a technical character, which is balancing production and consumption. This business is carried out by definition by electricity dispatchers. And, as I said, unfortunately, both activities have been mixed up in the report, despite the fact that these markets have been separated in Scandinavia since 1996 and that Slovenia has been following the Scandinavian pattern in this case. And, of course, the basis of this regime is the requirement for a separation between transfer and trading activities. Now, the alleged harmfulness of such a prohibition may be merely a thought because this thesis is based on claims that Eles could export in January 2001 the large surpluses that Slovenia had at that time if the government had not adopted this regulation in December 2000 and would not have prevented it. This is a complete non-reality based on statements made by former director Eles, Vitomir Türk. As early as 5 January 2001, Eles signed a contract on the sale of electricity signed by this Director, thereby putting thesis on a lie. In spite of the regulation, Eles was still able to sell surplus energy smoothly, but was no longer allowed to trade directly, it is said to conduct commercial reselling activities, which is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it said, ordered him to set up Tergel's subsidiary, which did not have those restrictions. Let me finish. The conclusions and findings of the Commission of Inquiry led by Branka Kelemina are biased and professionally unfounded. The report does not take into account the Court of Auditors’ audit report at all, but the Commission itself, on the basis of the incorrect findings, based on the wrong conclusions, also unwarrantedly proposed measures against individuals. Therefore, by the Commission, the proposed conclusions of the Member and Members of the Liberal Democracy will be rejected or recast further.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Kavčič, your statement has challenged Mr Janša, who would like a replica. Mr Janša, I will give you the replica after presenting the views of the groups of Members. Dear Mr Kavčič, I remind you that you have been disrespectfully expressing yourself on behalf of Mr Janša when you said that he was cheerful and dressed in the staff service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I ask that we avoid such statements. I invite Mr Leopold Grošl to present the position of the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u109	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by stressing that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will not support the final report of the Commission of Inquiry because it is unilaterally and politically biased. The Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers to purchase and sell electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage in the system of Slovenian electricity, was set up on 17 October 2001. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the members of the Commission adopted a evidentiary decision and established a method of carrying out the parliamentary investigation and established the necessary implementation of the evidence by examining the witnesses and looking into the documents to determine the actual situation. By 17 May 2002, the Commission of Inquiry met at 11 meetings and concluded the hearing of witnesses. Next, the 12th meeting was convened by the President of the Commission of Inquiry only on 24 January 2003, after a good eight-month standstill, stating that the Commission's call is of a consultative nature. Therefore, the members of the Commission of Inquiry were not aware of the interim activities of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Branka Kelemin, nor of the agreement that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances would consider the Court of Auditors' audit report on the operation of the public firm Elektro Slovenije in 1998/2001. We only learned this when Dr. Bajuk, President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, convened the 19th session, which included the examination of the above-mentioned audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the operation of the public enterprise Elektro Slovenije. At that time, we also followed up a letter from the President of the Commission of Inquiry inviting the Commission to do so. The Commission then examined the audit report of the Court of Auditors on the operations of Eles in 1998/2001. The purpose of this hearing was to enable the Commission to find that the audit report on Eles is controversial, since in its findings, this report did not contain what the President of the Commission would have wanted. Such behaviour was also reacted to by the then President of the Court of Auditors and by the Bayuk Commission, in which he wondered whether, in such a connection, the Court of Auditors was now in the investigation procedure before the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. It was based on the fact that questions were raised to the Court of Auditors concerning Eles or the audit report, which were not judged by the Court of Auditors at all, since they had an investigative character to say so. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors also responded to such questions and provided an additional explanation regarding the Eles audit report and also why Eles did not need to write a response report, due to some minor errors, and not to those which coincided with the wishes of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, who wanted to find out something that was not. In the audit of the public company Elektro or Eles Slovenije, there is nothing to suggest reckless business and damage, and the response report was not necessary as Dr Antončič, President of the Court of Auditors, replied that appropriate measures had been taken to remedy them for individual irregularities. After all of this and some of the letters that the Court of Auditors does not respond properly in this case, for example, a letter to the President of the National Assembly, then it has come to the conclusion that the material on the audit of Eles is more appropriate for the examination of the Commission of Inquiry than for the Commission of Budgetary Control and other public finances, and this has, in our opinion, been discontinued by the cooperation between the Commissions mentioned above. All of this happened during the interim period of eight months when the Commission of Inquiry did not meet at all, and then only considered the audit report favourable to Eles, and it is interesting that after all these events this audit report did not even get its place in the final report of the Commission of Inquiry. This alone indicates the objectivity and tendency of this material. In the description of the procedure under II. Point (a) of the Investigative Commission's report between the documents and the evidence does not provide an audit report on the operations of the public company Eles Ljubljana d.o.o. in 1998/2001 of 28.6.2002, although, as mentioned, the Commission of Inquiry considered this cited report on its 14 March 2003. The audit was carried out on a proposal from the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the purpose of the audit was to express an opinion on the correctness and prudence of the operation of Elektra or Eles in 1998-2001. In its report, the Commission of Inquiry did not use the findings of the expert body, which is the only competent and competent body to assess the usefulness and correctness of the auditor’s conduct, that is, Elektro or Eles Slovenija d.o.o., but accepted its conclusions on the basis of wrong assumptions and lazi opinions. This claim is based on a number of contentious claims in the Commission’s report and the relevant position of the Court of Auditors, which the Commission of Inquiry did not take into account. In the present report, the Commission of Inquiry is concerned with several contentious claims. Let us mention only some which have not been taken into account by the Commission of Inquiry. Firstly, it is not true that there were no planning documents in Eles’ electricity business, since the sixth-page audit report notes that the basis for Eles’ operations in the work relating to the purchasing power and transport of electricity in the transmission network were laid down in the planning and legal and other frameworks in the years 1998-2000. Secondly, it is not true, as the 19th - page report states, that it is a mag. Korošec gave the transport routes to the Austrians before 24 September 2000. The contract with Verbund was concluded on 11.11.1999. The truthfulness of this claim also arises from the Court of Auditors’ audit report on page 28. Thirdly, it is not true that Eles mainly traded with Switzerland, namely the company Intertrade, since the audit report shows on page 15, Table 11, that Eles sold electricity to 18 foreign customers during this period. Fourthly, it's not true that Eles is led by mags. Korosca did not achieve favourable business results, nor did he achieve positive business results when Dr. Banič was Director. Table 1 on page 5 of the audit report shows otherwise. Fifthly, it is not true what is found in the report in relation to the calculation of the damage caused. The calculation was made by the Commission itself, following a simplified procedure. The Commission calculated the alleged injury by finding that between 1998 and 2000 there were 4,000 gigawatt hours of surpluses sold after 2.62 SIT in the Slovenian electricity system. It is incomprehensible that the fictitious data have been used as the actual data are shown in the Court’s audit report, as shown in Table 3 on page 7. The calculation of the damage caused is therefore based on the invented quantities of gigawatt hours, from 1998 to 2000, which were not "favourable" [[Undernourished]] sold abroad, at a price of 5,3 SIT, but at a price of 2,62 SIT. The fact is, at this time, Eles purchased from the Krško nuclear power plant according to the electricity balance the total electricity produced at a price that was also determined by the assessed electricity balance. Thus, Krško nuclear power plant could not produce any additional quantities that would be too large in the system. It is true, however, that the Court of Auditors’ audit report in the final part considers the following: that the volume of operation or power, import and export of electricity, electricity trading and transmission of transport routes was in order; that Eles was operating in the years 1998 to 2001 to the extent defined in point 1 of this Chapter, the first indent, with the foreign in accordance with the rules; that, according to the Court of Auditors, Eles had been operating with foreign interest in the years 1998 to 2001, except in cases where it had miscalculated the compensation for HEP transits and in the calculation of Verbund's transit, where it did not fully respect the prices and accounting deadlines. These identified weaknesses were so insignificant that the Court of Auditors decided that the response report was not necessary at all. The report of the Commission of Inquiry also mentions on page 23 the events and activities of the Energy Association at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. According to our assessment, these documents do not have any specific powers, nor do they decide on or show any actual situation, which is also clear from the decisions of the Management Board. Therefore, this part of the statement is also in the report of the Commission of Inquiry without need, as it proves nothing. Before I conclude, I would like to say some more of my views, since I am a member of the investigative commission. In an interview, summarized by STA, Magu, Vecer, the President spoke about the so-called interim report of the investigative commission prior to the report and stated that it was directly established, I quote: "that the closure as such could only be justified for the purpose of securing the interests of nuclear technology, but that no other measure was taken in such a decision, namely the effective sale of electricity surpluses from the NEK, which resulted in a major economic damage to Slovenia, amounting to at least 14 billion tolars." He also expressed his hope, and I quote "that political officials and others will be held accountable, which have held important jobs in important areas of work, such as Eles, for their conduct, and be properly punished." At the time, the President said that there was still little confidential material, but he had already prejudged the findings of the report by his statements to the public, since the Commission of Inquiry had not yet examined it and confirmed it even less. Thus, the pre-emergency notification of judgments or decisions on guilt and injury is commercially incorrect and shows the tendency for political exploitation of the report. Let me also point out that the President of the Commission of Inquiry convened the Commission on 21 March 2003 with a hearing of two witnesses, and then the 16th meeting was convened only on 18 February 2004, after a good 11 months of failure by the Commission of Inquiry. The draft final report of the Commission was considered at this meeting. From the magnetogram of this meeting, it can be concluded that I have assessed the report to be inadequate, unreliable, opaque or that it should be fully redrafted. From the report, any average auditor could determine the actual situation of all the events of the treatment of activities in Elektra Slovenije from 1998 to 2000, which is not possible from the report submitted. I also have to mention the fact that, in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, I wanted to provide a separate opinion, but I had to look at certain documents later, and I was probably not provided with some MRIs of the hearings of witnesses due to "rememberability". I also could not verify my views on these facts in the parliamentary group, because I did not know what the final report would be in, because only some members of the Commission were involved in the design. However, I personally assess that there was no particular desire for the Commission to meet in the final report in its full composition. Let me finish. As I have already said, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the report of the Commission of Inquiry to establish the responsibility of responsible persons and holders of public powers to purchase and sell electricity, which allegedly caused damage to the system of Slovenian electricity, we will not support it. On incorrect findings, the Commission of Inquiry shall base its conclusions and propose measures against individuals. The calculation of the damage caused, under quotations, is based on a simple calculation which is wrong and unprofessional. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the report, as prepared by the members of the Commission of Inquiry themselves, of opposition types and which does not take into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, which is solely responsible for the professional audit of a public undertaking, is not at all appropriate for consideration in the National Assembly. It is more than obvious that the proposed conclusions, which are also unilateral, want to satisfy the opposition's options and the wishes of the government's total criticism, its procedures and ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Respectable government representatives who are not. Today, today, I'm sorry, I can't do anything else, the government has even generously given us its opinion on the audit report, which has been going on, and any work has already been done, and there will be no misunderstandings, colleagues and colleagues, you in the LDS and in the United List have been there. Three years. We were worth the government's reports today. Today. The report was given to the Commission, at least published in the Rapporteur on 13 April. Almost a month. First time. Another time. Three years of work, whatever it is, with your participation, is worth 10 minutes, 10 minutes. With all due respect to the President of the National Assembly, whom I personally believe he personally wanted and wanted and felt right to receive the President of the Commission of Inquiry for 20 minutes. It's like someone deserves a piece of bread, gets a piece of bread, and then they give him another piece of bread and be very grateful. Whatever work I've done, my well-respected colleague and colleague, I haven't been on this investigative committee myself. I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. I'm home alone from places where we fight for energy conservation. Whatever. Each and every one of them. A colleague who is ahead of me, whom I absolutely disagree with in a lot of ways, and this moment, what he said, is also from these places, and he also fought for energy. The Krško nuclear power plant is six times cheaper according to the government's pronunciation than the Trbovlje thermal power plant. And now, of course, it comes well, that they stopped it so that the thermoelectric Trbovlje, say, and Shoštanj, and many other works. But let's just leave it. That's right. We'll fight for ourselves. All together, as far as Satisfaction is concerned. Yesterday, we spoke to the Internal Policy Committee about the following point. I know that's not the point. But it's a comparison, and I'm allowed to. Colleagues from the Liberal Democracy that you were with, and the United List, you said how you hope to call one of the points of an extraordinary session, how you can make this up if we have investigative committees and why you didn't give the task, set up an investigative commission and find out, and I agree with my colleague Vukko, who says the principle of innocence until someone proves you're guilty. You said it yourself. Liberal democracy and the United List. Today you deny and spit over the work of the officially established investigative commission of which you were a member. That's the truth. I'm sorry, that's the truth. Now I will ask Mr Kelemino that I will not work - please Mr Kelemina, wait - so that I will not work. Is it true that you are not alone - I will wait for answers later - to invite some members from the United List and the Liberal Democracy to the hearings of the Commission of Inquiry? Is it true that you invented the damage of the 14 billion tolars that came about? I'm asking, I'm asking. I do, I'm very Look, I have data, too, a chronological review of events related to trading by Eles. [[...]] Don't think I'm just looking at a report from the opposition that the Slovenian National Party is supposed to belong to. I got him. I've got it, exactly the facts that Eles is referring to and talking about. I ask you this if it is true that the data are fabricated, if it is true that the Commission has not worked, if it is true that you have been expelling some members, then, on my behalf as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will not decide on the conclusions, Mr Kelemina, we will not. However, if it is true that all of them have had the opportunity to work officially for three years on an investigative committee and to give their opinions, assessments. And there's something else I'd like to ask you, please answer me. Is it true that some, as we have heard, were unable to present their opinions to you, the commission of inquiry? That's what I heard. It was heard that they could not present their opinions, assessments and defend themselves. I will ask you this honestly before this National Assembly, because the most embarrassing of all is that we have set up an investigative commission, that everyone has participated in it, and today we condemn it that it has done so and otherwise, that it has kept the information secret, that it has fabricated it, and that it has not taken into account everything that the Commission of Inquiry has the right to do. This is a disgrace to the investigative commission, to all of us. I could be her member, and I'd be ashamed to be accused of it. But that's how much we have to be honest with each other. As for the findings, the content, now more specifically, 14 Please? [[...]] An official investigative committee has been appointed. She was. And everything else goes with it. And today we deny it. We deny it. Mr Potč, I know this is not a debate cycle, Madam Vice-President will warn me, but also you, but today we deny the work of the investigative commission. I honestly asked the president if he really made it impossible for all the members. However, I think the members were represented from all political options. 14 billion is supposed to be damaged, not lost. That's too bad. Expression is very important, it is supposed to come about. If the information is not accurate, it is right to say, in truth, that it is not accurate, to be determined. Other institutions that exist for this could have found this a long time ago. Another time. I have heard that this is information - and I will tell it because I think it is right to say it - if I come to the public and even to the Croatian public, I will tell you this, and people from the profession have told me this, not to think that it is harmful for the Croatian public, because Croatia's debt to the Krška nuclear power plant is still very large, and they will say if you Slovenians can't agree on it and if you don't know what you've done, then we'll tell me that our debt is even distributed or not at all. I don't know who you're talking to. I've talked to people who just think - because it's right to think, like you, because everyone has the right to think, as the Liberal Democracy and the United List thinks, right, they have the right, but that's what they told me. This is no way to talk, ladies and gentlemen! We really can't talk like that, either it's real or it's not. And who's to blame? True - for sure - it is both one person and an x person, as is an ipsilon person, but if it is written on T or K, because it doesn't matter, you can be guilty; whoever works, is wrong, it is. And it is right that you sometimes say that even those who originate from us are opposition when they sin. That's right. But you cannot say that a person who has a six-month opportunity to work and sin is equal or more responsible and guilty than a person who has the right, opportunity and honesty to do what is right - many do what is right, many - the same responsibility in twelve years. Yeah, it's not working! It just doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen! We all make mistakes. And as we have already heard, God forbid that anyone thinks that we are all, them or ours, and that we are all bad or good now. That's not true. Many respectable colleagues among all the types of people who are in position, in contrast with us who are considered to be opposition, respect and appreciate your work. You're as wrong as I am. And if I think you've sinned, I'll tell you, but it's not about you now, it's about everyone else. Mr Türk may have made a mistake and worked for six months; others may have worked for twelve years. And we cannot now compare the same or even the greatest sins only to the one who works for six months. I've asked 14 billion questions. The question of renovation was explained to me - the question of the renovation of the Krka nuclear power plant at a time when our neighbours were not paying for their relations with the government of Slovenia and Croatia. We know that, too. But that's not the answer. I was told because I see that I'm wasting my time, that it's not about, as has been established, I'm only going to give up segments to ban the trade in electricity, but it's about banning the sale. That difference is clear to me, too, this one. I am no one, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, nor will I be able to read [[End warning sign]] - I will finish, Madam Vice-President - as long as the principle of innocence applies. However, the principle of innocence will be demonstrated according to the report of the relevant official bodies, by law of certain institutions. And if we set it up and if all the representatives were involved in it, the conclusions are what they are. Everyone has the right to disagree with them. But I'm surprised, according to the data I'm finishing up, that some of you aren't as strong as you are, you've been loudly disagreeing with the Commission's proposals as you are today. I don't think that's fair and fair. However, respected colleagues and colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u112	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u113	I'm finishing up, Madam Vice President. [[...]] Thank you very much for allowing me a few seconds of time. Let us be in the principle of our 12-hour session yesterday and your words on the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will make a procedural proposal in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission of Inquiry. In view of the fact that the report of the Commission of Inquiry is in the national assembly, it cannot be consulted outside the national assembly. This report is final in this respect. 24th Article says that the National Assembly itself can complete it or anything else, I will quote later. At this stage, however, the government’s or the government’s position is an attack on an investigative commission institute, which is a classic institution of European parliamentary democracy. And this national assembly cannot afford such an attitude and opinion to appear on the tables today, so it must be rejected and taken out of circulation. This is a violation of Article 22 and other classic principles of European democracy, that the Slovenian government takes the right in this way and discredits the National Assembly. When the Commission of Inquiry was working very conscientiously, it was adopted unanimously, without a vote against the report, no one gave a separate opinion which, by the way, article 22 allows because there were no arguments. And now the government is sending us the brains and trying to do so - of course I believe that there is 15 billion damage, an economic one that has been caused and all of this hurts, but it could undo the consequences in time, not today, when it is already in the procedure when there is a report to send us to the table. Please withdraw this position from circulation. This is against the rules of procedure of the Commission of Inquiry and must not take that form. They had the opportunity, through their Members, to influence - Members, like all, did not participate because they had no arguments. The report was adopted unanimously or without a vote against and I ask him to be treated as such. However, Members have the right and in accordance with Article 24 we may also require certain additions or anything. However, the government cannot afford - I ask that the legislature also clarify this position of the government to withdraw from circulation. It's an attack on our parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. You quoted Article 22. Of course, the procedure is fully governed by this Article. We'll do everything in accordance with Article 24, we're not violating anything. "The National Assembly may accept or reject the findings and assessments of the Commission of Inquiry when considering the report of the Commission of Inquiry, but may also require the completion of the parliamentary investigation procedure. The draft decisions contained in the report of the Commission of Inquiry may be adopted or rejected by the National Assembly and may also adopt different decisions." We're not doing anything wrong. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government may decide on the documents, that is your arbitrary explanation, Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u117	It is no longer possible to engage at this stage and it is necessary to reject this opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u118	Mr Jerovšek, I did not give you my word, you took it willingly, the procedural proposal was not in place and we have nothing to decide on. In this way, we continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Please, Mr Jerovšek, shut down because the time is running out for your Group of Members. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm very glad you're using the time of your task force. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm protesting why you're taking the time of a task force if there's been a procedural proposal. Why are you taking it? Please take 18 minutes as long as we have the right to debate. For 18 minutes, you've set us up for this debate, our parliamentary group, the biggest opposition party, and you're taking that away from us, with what right, tell us? This is an attack on the institution of parliament in the gravest system, which is possible at all. This is impossible and unacceptable. Okay, well, do this if you think that's how you're gonna convince someone else and not just me personally. Okay. Our Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group must first, of course, determine why disclosure, full disclosure, senselessness and the country of harmful business have taken place in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u120	I very much ask that you continue to present your views on the Group's position. There's silence in the hall. You're the only one yelling, Mr. Rupar, otherwise there's silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u121	You're doing this on purpose, you're saying this, on purpose, you want me not to be able to argue, and you just let the clock go on, or is that fair? [[...]] Is that fair? It's beautiful. A beautiful system, thank you so much for your kindness. You're continuing what you've cooked a long time ago. In fact, an extremely important question is why and how this disclosure of these irregularities of the Slovenian electricity system occurred. I assure you, no one would know today what was going on in the Slovenian electricity system if it were not for the short-term exchange of power in the summer of 2000. At that time, the Minister of Economy, Dr Jože Zagozhen, together with Mr Türk, who was working on Eles at the time, later became director of Eles, revealed and revealed to the public the inaccessible fortress of the Slovenian electricity industry. With the new business approach within a few months, Mr Türk and Mr Zagozhen from several years of planned billions of losses on Eles and the Slovenian electricity system managed to generate profits. Unfortunately, the new government has fallen too quickly to prove how effective and profitable it can be for Slovenia to trade electricity. And what follows is the conclusion from this conclusion that the necessary change of power is certainly on the move. In the old Yugoslavia, or the former Yugoslavia, the one we left behind, the system was a first-class taboo, a monopoly, from which the old party structure was powered and maintained the system, of course, only part. Tradition has moved on. In Slovenia alone, nothing has changed, except that the electricity system as a monopoly of state was in the hands of the same structures in the second disguise, served under another name existing authorities and served in the same way as in the previous system. And who's the lead actor and leader? One of the main actors and leader is certainly the president of the LDS Council, who held and held all the systems in his hands with his staff octopus. The witnesses do not admit this, but this is definitely true, for example, if it is, from the conversations I have detected, so informal, if, for example, a meeting of the Supervisory Board or another important meeting in electrical companies has been convened, it is necessary to call the Chief for urgent and important decisions. This was usually done by the director himself, and of course he strictly respected what the boss had ordered him to do regarding certain decisions. And then you have to wonder if you are aware of the loyalty and discipline of this clan. 100% obedience. If anyone gets out of the clan, they don't usually kill him, but there's nothing to be betrayed about, even though the job, at least it's suitable for him, is gone in the country. Is that the right thing to do? And then where did these 14 billion tolars, for which the Slovenian electricity industry was damaged? And if we move on to other documents now. I will be on what you have asked questions and some arguments because, on behalf of the Group of Members, I cannot discuss these issues and also your statements, I will try when I have the right to do so, but only to say that everything that Mr Barovic asked, I can prove and prove to him personally, because there will be no time here and it is a shame to spend it. But since I don't have a lot of time, let me just ask myself a few logical questions, and then you can answer it yourself, and let them all answer these questions together. Is electricity a market treasure? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Who's gonna stand up to this? I don't think so. Evidence that electricity is marketable, I think that's enough. Like market goods money, electricity is also a market commodity. That's proven. This has been proven yesterday, this has been proven today and this claim will continue to continue. Next question. So if it's market goods, it means it's possible to trade electricity. And any wise master in the world will first make sure that, of course, he trades for the benefit of his company and creates profit. Is it true? I think so. And what did our authority do? But our authority has done everything else, just not to trade electricity and to create profit and thus, of course, to create the prosperity of the Slovenian people, about whom you speak so much. The next question is extremely important, which no one wants to talk about. It's mostly nobody. Does Italy import electricity? Yeah. Who's gonna stand up to this? I don't think so. How much? Over 40,000 megawatt hours a year. Also 50 grand or more. There are data relevant, you can look for them. Just for comparison. Slovenia produces at about the annual level, let us now leave 500.000 gigawatt hours up or down, about 12,000 gigawatt hours of electricity. Italy imports 40,000 to 50. Thus, Italy exports, imports more than five times or five times the electricity produced by Slovenia at all. How long has Italy been importing electricity? More than 10 years. And it will be in the future, even though they have different policies in this area because they see how dependent they are on electricity, how expensive electricity is because they are net importers. They've been imported for over 10 years. Even before 1998. What is the price of electricity on the Italian market? I think it's an extremely important question. Tall. Two to three times higher than elsewhere in Europe. It's because they're deficient. How does Italy import electricity into Italy? I'm guessing not with the train. According to the pipelines, it imports energy into Italy. It's a very clear question. Does Slovenia have anything to do with Italy? There is. Who's opposed? No, no, no. And it has a connection to Italy via the power lines and it can move to Italy even more than, I think, over 1200 megawatts of power. 1200 megawatts. This is for two nuclear power plants. Of course, it's with all the reserves and so on. Or maybe even more. Which countries have exported electricity to Italy in ten years and today and will continue tomorrow and so on? France, Switzerland, Austria, countries bordering Italy. These countries are exporting. Of course, Slovenia did not do so in 1998 and before, although it had the opportunity. Slovenia could also trade electricity with Italy before 1998, as we were net electricity importers, because it was a deficient area because they needed electricity. If there were any cheap electricity on the European market, Slovenia, as the owner, could buy it and, of course, transport it through our own routes to Italy, not that we were just passing transport routes to the treasurer, and we virtually had nothing to do with it. And why, of course, did they export - all of these, France, Switzerland, Austria to Italy over 40,000 gigawatt hours of electricity at the annual level? Because of what I said earlier, the profits, the high profits. And what they did. They were actually trading, selling electricity. They bought it everywhere in Europe, wherever it was, including us, and in fact those small surpluses that we had on the daily market were bought and sold, sold, sold to Italy, if possible. And of course, now the question is: Did Slovenia export to Italy before 1998? No, it's not. Why not? Some reason why we were net importers, actually before the cut-off, we were net importers mostly. That's why we didn't export to Italy because we didn't want to trade because this particular effort is causing, certainly and also certain risks, because we preferred to allow or allow exports to Verbunda and other European companies to export through our transport routes, regardless of interconnection and all these international contracts, to allow others to export large profits through our transport routes to Italy for small money. So Italy was a bioin still a chicken that lays golden eggs. Everyone knew that in Europe, only Slovenia didn't know that. These are fundamental facts and now the fundamental question: Do Slovenian traders export to Italy today? Today? Yeah, of course he does. Holding the Slovenian Power Plants works with all means, regardless of the fact that they have a large electricity shortage, because we are giving half of the energy back to Croatia, to buy all the energy available on the European market with all the means available and to try to export it in as many quantities as possible to Italy and thereby make certain profits. Only in 2002, when Holding the Slovenian Power Plants, as much as it has exported energy or electricity in accordance with modern practice and business, created, of course, some other businesses, in one year more than 12.5 billion profits, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. All this information is available to you, respected colleagues and colleagues, all of it. And this is of great interest and look at how many traders today want to get rights so that they can export to the Italian market, because this is the only profitable. The only right thing to do and the only thing to do is considerate and useful. And if we were to do this right from the very beginning when we decided to take some measure when the government decided to suspend the supply of electricity to Croatia and we would immediately start exporting this electricity to Italy in the long term, which was not possible - no one could prove that this was not possible, this is a living truth, and we can prove this 1,000 times if it was necessary for us to actually during that period, in that two-year period, until Mr. Tüerk came to the lead of Eles and started with long-term contracts, the electricity sold to Italy, earned us fat money, which would still be right for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian electricity system in its entirety and for smart investments, which we will never again be able to make up for, given the missed opportunities. And that there was no or no electricity available, only one document I will present to you, an agreement at the Ministry of Economic Activity 4.9.2000, where all directors, a number of production directors were present, including NEK Director Stane Rozman, where they found: "The participants in the meeting note that the Slovenian electricity industry sold in 1999 abroad around 1,800 gigawatt hours of electricity at an average price of 2.62 SIT per kilowatt hour." The production price at the Krško nuclear power plant was about 6.1 tolar at the time. Can you imagine what a difference this is? What billions of losses we have made in this area! And you're talking about what terrible excess energy was in the European market at that time, and we didn't buy it and we didn't export it. Only fools do that and no one else does. In short, the evidence that we did not do what was right is sufficient, reasoned, clear. And all these unilateral measures that have taken place have been unjustifiable and harmful to Slovenia. Let me just introduce the following when you're saying that we're unilaterally displaying some of the facts, and we want to show them politically. Look at the interview with Ivan Athelski! Not because it's a positive interview, but I'm evaluating it as a neutral, as a patriot, as one who actually wants to do well with this Slovenia, so I'm treating it. And what did he say?He said that they were doing harm; that Vitoslav Türk was doing the right thing; that he actually provided certain data, Mr Atelšek; that some of them were doing for their personal benefit; that the Court's report was not correct and the whole type of charges or positive statements concerning Mr Zagozno and Mr Türk's business and serious criticism of what the previous authorities in the Slovenian electronic system had actually done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u122	Mr. Kelemina, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u123	Take a look at this, as well as Mr Athelski's testimony on our committee, and you will see how and what has actually been said. We couldn't cover everything in the report because it's unnecessary. We summarized what we had the best documents for, which is based on documents and arguments. Tell me which document I invented, which is listed in the report, is not true and is not credible!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u124	Mr. Kelemina, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u125	In short, all that has been said is fair, with the best intention of clarifying things and that what has happened in the previous system or previous period with the power outage to Croatia and with those surpluses that have occurred in our system, that this will never happen again in Slovenian politics in the Slovenian future. We owe it to the National Assembly, the government, the government, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u126	Mr. Kelemina, you've been running out of time for two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u127	We all have a duty to act in the interest and well-being of the people as a whole, but that was not the case at the time. [[...]] On the contrary, personal interests were first and then far behind the interests of the country as a whole. In short, I still have a lot of arguments to say about this, but unfortunately this is impossible because of the restrictions you have placed on us. This is absurd and I protest most decisively against such a way of dealing with such an important topic! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I myself am concerned that Members and Members of Parliament do not accuse themselves of being abusive. Mr Kelemina and several of his friends have repeatedly insulted me in this day and age to shorten the possible time that parliamentary groups have to work at the plenary session. You all know that's not the case, so I ask you to avoid such statements because you insult me with this. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will now move on to the debate of Members and Members on the final report - please, I will finish the sentence and then I will give you my word for a procedural proposal, Mr Tsukjati - on the final report and the proposed conclusions. Mr. Tuckati, procedural proposal. Here you go. Unfortunately, your parliamentary group is timeless and also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u129	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I declare obstruction of the Group of Members for further consideration of this point. May I explain this decision by the Rules of Procedure? First of all, I'm protesting that you're restricting time. We have announced a time for discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And they were announced in this debate: Pukšič, Petan, Kelemina, Jerovšek, and Tsukjat. You have denied us the right to a college, the right to further debate. Let me explain why it is actually a rude act to violate the rules of procedure. All minutes available for this item, for discussion in the National Assembly, are 190 minutes. The College, of course, which decides by a majority of votes and here the LDS Group leader, the Head of the United Nations Group and DeSUS, have decided that the LDS will have 90 minutes of 190 total minutes, but they have given us, you have given us 18 minutes. Gentlemen, if we, of course, would take this into account, then we'd be getting the impressions again that we're just talking about some insinuations and we're not proving them. However, since we cannot at the same time be silent and prove and prove ourselves to be involved in the debate, it makes no sense for us to continue this debate or we cannot continue. At the same time, it is also a problem of media, transmission, which probably does not fall under this point, because now very important things are going on probably, so considers RTV, namely TV sales, Travel to the end of the world, repetitions and Video satellites, repetition. Of course, what is happening here is not interesting for our voters and national interest is not what RTV would follow and so are you. That's why, gentlemen, we're leaving this hall at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u130	Thank you so much for being right. Of course, the following is to be explained. Emissary, despite LDS, says on the schedule, has 50 minutes. And Mr Cuckati and all those leaving this Chamber, at the conclusion of the College, it was possible to report a double time to two points and 65 minutes could be available in your parliamentary group. You yourself know why you chose not to report such a time. And the wrong thing is what's going on right now. However, we continue with the debate of MEPs and Members. To the word of Mr. Pohorc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I am one of the members of this Commission of Inquiry, and I have cooperated in accordance with my time available to me in view of all the duties I have in this National Assembly, and in view of all the other tasks that have also been under way at this time, and I have given priority to those which are states-based, which are essential for the State Assembly to adopt so far all the laws and acts necessary to harmonise our legislation with the EU. That's not how I got involved at the investigative committee's meetings. But when I had the chance, I did. After this initial part of this Commission, I have found that the issue is extremely difficult, that it is in fact able to be carried out by a highly professional commission, which would be impartial, from experts who are familiar with such systems and who could independently assess this. We were just trying as a commission in that direction, as the Rules of Procedure assumes it works. If, at the time of the problem with Croatia, this point of the agenda was in the national assembly or possibly in the referendum, I would probably say unanimously or with high support, turn off the electricity to the Croats and today there would be no questions about why we cut the power to the Croats. And when the event occurred, there were consequences, such as this or that, some people today estimate that they were fatal and wrong, others were, at least they thought it was the right thing to do. Since I do not have much time, I will devote my debate accordingly. When we heard all these witnesses and invited them, of course, I could not make such conclusions, after these statements. That's how they were written. Even the Commission, to which only members of the opposition were invited, was invited, which, of course, I object to the legitimacy, because only the Commission as a whole could complete the task with all those invited. The Commission, by opposition members of the Commission, is likely to have also ruled out such conclusions as they were in the end. Once the final draft of the report had been drawn up, it was, at least for me, a decisive time, that the presence of other authorities should have been ensured that laws for the National Assembly were being drawn up. So at the time when the majority of the opposition members were present at the meeting, of course, I was on the Committee on Finance. There is no excuse, but it is said that I was not present at this meeting at the time and did not participate in such proposals for conclusions. Of course, I don't agree with those conclusions. I believe that they are not justified and not proven, inconsistently, professionally designed, that they are harmful to the domestic public, that they may be even more harmful to future relations with neighbouring Croatia with the joint ownership of the Krška nuclear power plant and that they may have, if they were accepted, major long-term consequences for the state of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President and Madam President. I'd like to ask you two questions on a case-by-case basis, if you'll excuse me. I see that colleague Kelemin stayed in the hall because of the alleged obstruction of the Social Democratic Party, I ask whether he is here as a social democrat or president of the investigative commission? If you can answer that. Secondly, I would ask you whether it would not be appropriate, Madam President, that when any Member of this National Assembly intervenes in its procedural exercise in the competence of the regulation of individual media and here limits what is appropriate and inappropriate, what individual media can broadcast in their time available for the basic activity, when the National Assembly is doing so to warn it. Because when people look at these things, because some media outlets tolerate this, they have the impression that the entire national assembly is appalled at how the editors decided. Please, I would recommend, Madam President, that you protect the integrity of the National Assembly and that, when individual Members exceed their powers and do the obvious damage to this House, to this High Council, that you, however, protect the integrity of the National Assembly, if not, at least with a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Let me start at the back. Thank you for the warning in the last part, but Mr Tsukjat has stated so many inaccuracies that in my explanation I probably forgot to give this necessary warning, I agree with you. However, I think it is right that Mr Kelemin, as President of the Commission between us and in this capacity, is also performing here, and I am sure of that, and it would certainly not be right, because, as a proposaler, he will also come to the end to leave the meeting of the National Assembly. That is how Mr Kelemina is here as chairman of the Commission. Of course, on the proposal of this Commission, we are also discussing the point and please, if we can continue. Procedural - what, Mr. Kelemina? A suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would also ask you, Madam Vice-President, that, in accordance with what Mr Kacin has said to protect the integrity of the National Assembly, you actually protect it in this sense, that a reminder or criticism be given to the government at yesterday's press conference, because they so badly qualified an investigative committee, which is not worthy of self-government as a whole, and also extremely gravely violates and insults the investigative commission, its members, not only from the opposition, but also from the position and in fact the entire National Assembly is disqualifying. I think that it is also necessary to protect the identity of the national assembly in this way and to act effectively so that this will no longer happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I now invite you to the word of Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Elektro Slovenije - Eles is a limited liability company 100% owned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the government is also a congregation. Even after the disconnect of two 380 kilovolt cables or switches in Kršek on the route Krško-Tumbri, electricity continued to flow to Croatia. This was also undisputedly seen on a synoptic board in the RCV, the Republic’s Eles management centre. It is important that electricity is a bonded vessel principle because it runs where it is less. Therefore, the question continues to be whether the situation has not been predetermined in advance, since if they really wanted to achieve the full cost, the power cutout should take place in winter when there is more consumption and there is excess demand on the European market and the neighbours could not even help themselves with the accumulation lakes that are empty at that time. After all, they knew and were aware of the situation in the European market, as business through Laufenburg is constantly being monitored, where the European energy hub is. Therefore, hourly prices and other pricelists, including averages, could not be unknown to them. Moreover, chronologically, as regards JEK, it is necessary to realize that the route of foreign loans, namely Brant's and American loans, was financed mainly by mammals, which was back in 1974, and its 30-year exploitation, where the founders and far-off owners are important. Therefore, the price for the supplied, received electricity was always self-regulatoryly symbolic. The storage of waste and potential upgrades in the Republic of Croatia were also unregulated. That's because of the protests then they quit. The economic plan, GN 98, version 2, was adopted but was not supposed to be confirmed in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, although the scenarios in the versions were being replayed, as can be seen from the draft electricity balance sheets. In Eles, it was followed by a timetable — electricity after hours. At the time of the shutdown, Mr Banič was removed on a well-deserved leave. At that time, he temporarily took over one of the deputies, who later, as one of the prizes earned, was able to buy the car at a ridiculous price. It is therefore not surprising that the fictitious Croatian electricity could indeed import 150 megawatts from Austria and 50 megawatts from Italy, without knowing how long it took and how many hours it took. In addition, Croatian thermal power plants, including Plomin, are obsolete, ecologically problematic and economically non-economic. Therefore, the issue of damage to state property, economies and at least national interests is also the place to be. So it happened. The invoices are controversial, because it does not show the actual state - what they were counting on, in fact, on those sheets that they used to base their data on. You should answer that. It should be borne in mind that Eles is also supplied from the budget and that system reserves intended primarily for the expansion of the network of power lines and continuous supply can also be used as a cover for non-economic operations or even for reckless greed for extra profits. In doing so, we do not take into account the fact that Eles was also able to move costs from his majority-owned company Talum to households. Nevertheless, the increase in electricity is still carried out on a planned and flat-rate basis, without any real and actual justification. The Ministry of Justice has been carrying out an ideal, solidarity-based coverage of the matter all the time. Inside Eles there was also a struggle to download the market spot - between the operating sector and the commercial sector - because they somehow felt additional financial resources. The roles of companies Milan Vidmar and IBE are also intertwined with the replacements of Director Eles. It is also interesting how further information on the state was coming and how they decided on long-term contracts in the government, although they would have been easily implemented in 1998 if they really wanted to. The other contracts made by Eles were supposed to be long-term. There was, of course, a remaining battle for property, Slovenian property in Croatia. Weekends of the former elite [[Pioneer, Metallica, Ljubljana Bank]] which, of course, has any other impact on the actions that took place at the time in terms of disconnection, which in some way meant "status quo". Even if we look at the national energy plan, there is no appropriate policy here. These are some of the approximates that are far from appropriate. Thus, the nuclear power plant could not require a long-term business strategy, since the distribution or dispatch was regulated by Eles in one way or another, allegedly according to an optimal criterion, for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stood and determined all the time. The reasons for the decision at the 8th meeting of the Management Board of 1.2.2001 were also drawn to hair. Not only has the government allowed them to rehabilitate the occupied, imported investments by 1997, but they have been subsidized all the time. It is known that since 1996 there have been European guidelines and directives, which we also have translated. The free competition that should be established in Slovenia is still only winged. Eles and Borzen are in some ways the same, because people have only moved and controlled a false market mechanism. The difficult liquidity situation of the nuclear power plant is mainly due to Eles' failure to pay prior to disconnection. No one's talking about it. Why didn't Eles and the government tell them to do it in time? Indeed, the Energy Management Act of 1981 provided for as little import dependence as possible, which worked primarily in the Yugoslav system. In doing so, it is stressed that the transport routes in the Republic of Slovenia are far from optimal, including the alleged non-economic migration of Slovenia's power plant centre from Maribor to Ljubljana. The Energy Agency has not yet submitted the actual costs of transit, nor has the real costs of using the network. In short, it is a series of perfectly clear and transparent costs which are, of course, not taken into account in these procedures. You don't think it's possible to find out that Eles would charge four times the cost of transit with ease to Verbund and others if he wanted to. Even these activities of Kelag, the owner of which is also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are not fully cleared until today. Regulation also regulates the pursuit of a legal void, which is only stated in the law that it will be defined in detail by a regulation. The network, even in the old system, was built according to Western standards. Eles didn't have these limitations in this direction. After all, we could, at least in the evening, send electricity to overcrowding lakes, especially in Shivica - the final peak energy is much more expensive. In fact, the Commission has therefore found damage, but there is an entirely appropriate assumption that, due to individual documents, the lack of individual documents that were not accessible, they have also been destroyed in the meantime, and we will probably never really know. So it can only be guesses forward. The fundamental function of Eles is to ensure the smooth and quality supply of Slovenia with electricity. Eles connects and controls the entire Slovenian electricity system with its transmission network, which operates 15 hydropower plants, 3 coal power plants, two gas oil power plants and a nuclear power plant. This involves 2,700 megawatts of production capacity, with total annual production of 12,2 terawatt hours. During the period under review, Eles concluded a contract for the acquisition of power abroad to ensure the continued readiness of 80 megawatts in 1998 and 1999 with the Austrian operator EES, Österreichische Elektrizitswirtscharts, Verbund, from Vienna. 150 megawatts for 2000, of which 100 megawatts for Swiss electricity traders [[Entrade, AG, Baar]] , and 50 megawatts with Verbund and 250 megawatts for 2001, of which 150 megawatts with Entrade and 100 megawatts with the Italian operator EES, Gestore della Rette di Trassmisione Nazionale in Rome. For transits between 30.1. and 30.7.2000 Verbund paid its 12 billion 614 thousand Austrian shillings in two instalments. Verbund settled the first meal with three bills, which was final only 26.5.2000, because Eles did not give him the account number for the payment in time. Yes, of course, he couldn't, because he was correcting the "training order" - under the narrations. Eles and Verbund entered into a 2001 contract for transits to Italy with a price of 3.7 euros per megawatt hour. In the first half of the year, Eles made a transit from Austria to Italy - 102,866 megawatts of electricity at a cost of 3.7 euros per megawatt hour. This is worth EUR 381,000. In this case, Eles did not comply with the GRTN notice of 4,60 euros per megawatt hour. In addition, Eles charged Verbund the additional transport route to the Italian border at a lower tariff than agreed with the Italian electricity market regulator and thus achieved a lower output of EUR 93,000. Verbund was the only company to agree on the combination of electricity surpluses and transit. Eles signed a contract on electricity trade during the period during which trade was allowed. However, it carried out signed contracts even during the period when trade had already been prohibited. With regard to the spot market, all conversations of dispatchers are at their own discretion and also assessed in the IT sector, one floor from the RCV. Have these tapes been obtained? Where is the principle of transparency, which means a clear and transparent operation for all market participants? The principle of liquidity, which ensures a smooth operation without excessive fluctuations and excessive impacts of individuals on the market? The principle of security of business under the rules of operation on the electricity market and with financial guarantees placed by traders? A principle of fairness that speaks of non-discrimination among participants? The principle of efficiency based on an effective market system, which means a meeting of supply and demand at a balanced price, thus ensuring that the lowest price provider sells to the buyer who is willing to pay the highest in a balanced manner? This is the day-to-day electricity market, the priority dispatcher market and trade in bilateral contracts. In Europe, however, the most powerful EFET organisation is committed to trade in standardised contracts in the free market for energy and gas. The electricity sector is extremely important for the economy in each country. The impact is particularly evident in the part of the economy where electricity is the main cost for the company. Therefore, the State must provide conditions allowing for the continuous production and supply of electricity at as low cost as possible. This has recently resulted in a trend towards the opening of electricity markets in most countries that have not done so before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u138	Mr. Petty Officer, please, you've clearly seen that you're running out of time. Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u139	In view of the fact that I still have a few pages, I have actually made only an introduction and given that we have declared more time, we should provide us with significantly more time, as we proposed in the announcement of the Group of Members, in short, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We've been planning 40 minutes for this point. Obviously, you won't let me present this to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u141	And given that you thank me for my presentation and will not allow me to present the material to the end, our Group of Members will not participate because it cannot participate in the debate. He can't because you've disabled us, and that's why we're declaring obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u142	Thank you very much. And I'll tell you, if we were to announce at this point as you were allowed, we could have 40 minutes. Of course, I accept your business explanation that the New Slovenia Group will obstruct this item on the agenda. I'll take Mr. Janc's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I don't want to share science. It's not in my habit to share the teachings around others about how to work. But what the National Assembly is doing today is unacceptable to me. To discuss such an important subject in front of the entire neighboring public, I find this unacceptable. Even if the reasons for the hearing were much more justified than they initially pointed out, it would be appropriate to consider whether to consider this point on an open stage or whether it was the work of the parliamentary investigative committee which carried out this work in closed sessions. In fact, we are talking about a type of data that is also supposed to be classified, about the data of correspondence that flows between individual institutions: between the government, ministers, ministries, also among other authorities, and we are divulging in our entirety. I just don't think it's mature, and it's irresponsible of the National Assembly. As a member of the Commission of Inquiry, I wanted to participate constructively in the work of the Commission with a single desire to find out the facts which led to the establishment of the Parliamentary Commission at all. I also thoroughly accompanied the hearing of witnesses who, of course, tried to explain a story from their point of view. On the basis of the testimony, however, it is necessary to be aware that there are causes and consequences. I'd like to talk to you about the reasons first. That was something that was said today. Thus, the key or problem has begun to exert a heavy burden not only on NEK but also on interstate relations in the early 1990s by not paying for the supply of electricity to the Republic of Croatia, and this problem has seriously endangered the operation of the nuclear power plant. So it's about running business, and it's also about nuclear safety. These facts have been pointed out by the nuclear power plant and I have drawn attention to this fact several times at the meetings of the committees, in particular the Economic Committee. The unresolved status and property issues, the unresolved issues of nuclear waste and the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant were topics already actively addressed by the Minister of the Secretary of the Secretary-General and also by the Minister of Dragonja. Any agreement at the level of the secretaries or ministers has been "committed" at the level of the HEP, where they have interpreted their rules through their joint management of the nuclear power plant. Thus, virtually no proposed decisions and laws were respected. The economic plan setting out the cost price of electricity, the volume of investments in current and investment maintenance was not adopted. The Republic of Croatia did not respect the adopted law on the collection of funds for the decommissioning and final disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. Croatia also disagreed with the modernisation of the nuclear power plant. The blockade of the gyro of the nuclear account was virtually uninterrupted from 1993 until the shutdown. In such a confusing situation as the practical blocking of both the business committee's functioning, the safety of the nuclear facility has been compromised and Croatia's debt has exceeded 10 billion tolars, Slovenia has implemented two measures. The Government has adopted a regulation on the conversion of the nuclear power plant PO to the public company Nek d.o.o., by which the State temporarily supported the nuclear power plant and temporarily cut off the supply of electricity to a buyer who did not pay for it. Both measures implemented are assessed as necessary for the protection of Slovenian national interests and I am confident that the country has considered the country in a prudent and responsible manner at that time today. Now for the reasons to the consequences. In its report, the Commission of Inquiry wanted to summarize the implications of the findings in its 12 points, and I would like to comment only on some of them. First time. In point 1, the first conclusion of the Commission that the withdrawal was pointless, reckless and even harmful for the country simply does not hold a serious opinion. So, what I was talking about before, about the five-year closure of the bill's jury - they only deblocked at the payout - at 10 billion debt, with the unacceptable economic plan, in disregard of Slovenian legislation, with the threat of nuclear safety, Slovenia should continue to supply electricity, so, according to the Commission, it is still the view of the Commission. I think that in such situations something had to be done, and I think then Minister Dragonja and his team did it responsible. Another time. Around the calculation of the damage caused. I have also taken this issue seriously myself, but with all responsibility I claim that the calculation of possible damage cannot be done without doing so for every day practically individually, from hour to hour; and given that we know exactly the situation on the market. Only in this way could we find out about the real picture. However, what is stated in the report serves as a basis for a serious decision by the National Assembly. Third time. The finding in point 3 is, in my opinion, offensive to our country, because if such a finding is, if we accept such a finding, let us place ourselves among non-democratic states that are not worthy of comparison with the United States of America, which is what it says in point 3. The findings set out in points 2 and 3 do not correspond to the fact that the nukes and also Eles were, of course, doing better after the shut-off than in previous years. In fact, in 1997 the nuclear power plant had 2 billion 182 million losses, in 1998 5 billion 752 million, in 1999 623 million, in 2000 it had 868 million profits. If I can tell Eles. Eles made 200 million profits in 1997, in 1998 231 million, in 1999 216 billion and in 2000 2 billion 676. And that the nuke immediately after the reorganisation, which is immediately after 1 August 1998, carried out modernisation with its own resources. I also have serious and reasoned reservations on the type of other findings in the report. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The report of the Commission of Inquiry does not fully reflect the work of the Commission of Inquiry. The proposed findings and conclusions are not the result of the testimony of the witnesses and documents being heard. The conclusions also wish to involve the current Prime Minister uncritically, which clearly shows that this is a political manoeuvre of the authors of the report. I'm probably not lonely who strongly opposes the disqualification and labelling of individuals in this report without evidence. The Commission of Inquiry and the National Assembly must not allow this to happen. And one more thing. As President of the Commission, as you stated on the committee, if I quote you that you have received "a great deal of information about the fact that commissions have been paid and that billions of dollars have been paid and how this money has come to Slovenia from outside", the end of the quote, of course, if you have not done so immediately and report it to the law enforcement authorities and you have my absolute support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u144	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that I did not follow up on the work of the commission of inquiry. This was done by our colleague Leopold Grošelj that I read the report, but I do not imagine that I know the energy system so well enough that I know the trading system so well that I know the specific circumstances in which individual decisions have been made that I can judge, as Mr Kelemina did, what was right or wrong. That is why I will focus my part of the debate on those aspects of the work of the investigative commissions that I do know. These are legal and factual aspects. The parliamentary inquiry is a constitutional institution and I recall that we have seriously discussed it in drafting the constitution; we have discussed whether to launch a minority investigation or not, because it is one of the most exceptional arrangements in Europe, and we have agreed to introduce it. We discussed this a lot, even when we adopted laws and regulations. For both proposed a business commission, which I was the president of at the time, and also I had the honour, luck or luck, however, that I participated in two investigative commissions and I know from around the corner what work on the investigative committee might look like. I have a positive attitude towards the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, I hope to say, but I also have an extremely heavy responsibility for this institution, and I am extremely sorry that, in my opinion, many times in the National Assembly, the Presidents of the Commission do not use it in a way that would be in his honour, the Institute and in honor of the work of the National Assembly, but they use it for political accounting, which is not intended to do. We have another institute in our political system for this. I therefore believe and believe that the National Assembly must use it with due care and responsibility, that it must take full account of all the constitutional, legal and business provisions governing its powers in the functioning of this institution, and that, given the great power and authority it has in the application of this institution, it must, by the fact that it is a national assembly, that in this work it carries out many investigative actions, to identify, otherwise, only politically, but nevertheless, the guilt that this is generally done by people who do not know what they are doing, but are very confident about what they are doing and what is not that there is a great danger in the use of this institution. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the parliamentary investigation must not prejudice human rights and freedoms protected by procedural rules in other proceedings, both for witnesses, accused persons, experts and others involved in the proceedings. I stress these facts because I firmly believe that the National Assembly, through the use of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, cannot in any way restrict the rights that are recognised before the courts and other State authorities in the procedures for determining the personal responsibility of the affected. Therefore, the parliamentary investigation can only identify political responsibility, not criminal, civil, compensation and any other, and indirectly not. Not in this way that he realizes that someone should be responsible, but that he should be prosecuted before the prosecution, and so on, in my opinion. In order to be able to identify it only with regard to public officials, not anyone he chooses, and it is necessary to take very closely into account the situation of the investigator and the witness. And in my opinion, the investigation must be very careful and considerable whether someone who has heard him as a witness and his own statements can later take into account that I say to him whether it is to his detriment or not, because it is explicitly referred to in the law and the Rules of Procedure on parliamentary investigation, who may be designated as an investigator, who may be identified as being responsible for the subject and that someone who has been questioned as a witness cannot be taken into account in the procedure except that he is giving them a new opinion. There is, therefore, much, as we call it, a cauldron which ensures proper respect for human rights, which can or may not be taken into account in the law and the rules of procedure on parliamentary investigation. And in the end, I think it's very important. The question is whether an injured person who considers that the conduct of the parliamentary commission of inquiry has been affected by honour and a good name because he has been accused of something or by a procedure which has not been corrected, something which he considers not to be guilty, the right to protect his honour and good name, and also to compensation in this case - from a country caused by such an investigative commission. These are questions that you will be asked by everyone who knows everything and who always believes that the situation and integrity of the National Assembly is being violated, but you do not care for people, if they are in breach of their integrity and position, that either questions are invented or that we do not want to provide the necessary responsibilities and work in the National Assembly. But I'm afraid that's not a good thing, because even in the case of this institute, we have to be very responsible. These issues are particularly topical when we have an institution of minority investigation, because then we have a president who has to be one-third of those who have proposed an investigation and because the composition of the commission of inquiry is different, which is usually the case with the structure of the national assembly on the sent-off groups, in itself guarantees the majority. If it does not provide the majority, but with some skilful guidance - and some of this experience is - it is possible to always provide such an opinion as that of the majority who requested it or those 30 Members who requested it. Indeed, at the end of the day there is a national assembly which accepts or does not accept the report, it must not change it substantively because it has not participated in the procedure but can accept it or not. It's just that we're always at risk of being politically re-evaluated in the end, because we don't know enough what only the public monitoring it is, what's really been going on, what's really going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? In short, that is to say and will be a claim again if the National Assembly does not want to accept this report - I see how many colleagues are smiling at me because I know that you will say that we do not want to see responsibility, that we are afraid to see the responsibility that this National Assembly does not want to have authority, that it does not want to carry out its tasks, but it is the opposite. If this National Assembly wants authority, then it must think for every action it commits, and each of us, as a member of the coalition and the opposition, must ensure that this authority is created. Every staff member of this National Assembly from secretary-general down must also make sure that they are consistently carried out in all proceedings. And that's the only thing that can lead us to this responsibility. I, when I looked at the report of this Commission, among others, among the questions which, I say again, my colleague Mr Grošelj spoke, and about which I believe 100 percent of them, because I know that he kept me informed of them and of the Group of Members, because I know that he has warned about what will happen if we do not activate the members of the Commission of Inquiry in time. We've been taking some initiatives, and unfortunately they haven't been successful. And let us be clear: even if you say that some members of the commission of inquiry have some reason to have such a report today, I will say: yes, it is. Only among them is our colleague, Mr Grošelj, I hope to say with certainty. But what I mean is, in view of all of this, I have found at least this: that some documents, which should be very important, did not want to be evaluated in a high-quality commission of inquiry. Secondly, I found out from the message that no one was assigned to be a subject. They were all questioned as witnesses. And I found that the same witnesses who made the statements were ultimately regarded as potentially guilty in the investigative commission's report; not only those who performed public functions, but many others who did not perform public functions or at least did not, because the problem of what was public function remained unresolved under the parliamentary investigation law. You know that we opened it at the National Assembly when we identified the functioning of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on Friday, that we have also dealt with it, and we have never finished. The overall conclusion was that this had to be clarified and no later precision was available. In short, on the basis of this, I personally believe that there are many issues of compliance with the law and the rules of procedure, even in the case of this commission of inquiry, and I will not support the Commission's proposal for these reasons, as well as the substantive ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u146	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. First of all, allow me to believe that the majority of the colleges, according to my assessment, have certainly acted against the principles of the Rules of Procedure and also the principles of parliamentary investigations. In fact, when the final report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry is being considered, there should be absolutely no time limit. There should be no time limit, regardless of the circumstances, whether it is at an extraordinary meeting. I believe that this is certainly a precedent which, of course, most of you in college may have taken advantage of. But I'll start with another question. With another question, with what we have, of course, we have also received and what our colleague Jerovšek has already pointed out. We have, of course, received MEPs recently, both from various institutions, governments, as well as from the views of the parliamentary groups, even a number of critics on the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which, of course, identified suspicions, abuses of public powers in the case of the purchase and sale of electricity. Frankly, those who have comments and who are members of this parliamentary commission have not done their job. Why did you not draw up a separate opinion on this report? Simply, you would rather not have been at the meeting of the Commission when this report was of course adopted and, of course, because of their lack of commitment, have also helped to ensure that the report is not as it should have been equipped on your part. And I think there must be some self-criticism here if it is to approach it objectively. I myself was also a member of this Commission until 12 July 2002 and then I resigned as a member of this Commission, not because I did not agree with the work of this Commission, I must be honest to say that the President of the Commission acted very well here and I do not have any comments to guide him at the time when I also actively accompanied the work of this Commission. Of course, then, because of my busy schedule, I left this work to others, my colleague Malovre, who, of course, faithfully carried out this work on this investigative committee. The key issue of the whole investigation was probably two issues. Why did the wrong time approach the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant? This is probably more or less that that time was not the most favourable with any aspects as a way of solving problems which, of course, had to do with ownership, with all other issues concerning the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. And the second question is, when the wrong approach to, of course, electricity surpluses or how to operate and trade and properly control the country in such a way that, of course, individual abuses do not occur. This is probably a key issue related to the whole story that raises questions about the dilemma ahead of us: why not all the resources have been used. Indeed, it is unacceptable that in all this time, regardless of the interferences that so far have been achieved by Minister of Economy, Mr Draganje, until the beginning of 2000, there has been no initiative in the right way to operate electricity in the most efficient way from a national economic point of view. Then there may be various guesses, which, of course, are also the fruit of the work of the commission of inquiry, why suspicions, identifications and overstatements of public power to trade in electricity have occurred. Of course, there is another key issue in the whole story. Why did the shots on Eles' top change on the liquid tape, but only two shots. So, there was something big in the game where it was necessary explicitly also, in the case of Vitoslav Türk, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We will probably also say this at the next point why the last director of Telekom probably had to leave his post, despite all the fact that, of course, he was very successful, because of course, he was probably not careful enough for some who are obviously above him. But in the case of Vitoslav Türk, the government has allowed itself, and Eles has repeatedly violated the law and resolved that person. It's also a question of why. There was something big about this game that, of course, a person who has done a lot in this part, as far as the release of our electricity market, did not have to be in this game any further. This is also one of the key issues that arises in this situation. I believe that, nevertheless, the Commission of Inquiry has done its job, but I must say to those who have comments that, unfortunately, you have not done your work in this process in the same way as the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure itself do. Of course, if it goes beyond that, most will be able to do something else, but in this story I do not intend to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President and everyone who's in this room right now! Mr Rokavec has now given me one decisive basis for the debate I have prepared. It is true that there was something great in the game and it actually required the immediate replacement of Director Eles after the Bayuk government and, of course, the immediate replacement of Vitoslav Türk, after the elections and when certain matters were identified, which were explained in this sketch, about which I will say a few words. For the introduction, I would also like to say that, of course, what I have for the period that took place during the reign of Dr. Bayuk, who is unfortunately not here, and the Chief Staff of the then government, Mr Janša, who is unfortunately not here, would be good to listen to this, points me out that this report is actually not to blame, and I think that Mr Kelemina was properly guided, which is certainly also wise by those to whom the group belongs. We know that when someone wants to rob a smart bank in the middle of town, they yell "get a thief!" And then all the people run after that imaginary dad, and all the cops -- and the bank gets robbed peacefully. That's about how I think this thing works. And one more thing, I think, is that we actually named the committee in this national council after that famous Churchill aformism, that if you don't want to clear something up, then call the commission. But the story is this, for just happening first a little before this famous year 2000. We all know, and this report also proves, that the trade in electricity in the framework of a globalist game without borders can, on the one hand, be horribly passed on to naive destructive business, which was discovered in the wake of the bankruptcy of the energy giant from Texas, Ebron, in November 2001. The numbers discussed are so large that it seems incredible that such a wheel would ever be forgotten by miniature Slovenia, but unfortunately not so. This has been taken care of by the three already appointed, together with Dr Jožet Zagozno, Minister of Economy, also of course both, today also a Member of the National Assembly, Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk, who took their place in 2000. This trinity, together with Eles and Enron, raises such a reasonable suspicion that it is a sort of Bermuda triangle, as it is currently unknown to the Republic of Slovenia where more than 2,300 million or 2.3 billion dollars have gone missing in the form of commissions. Maybe it's here, Mr. Janc, for those commissions that were discussed a little earlier. That's when the mag came in. Vitoslav Türk, appointed by Jansev's Human Resources Commission of the Bajuk government in autumn 2000 as Director of Eles, following the early suspension of the former Director. The fact that it was a client relationship also proves the campaign that took place after his discharge and when an extraordinary meeting of the working body was requested to clarify why Vitoslav Türk had been suspended. During this period, the appointed Director of Eles, by concluding contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity with Enron or its subsidiaries, allegedly damaged or allegedly damaged Eles for a good EUR 2.3 billion, so a compensation action has also been brought against him; we are also aware of this. How things were going until Dr. Korošec was director of Eles and then. In the 1990s, Eles worked directly with customers and electricity sellers from European countries. The contracts for the following calendar year were usually negotiated from September onwards and are concluded in November or December. In autumn 2000, Eles negotiated with several potential electricity buyers in Italy.He offered 190 megawatts of available power, equivalent to a million 461 000 megawatt hours of electricity, which was available in excess of electricity from Slovenian power plants. A commercialist in the Eles trading sector agreed to sell 100 megawatts of power to BKV from Italy, with which he had already had a stable direct business. BKV immediately sent a draft contract. Four days later, the head of the trading sector, mag, telephoned BKV. Türk, who has been in Eles for a long time and has reported that Eles should not sell electricity directly, but only through an intermediary. As a reason, he cited Slovenian customs rules, which otherwise never prevented direct business. On Friday 15 September 2000, the Director of Eles, Mr Mag. Korošec, Eles’ legal department and the transmission network management sector, as well as Eles’ financial services, which, under the internal procedure in Eles, have to approve any such business, have warned mags. Türk that the broker of the sale to Italy or elsewhere is not needed. She's a mag in the next few days. Türk steps in the direction of SDS Minister Jožet Zagozno [[I guess that's when the deal with the computers that were paid and never delivered was running; we also know that.]] and informed him that Korošec was blocking the signature of the contract. On this basis, Dr. Zagozhen proposed the removal of the director of mags. Carnations and naming mags. Türka. This was the last government of Dr. Bajuk at the proposal of the Human Resources Commission, Janez Janša, held practically overnight, the first meeting of the Human Resources Commission or the government, specifically on Wednesday, 20th and Thursday, 21.9.2000. At one of the previous meetings of our Parliament, Mr Janša said in this regard that the Human Resources Commission of the Government cannot appoint anyone. Apparently, it was a hoax. For this proposal, which came out of this commission, was signed by the Prime Minister; even if it was known that it was a very important matter, the Prime Minister personally signed it, usually signed by the Prime Minister or the Chief of Staff, and perhaps Mr Bajuk did not know at that time what matter was at stake. Whatever the case, let them talk about it within the fairies' coalition, as they themselves are called. The new director of mag. After many complications and search for any financial or other trust of a valuable qualified intermediary, both conditions were apparently difficult to meet until Enron was discovered, 13. 12.2000 entered into a contract with IPG Enron from Italy, the Enrona subsidiary, to sell all 190 megawatts of available power. Enron sold 100 megawatts to BKV and the rest to two other final customers. The purchase was concluded at 39.66 euros per megawatt hour and Enron sold the same electricity to BKV at 44.4 euros per megawatt hour. The difference between one price and the other is 1,572 billion tolars, which therefore were collected without need by Mediator Enron. This electricity, this is also interesting, was able to obtain Slovenian power plants themselves. However, in order for the cynicism of an honest Slovenian Democrat to be full, it is mag. On the same day, Türk concluded a contract with the same Enron for the import and supply of electricity from Austria. He bought 430,000 megawatt hours of electricity at the price of 29.05 euros per megawatt hour, while the market price that day in Austria was 21.5 euros per megawatt hour, the difference was about 730 million dollars. As a result of the imports of this quantity of electricity, which is approximately the same as the total annual production of the thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje and imported mainly for January and February 2001, Eles had to stand as a thermoelectric power plant, Trbovlje and NEK could not place its surpluses on the profitable Italian market. So this story, and if anyone wants it, they can look at it, it's very simple. On the one hand, Enron’s electricity was sold to Italy and he sold to the final buyers, Enron bought 39.66 euros, sold 44.4 euros to the final buyer in Italy, and at the same time we bought from Enron, who bought 21.05 euros in Austria, which is Austrian Enron and Slovenia for 29.05 euros. In one case, it was 1,572 billion tolars of commission and in one case 729 million commissions, a total of 2.3 billion in one day. Both of them were intercessors, both called Enron. These intermediaries would not be necessary, and all this difference would, of course, go directly to Eles to understand each other. As a result of the severe economic damage of 11.1.2001, the Government suspended the mag. Türk as director and replaced him with a mag. To the crustaceans with the task of repairing the damage as much as possible. That's what happened. That I won't be too long. Mag. Korošec has been rehabilitating as much as possible, and has "split" 750,000 euros and has also achieved the elimination of some highly controversial and dangerous guarantees in banks. I will conclude that this is the end of the business path of an honest Slovenian Democrat, which was pursued by Jansev's staff kitchen and the Bajuk government. If we briefly summarize this story, it only threatens at the point of direct financial damage. Enron’s Italian representative paid almost a billion tolls more than he could sell directly on the market, while at the same time buying more than 700 million more electricity from Enron’s Austrian representative than was the market price in Austria at that time. If such business adventures were ever repeated, they could quickly endanger the functioning of the electricity system. Thank God that it was a relatively short period and that only one such big deal happened at that time. The country is also falling because of such things, and America too has staggered after the Enron system in America almost destroyed their market. I wonder why the Commission of Inquiry has not considered this work. If it has already addressed the responsibility of the political authorities in the electricity trade, why this segment of the operation of the political authority has been released in the previous period is completely lacking, it is nowhere. Perhaps they are, once again, even those billions of commissions that Janc spoke about and heard about on the investigative committee are not in the report. I hope that this commission will continue to work, that it will not conclude its work, that it will include this in its programme of action, so that Mr Bajuk, Mr Janša, may also be able to tell Mr Zagozhen, even to this very truth and without lying before the commission of inquiry, and then the story may get a completely different physionomy than it does today. I hope that this will happen and that we will be able to reach a conclusion in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u150	Thank you very much. You can, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to answer only a few things. I don't want to say now that he has no idea about these things and so on, but what he's read, someone who's prepared for him - I don't know anyway, because it doesn't matter, but look. Now, you tell me, from the summer of 1998, when the delivery was interrupted until Mr Türk arrived, the electricity was sold on average from 2.6, 3.2, 3.5 per kilohour and that was positive. When Mr. Türk arrived, he sold to anyone, however, for an eight-pound hour of electricity. But that's harmful, because someone else is now possible, I don't know, maybe they really earned something in the extra trade; because, of course, if you sell someone else, and they still need you, they can sell even better if you can't sell better, say, or if you weren't capable at some point - anyway. But it is definitely, what you are saying: and the fall of Enron, it is also perfectly normal, Enron has failed - Slovenia has not been harmed entirely by this. That's definitely it. And Mr Atelzek said in his report that Mr Türk has done well and is not guilty of anything, and this was also found by the court and so on. And as an independent expert, you might say, he commented on these things and he said: Mr Golob and Mr Banič and Korošec were doing bad and overpriced selling electricity. That's what they said. Please. This has been said and in fact Slovenia has not been harmed at all about Enron. There were first-class guarantees prepared by the Ljubljana Bank, not prepared by Mr Türk, etc. Extremely large, strong insurance was carried out in relation to this business and Slovenia received all paid tolar, despite the fall of Enron. [[..]] And all that you've been saying is, in fact, just an extract of one pamphlet from some data that can be accurate is not marked, but is not important for an investigative committee. All that matters to the Commission of Inquiry is why it was shut down and why, if it had already been carried out, and if it was considered necessary to shut down, why this electricity did not go where it could be sold with profit. Why didn't this happen? I told you earlier and presented whether it was possible to import into Italy. No one's treating this. Neither the Court of Auditors addressed the issue of electricity sales to the Italian market at one point. The Court of Auditors also did not consider the individual operations of an individual director, periods of an individual director, but rather as a whole. Like the whole thing, and it just gave an opinion. The Deputy Court of Auditors itself sent a letter to the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. We can find this letter, where she said, the Court of Auditors has not carried out a report in the sense of awaiting the commission of the Committee on the Economy, because this report or the revision of Eles has been ordered by the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, no one else. We've got all the paperwork. We can show it. And the Deputy has itself admitted that the Court of Auditors has not actually justified this investigation. We can find this if you want. And a whole series of other things that, as a commission, we felt that the Court of Auditors had in no way burdened anyone in its report or to investigate the actual causes, which is why we ordered this report or audit. We wanted it to be so that we could help ourselves. That's why we didn't include him in our report. And the fact that we discussed it at the committee was at one meeting and - is it necessary that we deal with such a report if there is no data, if there is no information that would be useful to the committee? The fundamental question is why we did not put too much electricity or at least some part of it on profitable markets after we shut down. Neither Mr Banič nor Mr Korošec can prove with any evidence of any contract - regardless of the fact that Mrs Petrinova ordered in February 2000 that they should enter into long-term contracts - either with a single contract or with an attempt at a contract. Nor can they prove that they tried to sell electricity on the Italian market at a better price. There aren't any of those documents! Please, all the documents that are available, respected members of the commission, I have repeatedly invited you to the committee, all the documents are in our investigative services, come look for documents, look for documents, if you have time, sit together, study together. I was mostly alone. Mostly alone; whoever asked me for information, got it, I was available, I wanted to do the right thing, totally apolitical. However, there is no other way to identify economic damage and the responsibility of the holders of powers, but there is no other way to do so. And the report is such as if it is burdensome - okay. Mr Potts, you can say whatever you want, and you can suggest that they lock me up and sue me, the chairman of the commission of inquiry, for writing such a report. You had a chance to cooperate, but you didn't. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, with all due respect to everyone present. In short, everything you've said is really one-sided. And the government's response to everyone else is unfair, unjust and untimely, so to speak. They had the opportunity, and the Witnesses had the opportunity to tell the truth, but they did not tell it. But I did not specifically investigate this because it is too demanding, in fact too demanding, that I, for every word that they have said and perhaps not tell the truth, hunt and call again for an investigation or hearing and so on. That's impossible. We took from the entire set what was credible, which is evident. Tell me one document that's not provable! It's all at your disposal. You can review everything. Then you say you didn't have access to the data, and so on, that's unjustifiable. And there was no commission on the committee. I just said, members who wanted to participate more properly in some procedure might have come to my office that we were having a thing or that I brought them up to date, if anyone was interested. And there was no commission on the committee. In short, you can do whatever you want. It is definitely about this money affair, and Mr. Rokavec made a good assessment, it was a big deal. It's about money, and there you are, logically, inexcusable, and you know where that money went. But because of me, what you, Mr Auschwitz, say - I absolutely agree if anyone has taken advantage of you, that you know that he has taken advantage of himself, that he must be punished immediately, with all means. But I did say I had information, but I didn't write it in the report. I didn't write that someone took advantage or that they were "falling" commissions. But it is definitely a practice in Slovenia, please, where you live! For each smallest transaction through state-owned enterprises, through state resources and even in the economy, commissions are divided. How do you not know that?Oh, my God! I haven't got anything yet, and I wouldn't take it either, because I'm unforgiving because I can't be bought. But that's what's going on. And where did that money go, you really have to ask yourself. In short, what you will do next will be discussed later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Replica, first Mr Ašić, then Mr Ptrč; both were appointed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u153	Thank you. So, Mr Kelemina has very broadly replicated, including what I have not talked about. He was talking about selling, even when Mr Banic was at the forefront of this event. However, it was explained today. At the time, electricity could not have signed long-term contracts, there was no external, now valid energy law, and the price of electricity on daily sales was very different according to quality. Today there has already been a speech that we cannot mix apples of the first, second, third category and still rotten and sell everything below the price of the first category. Mr Kelemina, this is a matter for sale and purchase of a first-class equivalent electricity, which has created 2.3 billion commissions alone, without those market-excusable differences in price that have replaced the costs of transporting electricity and other operating costs. A pure 2.3 billion net commission from an intermediary who was already known as the European and world's most corrupt company, Enron. And of course, if I don't know who cashed this commission, I know it was made, but I know it was made. There's something else I have to object to. Your commission had the task of examining and establishing the responsibility of the persons and public authorities with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the system of the Slovenian economy. You obviously skipped Dr. Bajuk's investment period and events at the time, and I resented that. No, but you said: we didn't care. Of course, it must have been of interest to see if during that time a story had occurred that had brought someone or more to 2.3 billion dollars in commissions because Enron had been involved twice in the business. You should be interested! You can't say you didn't care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Just to clarify. Mr Kelemina has made himself a candidate within 10 minutes, which he still considers to be clarifications to Members and Members not in the form of a replica. Replica, Mr. Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Because the meeting is public and because it does not show Mr Kelemini that he is not telling the truth, Mr Kelemina, I did not have the opportunity to participate in the commission and therefore did not take advantage of this possibility. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Grošelj was actively involved. Don't tell the truth! You said, "You could cooperate, but you didn't!" I couldn't. However, our Group of Members actively cooperated and reminded you of the things you do wrong in the Commission. Second. I didn't say it was an accident to lock you up or not. When I was talking about the commission of inquiry, I didn't mention your name at all, but let's say it again. From the experience of the work of the investigative commissions, of my own, and from the warnings that I have also received in connection with yours - and now I say - there is so much will and so much improperly prepared procedures that it would be good for you, not as President, but for the National Assembly to determine how to prepare and conduct procedures that we will not come into a situation that will be unpleasant for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting to note that the Commission met regularly until 17 May 2002, followed by a break that lasted until 24 January 2003, the reason, of course, was in the Court of Auditors' audit report on the conduct of the public enterprise Elektro Slovenije in 1998 - 2001, which was the reason for the "salt action" of the President of the Commission of Inquiry in agreement with the President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. However, the report was not favourable to those who wanted to take advantage of the report in order to demonstrate that mistakes were made in the business, for which only the management of the company could be held responsible, but in this connection also wider, until the current Prime Minister. And this report, as has already been heard from the presentation by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, has not been or has not been included in the report. It's perfectly clear! The Commission has been set up by the proposers to find faults and determine responsibility for them, not what it should actually do: to determine whether the errors have been made and whether political responsibility or responsibility of political officials needs to be identified. I still remember well the time when the disconnect actually happened. At the same time, opinions on this were shared, particularly with those who raised this action almost in the patriotic move, and others who were not convinced that it was the only right solution, particularly because of the uncertainty about the question of what the next scenario was. But that was the decision of those who had more information to support the seriousness of their actions. However, the statements made by the President of the Commission prior to the adoption of the provisional report at the meeting of the Commission convince me that this time it is only one more pre-election move. I am even more convinced of this by the renewal of the Commission's work from last year's to this year's, which, of course, means a deliberate delay in the electoral year. It is very wise in the public report to identify the diplomatic skills and pragmatism of the neighbouring country, and ours to report faults and errors. I also do not understand the precise conclusion that the measure, i.e. the suspension, was justified in securing our economic interests in the field of nuclear technology, while at the same time finding that it was extremely harmful to the State. If, on this basis, he tried to take on the role of those who had made the decision at the time, he would be facing an incredibly difficult decision; in any event, he would have been involved and praised in none. If we had decided or decided differently than they actually did, we would have threatened the production of electricity in a nuclear power plant and today we would be discussing their responsibilities, which would have caused long-term negative effects on the supply of electricity to our consumers. Indeed, it is true that a different way of selling excess electricity could make more money, but the contract is an act between the seller and the buyer where both the buyer and the seller have to agree with it. And now to assess how much it would be if it were and if it were, it's kind of said, "rated over the thumb." And "rated over the thumb" can't be the basis for determining responsibility. And since there is still some time left for our Group of Members, let me say this. The meeting was convened for Wednesday, 18.2.2004, at 9 a.m. The meeting, which was convened, was also attended by our fellow Member, but it was found that three members of the coalition, including a colleague from the Slovenian National Party, did not receive material for this meeting. The meeting was suspended, which continued on 3.3.2004, where my colleague Leopold Grošelj made quite a few comments on this report. By 25.3. you set time for a separate opinion. 31.3. was the meeting, you were four, Mr Leopold Grošelj was excused, this is shown by the magnetogram, and you found just that Leopold Grošelj was excused, there were no other excuses. I'm sure our colleagues will be joining us. At the same time, the Finance Board lasted. And if we wanted to conduct a very proper session of the Commission, even though it was final at the time, we could also ensure the participation of the other members of the Commission, but you did not. However, I do not agree with the argument that our member of the parliamentary group, Leopold Grošelj, was not actively involved in the preparation of the material. He actively participated, but given that the ratio of power was just as it was, his comments were not taken into account and that is why, today, our concerns, comments and also the protests about this report, which is prepared and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u158	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! We talked a lot today about the investigative commission. And when I listen to the debate of both the coalition and the opposition, I could say that after the independence of Slovenia, there was no pure parliamentary democracy that would not have been divided into coalitions or opposition in the commission of inquiry, or into this or another political option. I speak mainly from the eight-year mandate when I monitor the work of some investigative commissions, and if I compare these results, I can say this with certainty. As for the work of Mr Kelemina and this Commission of Inquiry, I must say that there has been a great deal of time since its establishment, and in some ways has been given the opportunity to all parliamentarians who are members of this Commission to actively and professionally approach the work of this Commission and give their views. It would be difficult now to define myself to the very content, to detail and precision, given that I was not a member of this committee. When you read the material, you can explain it to yourself. It would also be difficult to say today whether the power outage to Croatia at that time was the right way to say whether it was an economic or political decision. I am personally aware that at the time we were in some way in a political, silent conflict with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia regarding the payment of electricity from the Krka nuclear power plant. And even at a given point, a few years after the shutdown occurred, it is also difficult for a person to judge whether it would be more expensive to sell electricity at the same price or not. It is true, however, that I, my fellow Members, am disappointed in some of you, members of this commission, as well as individuals who were not members of the Commission. And I will say frankly and clearly that I have been very pleased to accompany and also to be a member of an investigative commission, for example, in the Vič-Holmec affair, where I can most certainly claim that the picture is exactly the same today as it was in that investigative commission and all the other commissions. On your part, if I may say so, there has never been a positive interest in some committee to come up with a fact that someone is guilty or someone is not guilty. I can honestly tell you that someone is guilty or not guilty, whether someone has abused the politicians' public authority or not. There was no interest. There has always been an attack on the left and right, on the coalition or the opposition in this national assembly. This is not a parliamentary job, I am primarily referring to the work of investigative commissions. In the investigative commissions, the colour of the parties and the option is not important at all. Facts, expertise and data are important. See, when your LDS member led an investigative committee, Rudy Mogue -- where did he have the most problems, who didn't get the data, who opposed him the most, who guessed him the most? The President of the State publicly urged him to step down from the commission of inquiry! He pushed Parliament into one corner, one side. He wanted to put it on the lowest point. That's not the way. He called him publicly, and they were both from the same party. I could pick up the phone, call him, say we have such different interests, Comrade Moze, please don't take this matter any further. But this is not parliamentary and democratic. Surely it is not, and in this respect I can honestly tell you, there has never been an interest in this national assembly in anyone, either on the left or on the right, to find fault with whether or not someone misused public authority. Never! But if you're going to analyze this, why didn't this happen, then you could continue where colleague Ashish ended up. Human resources, exactly human resources! A handful of people from one option, three or four people run all economic, public and political work in this country. And here's the problem, believe me. And when colleague Ashish and some of them mentioned - so I have to take a call - from Dr Zagožna, Bajuk and Bajuk's government in those six months and some personnel matters. It's true, it happened. I'll give you that. I'll give you that. However, the director of Telekom, who came to Telekom, did not replace any business director, who was from the left option or Director of Post. But you're in the moment, on the Sabbath, it happened, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Gez, you know why? Because of the lawsuit in the court of each other! But look, you put back in Maribor for the director of Postman who was apolitically inactive before the first appointment, and 14 days later he enters LDS and becomes president of LDS. This is normal for a democratic state. That doesn't bother me either. Why do we have double standards in this country? Either when it comes to a fellow Member or a Minister for the Director of a large company, he is capable, he has experience, he has everything, and he has not a single day of working in the economy. So we have double criteria. And in the boards of inquiry, respected colleagues, some of you act like lawyers, you get sketches, you get speeches written, you tell your transfer, tell Mr. Kelemini yours, in five minutes call the phone: listen, tell him that and that. That's not the way it works. That's not the way it's done on the investigative boards! And I would be happy if for once in this democracy at least one commission would do their job. And whoever was a member of the investigative commissions can confirm this that everyone acted as a lawyer of some political option, not as a representative of the Slovenian people or as a parliament in the interest of finding out whether someone misused public authority as a politician. Today we are not talking about a company director who does not have such a mandate. They know what investigative commissions are set up for. And colleague Potrce, you also said in your performance that it was work on such investigative committees for political accounting before the elections. Each account, every political conflict in this house, is a political account before the elections, whether it is one month, whether it is a year, or four years, one period. Unfortunately, usually investigative commissions close their work just before the elections or in the last few months, or they do not finish at all. Or he will complete his own report. And tell me, which investigative committee has had positive results so far. For eight years, I have been a Member, and I do not remember that any investigative committee could come to some visible results and that I could say that the parliamentary commission found out whether the conclusions would have been so adopted. No! No! Even when your man led an investigative committee, there was no interest in this country in getting some results! And we all know why there was no interest. And in all things, it's the exact same answer, it's a group of people in this country who master all the political, economic, economic, economic scene, and there are three or more people who also dictate the pace, the economic and political pace of one center, and the other in their own words, you or we abused for any other purpose, that each of them "streaked" a lawyer to someone and advocated for it. That's not how it works, believe me. And this is not appropriate or parliamentary democracy, which I think we already have a tradition and could learn from the way we work in the National Assembly that there is a need to act differently in these commissions than today's image. And to conclude, those who have helped to adopt the rules of procedure of the Anderliches in the National Assembly, today, are obstructing, could discuss substantively and thoroughly in such important matters as the work of the Commissions of Inquiry, which is the second part of the story. And let them take on their responsibility, because they are also willing to take on such rules of procedure as to limit time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would like to invite you - Mr. Potch's replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, believe me, when you look at the magnetogram, you'll find that I didn't mention the election. And I agree with you that what is being done is related to the elections. And I believe you can't think of anything else and that you think I said that. As for who, with whom, Mr Kangler, is connected for seven years, the Slovenian People's Party was a member of this government up to a month ago. As long as I've been with her for three years, and I'm not sorry that I've been good to her for three years, I know you could fight for your human resources interests. Okay, normally, and I don't mind, just don't tell me you're not in this country. You've been in the government for seven years. It's only now that you haven't been for one month, and it's all the others who are responsible for something and responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u162	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. While I would like to quickly assure my colleague Kangler that I am a member of an investigative commission, of one another, not of that, and that I have never acted as a lawyer of my political options, nor will I. And I think that's the basic problem, so I'm starting with that. We simply do not want to know what this Parliament should do, as at the next point we do not want to know and we do not want to know. We don't want to know what the investigative commission really should do. We think we've been given from God to be here and the prosecution and the court and the police and the investigation and I'm afraid someone's gonna want to have some more executional department at the end, where they'd just shoot for that wall back there. That's not working. And so with a little bit of, I'm going to say, amazement at the economic logic that I heard here today, and amazement at why we went to this Europe, and I'm shocked if we really went to such a Europe that doesn't understand that we could buy cheap electricity from Western Europe and sell it, if I understand correctly, to Italians for expensive money. I will never understand this economic logic within a Europe, because I firmly believe that these countries would do what they are doing, and they would not allow a drug dealer to appear in the middle of what is called Slovenia, which will buy, for example, in Germany, to sell dearly to Italians. But this is a matter of my perception of the economy, which is clearly at this stage wrong. As to why I will not be able to support the conclusions that have been submitted because I will not be able to support them. It's very simple because it's again one of the things where we don't know what we can do and what the commission of inquiry is supposed to do and here I deeply agree with the vast majority of this because my colleague Potč said and then warned. It's simple. It's a third decision. The National Assembly shall determine the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Energy: Dr Draganje Method, Dr. Tea Petrin for major economic damage and lost profits, which were generated after the closure, etc. The National Assembly, it is known what the mechanisms are to establish the Commission of Inquiry can provide a basis for interpretation, can provide a basis for determining responsibility, etc., but cannot be accepted today by the National Assembly, the 5th point cannot be adopted by the Council: "the government officials mentioned from then on have violated Article 113 concerning Article 104 of the RS Constitution since they did not act for the well-being of Slovenia as they were bound by an oath, etc. [[...]] Come on, let's be serious, especially. That can't be the conclusion, at least in my judgment, of the National Assembly. The commission can find out about the mistakes and it's okay to find them. He can figure out that some official wasn't doing what he was supposed to do. And then the procedure starts, and this is the thing that I'm talking about -- I don't know -- eight times or nine times, and I'm going to have to say a few more times, let everyone do their job in this country. Your police, your prosecutor's office, your commission of inquiry, your assembly of state, and everyone knows what he must do. Therefore, these conclusions cannot be accepted. For these reasons, they cannot be accepted. Not because I'd protect him, one or the other. Simply because the National Assembly, in my opinion, cannot take such decisions, because the conclusions are contrary to the rules of procedure which are very clear in Article 1 - and thus I will conclude - it says: "Parliamentary investigation into matters of public interest is carried out to determine and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision-making, etc.," - what I said earlier. We could do this, not what we did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u164	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u165	Your Honor! As I read the report and the objections and the protests in the report of the above-mentioned culprits, or whatever the case may be, convicts treated to the extent that they prove themselves: this is the fault, so he will answer. How, what, why, of course that's another question. And when I compared the report and these objections, I couldn't believe that these were the same events, the same things, the things that these people have witnessed on the investigative committee, the things about which the documents remain, there are different reports, after all, the government has responded to this report today. True, this report or this material cannot serve as material in the decision-making and adoption process, but it is illustrative enough to explain some of the things that are tending, capricious, or whatever you wish. Why so, why such an approach? Of course, it is not difficult for me, who has been monitoring the work in politics for some time, to answer. Therefore, to designate a group of people, some holders of political, public or economic functions or any function, to discredit them in order to show how a group of people does not carry out their functions in the interests of the State, at least in the interests of public functions, as well as in the interests of state-owned enterprises. That is why, of course, this proposal for conclusions is essential to reject and appeal to the Commission with a recommendation to show in the report what was really on the committee, what was in the documents, what was in the magnetograms, what was in the witnesses, etc., and to capture in this report what was here and what was here was just a clear reason, but no, Mr President, was released. [[..]] You said yourself that you didn't care, because these are just some things you don't have to talk about or they're better off not talking about. I think it will be necessary to say some things - not because of Mr Kangler's theatrical performance, with which we were together in the same committee of the Vice-Holmec in the previous term, where he really wanted some things from the point of view of his option, his view of the matter, his knowledge of it, he failed. Later it turned out that those claims and those structures, there were made, by some just by those who wanted an investigative commission who wanted through an investigative commission to present some things to the Slovenian public in their own way, with their truth in order to conceal certain facts, so that they could point to some who are bad guys and some are good. And this is about something like that. I hope that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and Rules of Procedure will be applied in the third reference of the National Assembly, however, in the way it is also subject to it. I therefore propose that we adopt and conclude this parliamentary inquiry next time on behalf of the three parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The proposer has one more minute. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I don't have time, I'll tell you the truth, on all the questions and all the dilemmas you've put here, I have at least 90% of the credible answers and I could present them if I had time. I don't have time. I'm just running out of time for you to limit me. But I'm just going to tell you something, and I'm going to prove that if we continue to discuss these things, I'm going to prove it to my fellow Members, and I'm going to prove it to you on the committee itself. Tell me how someone on this team who's been involved in this story can build, say, a house for about a million euros and drive with audio A6 and have money in it, and maybe 35 years old. How is that possible? Are you asking yourself where it came from? But you drag me around in newspapers, or you drag me through newspapers because of a shiny white Mercedes that was eight years old when I bought it when it was 350,000 miles [350,000 km] long and worth two million dollars! And that's why you're dragging me like I'm the richest guy in this country! Yes! [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u168	I ask you nicely for peace in the hall, and you, Mr. Kelemina, to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u169	In short, I'm sorry that I can't answer all your questions, but really, I have all the answers, and unfortunately I can't tell them, and these are the right answers, ones for which you don't have counter-arguments to answer me the other way around. I'm sorry. I hope I get a chance to say this somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate on the report and also on the proposals for conclusions. We have proposals for decisions proposed by the Commission under Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry [[conclusions from 1 to 9]] , and we have a proposal for a decision proposed by the three coalition members who say: "The National Assembly rejects the report because it notes that the Commission of Inquiry did not fully address the whole operation of the electricity system in Slovenia from mid-1998 to mid-2000, that it misinterpreted the regulation on economic public services, the transmission of the possibility of selling electricity surpluses and that it used completely incorrect data and assumptions in calculating the possible damage caused by trade, that it used only unilaterally those who were consistent with the views of the President and the members of the Commission who prepared and accepted the proposal for the final report and that it had doubtfully enforced the Institute of the Investigator, the witnesses in the work and the findings of the Commission. The National Assembly proposes to the Commission to correct its report on the basis of the comments made in the debate and written objections of the witnesses interviewed, and to include time into the report until the end of 2001 in particular, showing the results on the method of entering into business through intermediaries and the responsibility of the current RS government officials and the leadership of Eles." This conclusion of the three parliamentary groups has been reached on the bench today. We will decide first, because if this decision is adopted, the conclusions will remain irrelevant because the Commission will complete its report. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. There is no more debate, we have concluded the debate, just explanations of vote. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Madam Vice-President, so far there has been practice that we have always voted on its conclusions in the reports of the parliamentary investigative commission. Let us do the same today! However, if the conclusions are not adopted, of course, then because this is humiliating to the parliamentary investigative commission. You have simply passed the draft decisions proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. And now I understand you as if these conclusions are irrelevant and that we are going immediately to a conclusion in which, I would then explain my vote but I suggest we follow the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. And the practice of the last, more than 8 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. You're wrong. Proposals for conclusions contained in the report of the Commission of Inquiry, Article 24 of the Law on Parliamentary Inquiry; Rules of Procedure - Pardon - "proposals of decisions in the report of the Commission of Inquiry may be adopted or rejected by the National Assembly but may also adopt different decisions." And since the decision proposed by the three coalition groups asks the Commission to complete the report in parts and so on, so I read it, of course it does not make sense. Because we do not consider that the Commission has finished its work, Mr Podobnik. This is the decision proposed by the three groups of Members. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u173	Vice President, you're prejudging the decision. The only correct thing is that we are voting first on the draft decisions of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. That's the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u175	I myself would point out in a procedural manner that, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly cannot refuse the report. He can't refuse! You wrote, "In conclusion, the National Assembly completely rejects the report. It cannot be rejected1 The report was adopted by the Commission and the report is adopted. You can only do not accept the findings, do not take the conclusions and so on and load anything else, but you can also not load it because it is actually I am proposing the commission of inquiry with signatures, the 30th signatures was, personally myself. And now someone else can't tell me to expand [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u176	Mr. Kelemina, shorten it for me to read to you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u177	I know. I can't ask someone else to extend the work of the parliamentary investigation now, because it is over. We've finished our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u178	Don't expand. Well, read carefully, Mr. Kelemina, the decision to be proposed. This is not about extending the scope of the investigation. Read the conclusion carefully. One more time. I'll read you the 24th article. You're wrong. The National Assembly, Mr Kelemina, in its consideration, this is the first paragraph, the reports of the Commission of Inquiry may be accepted or rejected by the findings and assessments of the Commission of Inquiry. Also the findings of the report listed in your report. But I can't. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yes, please, come on! [[...]] However, it may also require the completion of the parliamentary investigation procedure. Mr Kelemina, I am reading this from the Rules of Procedure and I am not making this up because I have no right. Proposals for conclusions, and we go to conclusions, paragraph 2 of Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Kelemina, we're not going to argue here, and please stop yelling at me from the bench. [[...]] I won't. I'll explain, if you don't like anything, you're going to the business committee, because otherwise, as it says in the regulation, I can't interpret. No, I won't give you my word, Mr. Kelemina. Mr. Kelemina's procedural explanation. Let's hear it, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u179	Dear Vice President! Article 22 provides that the report shall contain a description of the proceedings, evidence and essential findings of the investigation, as well as proposals and conclusions. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Now, only Mr. Kelemina, I continue with these findings, we can refuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u181	You cannot modify the report containing a description of the process and the evidence. You can only draw conclusions, as stated in Article 24, and also in the conclusions. Only findings because the report has certain parts. And those parts that Article 24 says don't change, you can't change, please. You cannot modify the description of the proceedings and the evidence given in the document itself. You can't change the first part of the report, not at all. You can only change if you want conclusions and suggestions of conclusions and absolutely nothing else, please. If you work differently, you'll be in violation of the report because the investigative committee has accepted it. You will violate the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and I will not agree to this and I will complain and write about as long as you wish. This is so and nothing else, and I ask you, unless you know how to resolve this today, the question of breaking the point and the legislative and legal service finding out and examining this question whether or not it is so, but not to study the business commission. I'm saying it's the same and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I understand, Mr. Kelemina. You say, therefore, that the decision proposed by the three groups should be read as follows, in order to better understand that this is in accordance with Article 24, "The National Assembly fully rejects the findings and assessments contained in the report, because it notes" [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It says it at the end, if you read it correctly. Article 24 states: The National Assembly may, in its consideration of the report of the Commission of Inquiry, find that your report consists of findings and assessments. [[...]] The findings and assessments of the commission of inquiry shall be accepted or rejected and may also require the completion of the parliamentary investigation procedure. That's right. Proposers, do you agree to read: "The National Assembly fully rejects the findings and assessments of the report because it notes..." that this will be fully in line with Article 24. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u183	We propose to reject the full report, which contains conclusions, conclusions and I do not know what else and to supplement it as discussed here. So we don't change the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u184	Thank you very much. It is understood, respectable, that, of course, the application of Article 24 is to ensure that the findings and assessments of the Commission of Inquiry referred to in the report are accepted or rejected. Of course, the proposers propose to reject and we will vote on this decision first and then the conclusions proposed by the Commission and in the report will be irrelevant. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate the procedural decision that the National Assembly should first decide on the proposals for decisions proposed by the parliamentary investigative committee. This is my formal procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The National Assembly, don't you agree, don't you object? So we can first decide that there will be no unnecessary objections. We first decide on the draft decisions proposed by the Commission. They are listed in the report from 1 to 9. If they do not accept you, we will move to a vote on the draft decisions proposed by the three coalition groups. First of all, we are voting on the proposal for conclusions 1 to 9 proposed by the Commission. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 6 votes against 49. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the conclusions were not adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on a proposal for a coalition decision. An explanation of vote, Mr. Potsch, then Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Since the President's reasons for the content of the decision are not me, and I will allow myself to say, in explanation, that I support the proposal for substantive and formal reasons. With regard to formal reasons, the first and second paragraphs of Article 24 clearly need to be understood in such a way that the State assembly may adopt or reject a report and cannot amend it. Why? Because it is the Commission that has identified the facts and cannot find out otherwise. And the second paragraph should be understood so that the national assembly can adopt decisions, but it can also amend them or supplement them, because they are already decisions on the basis of a report which has been made. Formally, the decision is fully properly prepared, but I said substantively, I think that there are reasons for asking the Commission to sit back and complete the report if it is prepared as it is, but in substance, for the reasons that have been said, it is not possible to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u188	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. See, the report should also contain a description of the procedure. If anyone can contest the description of the procedure in this report and does not accept it, there is absurdity over absurdity. I assure you that you are in breach of the rules of procedure, because the description of the procedure contained in this report cannot be amended or rejected as incorrect, because it is completely impartial and completely acceptable for everyone. That's definitely it. The evidence contained in this document cannot be amended either. Mr. Potts said that under point 4, we have findings. The National Assembly of Conclusions may refuse, but cannot make any other observations. That's definitely it. Please respect paragraphs 22 and 24 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. Everything else you do will be in breach of the rules of procedure and I will of course appeal to all the institutions I have at my disposal. The Rules of Procedure on the Commission of Inquiry clearly state that the work described in the course of the procedure and also the evidence contained in the document itself cannot be dismissed. But as I said, you can reject the conclusion, you can't even propose to others, you can just throw them away, you can also reject the conclusions, and you can propose to others and nothing else. Anything you do differently will be in violation of the rules of procedure. Of course, I cannot take part in such a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Kelemina, the only violation that has taken place at this time was that I gave you my word for an explanation of vote because the official Slovenian Democratic Party Group is obstructing the meeting. Now you are acting as an MP, not as a proponent, when you have explained your vote. In full accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Commission, such a decision is now put to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 of us present. 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Your Honor! We usually have a 15-minute break at 6 p.m. I think it is right that we take it now and at 6 p.m. we begin by addressing the 3rd item of the agenda, this is by addressing the point of responsibility of state institutions and public function holders in connection with the operation of public enterprises in majority state ownership with the proposal for conclusions. So at 6 p.m., we continue our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u191	We're going to continue with 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - RESPONSIBILITY OF STATE INSTITUTIONS AND OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS IN RELATING TO THE BUSINESS OF PUBLIC BUSINESS IN MOST COUNTRY LASTS, WITH THE PROPOSALS OF DECISIONS A group of 25 Members and Members, with first-signed John Janša, presented the material for consideration. Comrade John Janša, you have the floor to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u192	Dear Mr. President! First of all, thank you for your words, although she is very modest, for all 25 applicants or three who are supposed to speak on behalf of the applicants have received a peeing 15 minutes for their explanation. In those 15 minutes, I can't even read all the things we were going to introduce today. In five minutes, I'm sorry, we can't even repeat 10% of this and argue what we already said, except to substantiate it further with the evidence you requested yesterday. Yesterday we heard an eight-hour session of the Internal Policy Committee that some of the things we mentioned there were not supported by evidence. Today we brought some evidence files, some of them here behind me, some of them on the bench, some in the office, and in those five minutes that I have available as one of the three editorials, I can't even list them. Just to introduce them. And then you will vote on the conclusion that nothing has been explained. So much for Parliamentary Democracy in Slovenia, introduced by Liberal Democracy in these days. In the first schedule of time we received, it was even written that the final word would give the proponents 10 minutes and the government 60 minutes. Then it was fixed. We have no objection to the fact that the government has 60 minutes because we have many questions for the government. However, we also want time for questions and for further arguments. And you didn't give us that time. There is a strong fear of this debate. Strong fear is the one that walks through Slovenia in these days before this subject is discussed in a way that the Slovenian public will hear it. So far, there have never been such a time limit. So far, there have never been such a time limit. When you called extraordinary meetings for deleted, you took hours and hours and explained to the Slovenian public. Members of the government coalition have convened three extraordinary meetings for the previously deleted. With signatures. And you took as much time as you thought you needed it. However, when it comes to doing something to ensure that economic operators in Slovenia are equal, that they are not privileged and that others are deprived, then there is no time for this debate. An international study was accidentally published yesterday, with the results of which more than figuratively substantiate our demand to discuss the subject with empirical data. The international survey, which was published yesterday, says: "On the international competitiveness scale, Slovenia slipped 10 cities in two years, landing 65th of 60 measured economic systems in countries and regions." In the last 60th place, Slovenia agreed when it was measured where the greatest complexity of political and business functions, where is the largest investigative or clienteleism. In the last place of 60 measured countries - an international survey, carried out in Switzerland, was also published yesterday in a media or newspaper with the smallest load in Slovenia, a daily with the smallest load. Even if someone is not convinced by our arguments, then I think that the data from the international research can convince him that customerism in this country is a major problem. I also point out that if our statements were really as unfounded as you said yesterday, then we would not be afraid of facing arguments and would not be able to limit the debate to us for 15 minutes to present evidence. However, since you do not have any arguments, there is a need to limit the debate. The same is happening today, for the first time in a long time and in contrast to the practice so far that national television does not broadcast extraordinary sessions. She can't stand an extraordinary session, but she's been playing TV at the time. If Slovenian national television thinks that TV is a key thing, then let it be financed by commercial ads and we will no longer pay these television bills along with electricity. Otherwise, it is no wonder that this happened, because this television is directed by one of Telekom's sponsors, Mr Kocijancič, who is also listed in this paper. However, we did not think that this would be the case at this point where it was specifically involved. Even yesterday on this same television by Mr Kocijancič, only the government party had the opportunity to explain its views after the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. And this is precisely the person who is responsible for the fact that corruption and clientism have grown in the last five years because the prosecution that led this person has done nothing at this time. And that's what I have to say. When we tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting, the Liberal Democracy convened a press conference and the President of the Council of Liberal Democracy threatened this press conference, not responding to a single statement, but said, "Whoever takes the sword will be killed by the sword." And so on and so forth. Two days after we applied for an extraordinary session, a courier came to me and told me that they would personally discredit me in any way possible. And it's already started. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, the president of this LDS committee said he was confident that those mentioned in this paper would find a way to give us a "tinte drink". Since the chairman of the committee personally knows many of those mentioned, he already knows what he is saying. Apparently, they have already agreed on this and it is not an accident to make a statement. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have made it completely impossible for the applicants to further argue the particulars in the material, completely. If you think this will solve the problem of corruption and clienteleism, you're wrong. In this way, you have only demonstrated visually that you are aware that this problem exists mainly in government types and that you are afraid to discuss it. That's all I can say. Since I am running out of time, I have to give Dr. Bajuku and a colleague from the Slovenian National Party a few minutes, because we have all three members on behalf of 25 Members available every few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u193	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just gonna talk from here, 'cause you only wrote me down for a few minutes anyway. I am formally protesting that this decision, which is not in line with the tradition of this National Assembly. Of the 40 extraordinary meetings held by this National Assembly, only two were proposed by the opposition. When we discussed the SIB Bank, we had the proponents enough time, at least as much as we wanted. However, the leadership of the National Assembly is conscious, and not just you, Mr President, the College and this majority, who decide everything in this National Assembly, want and demand that the opposition have no opportunity to come forward with its arguments and its facts on a day-to-day basis. But corruption and clientism are not words invented by the opposition. What is more, clientism and corruption than what has been clearly demonstrated in this international comparison, as already mentioned by my colleague Janez Janša. And this foundation that has its own seat in Switzerland does not receive information from the opposition. I will, in those minutes that you've given me, I'll also explain where that information came from. The fact is, they only confirm what birds know and sing in Slovenia. Only this National Assembly and this great coalition will blow their heads into the sand and expect the Slovenians to continue to bear what is happening in this country. In New Slovenia, we are not ready to tolerate this and we will still demand it. We will also demand this and we will make public what it will be possible that what you have now decided that we will not have the opportunity to speak, the possibility of a word in Parliament, and that is the lowest point in this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u195	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u196	Your Honors are here! I would first ask if the representatives of the Liberal [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u197	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u198	Democracy calms down. [[...]] Thank you. The purpose of the Slovenian National Party, which is one of the candidates for this extraordinary meeting and this point, was mainly to change the current functioning of the aid, state aid to public finances, to various undertakings, to those which are anywhere near government officials. I must also say that we did not believe in the National Party that we would run into such a scrupulous resistance by the LDS, the United List and DeSUS, and especially Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, to address the point today. We wanted to talk about money laundering, about the friendly spending of public finances and, of course, about the remaining things proposed in the material. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you are so sure that this does not exist in Slovenia, why don't you let us talk about it. It is precisely your way of working to prevent Members and Members of Parliament from proposing an extraordinary meeting to say anything substantive in some normal time that has led to reasonable suspicion becoming more than justifiable suspicion. And since you are aware that something can only be said in those fighting minutes that you have allowed us, you have, of course, banned the transmission of today's session for a great deal of ridicule to the rule of law, even to public television TV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u199	Peace in the hall. When the presentation is over, I'll say a few words about it. Now, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u200	Your reactions are predictable. Just as your suspicious friendship with capital is predictable, with the capital that, on the other hand, burdens all citizens and citizens. At the National Party we are, once again, very sorry that we will not be able to give these views what you, of course, wanted. Yesterday we were told that when you reached a time limit through college, at least within the national party up to almost 100%, you would try to do the same through national television. Both speakers told me that it has been normal, normal practice so far, that extraordinary meetings have been carried over, at least in part in public. Don't you think? Why are we hiding the data? Why are you hiding them, why are you preventing anything from being spoken in this national assembly? Now, and once again, I stress, the reactions of Members of the Liberal Democracy merely indicate once again the involvement of all of you in the entire development of the environment of the matter. 'Cause that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u201	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u202	Mr. President, I'm really asking you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u203	Comrade Peca, you are the only one who has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u204	I thank you again. Thank you. The extraordinary meeting, which was proposed, wanted to speak at least with the aim of the national party on the most important matters. In these matters, which this National Assembly meets almost every point of initiative and issue. Perhaps even you know that within this point, as a rule, opposition Members are always asking for an extended debate on corruption-related issues, and equally always, all of you in the United List, Liberal Democracy and DeSUS, which have more than the required majority, are being rejected. You have never allowed a debate to prove that it would allow citizens and citizens to see something that, of course, only we can see. Because you forbid them. And a nice example, once again, I'm going to go on national television, which, although it has special or public status and is therefore financed by a subscription to cover social events, is not here today. Even though we have spoken at several points today on very important matters such as income at the beginning, and as this point is now, you have not allowed this to happen. In my opinion, I sincerely hope that it will be evident, at least from today's debate, which will be substantive for everyone in the next part, in those minutes that you have given us that those who follow this work through the media will realize that the clients of the Liberal Democracy, especially those of the capital clients, are untouchable. And that if we wanted to at least now that we've entered the European Union in it, at least from the outside, you'd have to have some kind of respect for this tradition. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Give it up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u205	Thank you very much. There's only one question I'm going to touch. Not for the first time, I hope. The leadership of the national assembly shall not discuss with or negotiate with televisions when and how much they tolerate, unless this is determined by the contract we have concluded. You know that because we've been coordinating her in college for a while. Otherwise, neither I nor the Vice-President or the Vice-President shall communicate, at least as far as I know, with televisions related to broadcasts, especially for public television. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u206	In view of what you have just said, I must inform you that these contracts you have entered into are also in breach. This session is not tolerated by the cable or TV3 you have entered into a contract with. Those who prevented this were very effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u207	I don't know that. I even saw it on the screen a little earlier. I'm not informed, I'm not interested, and it's not really my job. Whether they communicate or not, as they themselves consider to be in accordance with their editorial policy that it is right. I will now give my word to the government's representative. Minister Gantar is with us and wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! By the way, the government also has less time to answer and for the discussion I have to point out that in the government we are surprised that such material, which has such a pompous title, does not at the same time bring any serious facts pointing to corruption, money laundering and clientism, but only hints, instigations and deinterpretations of some purely ordinary business events and government measures in the light of creation. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and unwarranted expectations. [[...]] Yesterday I pointed out that the applicants in drafting the document were very superficial and even the address points could not be properly written. They're talking about public companies. None of the companies, Telekom, Postal Slovenia, Mobile for at least three years or more has been a public company. In this sense, we could even say that we should reject the point because the content referred to in the document does not correspond to the title. I also have to add this, an additional problem that has the least ethical dimension, at least for us and at least for me. The document begins under point 1 by stating a letter, which the Director of Digitala, I will not mention, addressed to the Anti-Corruption Office, which he also sent to the US Embassy in Ljubljana. This letter is cited by the proponents as evidence of frequency corruption and as reasonable suspicion that the politicians of government parties have with their influence prevented the initiation of an independent investigation. In a letter to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor said that he expected, inter alia, to prevent any reproduction and distribution of this document in the National Assembly in order to prevent the reference, reference and mentioning of anything in this document into a debate in the National Assembly, and to prevent a discussion on the basis of this Charter, because it was "in our belief" - he said - "acquired unlawfully and we do not explicitly allow it". This, at least for me, and I also believe for the other government representatives, is a certain ethical problem. Discuss a document obtained unlawfully, which was not written for the purpose for which it was published in the document of the applicants of the extraordinary meeting. In addition, the author clearly opposes this debate in order to protect his own interests. It would therefore be correct for the authors to explain how they came to this document. In this regard, I suggested yesterday, on the Internal Policy Committee, that the authors build this - I am not disturbed by the discussion from the Chamber, so that there is no problem - that the material under point 1 should be withdrawn from the material and the author of the letter, as well as all those mentioned in the document, should be excused for the abuse they have committed. [[...]] Of course, this has not been done by the applicants. I will therefore be forced to deal with these statements from the letter, because they are clearly an example of inaccuracies, instigation and biased deinterpretations that I simply cannot get past them. Your Honor! For specific indications flying to Telekom Slovenije, Mobil d.d. and Mail Slovenia, the representatives of these companies responded in detail in writing. You have received documents and rejected malicious allegations. And, of course, given that they are economic societies, I do not intend to explain them, nor to comment in detail. As a representative of the government, however, I can argue that such malicious statements in this document that you have presented are detrimental to the business reputation of these companies, who must seek their own bread in a very difficult and increasingly open telecommunications market. This is especially true for mobile phones. And so is the other way around. If such accusations were true, I ask you how you could explain such a high level of telecommunications development in Slovenia on fixed telephony, on mobile telephony, on the Internet and elsewhere. How could we explain relatively low prices in fixed mobile phones, competition, the real fight that also happens through advertising media, with prices and the like, what you could monitor? I myself will not go down the path by which the proposers of this extraordinary session step, and I will begin to suspect who is behind them, with what interests the development of domestic companies in this area is prevented, who would like to buy cheap and who would sell cheap and who would possibly benefit from the weakness of Telekom Slovenije. With regard to Director Digital's remarks on the strange award of concessions, we explained this in detail yesterday on the Internal Policy Committee. I'd like to re-emphasize. In 1991 to 1995, Slovenia found itself as a lonely island without digital, mobile phones. Albania had it, everyone had it, except Slovenia. And we were arguing about whether it would be public service, how absurd that sounds today, or whether it would be, I don't know, what. On the basis of the legislation currently available, radio frequencies were allocated, starting with experimental operation. The new telecommunications law of 1977 opened the tendering regulation. This invitation to tender also took place. The company competed for these frequencies, lost these battles in competitions and even before the courts. And that's documented. Of course, everyone wants to attribute reasons for business failure to other circumstances, not to his own or his or her greater or better abilities and permeability and so on. Today, Slovenia, as I have already mentioned, is one of the most developed countries in the area with 80% of penetrations, GPRS services, Mobile, Edge, Simobili. Where would they be if they were still an economic public service?Oh, my God! I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that Slovenia also produces telecommunications equipment and belongs to between 10 and 15 countries in the world that are able to market and produce the most demanding telecommunications equipment, for example on the internet platform. It is export-intensive and represents competition for much larger global companies. As elsewhere in the world, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with an active policy of promoting technological development, which someone else can tell about, helps these companies to take part in their risk of developing new products with development incentives, technology networks, etc. After all, we expect Slovenian telecom operators to buy their equipment when it comes to as good or better products as they are on the world market and under affordable conditions, allowing them references that are needed on global markets. Do you think a Slovenian company can make it to the world market if it can't sell anything at home or if it can't come home? Your Honor! Let me conclude by noting in particular what is most disturbing in the document prepared by the proponents, not so much a single statement, they have not been cited today, whose malicious interpretation can and has been easily proven. In particular, if I may say, so to speak, the spirit of this document, the light, the light that this document brings, which is always expressing some belief that all corruption itself is, that all the ordinary business events documented, are verifiable, which have also been under revisions and can be legally reviewed and revised, and also carried out with responsibility if anything is wrong, that these corruption, or, if the authors so decide, is subject to ideological and political qualifications or disqualifications. In a way, this document, I have to say, reminds me of the leaded 1970s when the principle was that everyone who succeeds and exits must be cut down immediately and cut to the average and cut across all the ambitions he has. I was hoping those times wouldn't come back. The document that we have before us is a document of a negative campaign that is pre-electional, of course, based on the submenu, that it is necessary to blacken or overwhelm if you want, even if some mud falls on those who throw it. However, they believe that some mud will only be caught in style, as unharmed observers, of course, assess such discussions. If there's so much talk about it, something's gonna hold. Well, nothing's true. Such a negative campaign is a positive pre-election programme for the parties whose representatives signed this document. At the same time, I would like to say that it is clear that we are aware in the government that the threat of corruption and clientism is inherently present in every society, that, therefore, we need to have effective mechanisms that we have built in recent years to detect and prevent such actions. We have them in Slovenia and they also work. They may work slowly sometimes, but they work. Where such acts occur, they must be dealt with in appropriate investigative and judicial bodies, not with flat-rate charges for the purposes of an electoral campaign or a potential television broadcast. I would say that it is also necessary to have the same valet for everyone. Even when one of the members of the LDS is found in the investigation, this is evidence of corruption, and when one of the opposition leaders is present - they are also absent - this is evidence of the repression of the ruling party. That's not how it works. Whatever it is, wherever it comes from, if it has done something wrong, it must be treated equally. And I guarantee you that if it is someone who is of a kind of governmental kind, of a party that I belong to myself, I will do everything possible to deal with even more strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Peace in the hall! Five hours and 40 minutes are devoted to this discussion, so enough to express our views, but peace is needed. In no more than five minutes, the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee will further explain the Committee's report. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you have the floor, you and only you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Although only five minutes are available, I will still do what the Oskars usually do - I will thank the professional staff who stood by us yesterday and today and have made a great deal of effort to make this report come to pass. Otherwise, I can say that the committee considered this topic, this point at its 50th meeting yesterday - the meeting was quite a long one, i.e. all around 8 hours - that, in addition to the material offered by the proponents, we received further explanations and positions by Telekom, Mobitel's position, a letter from the President of the Council of Liberal Democracy, a letter from the Director of Digital and extensive Ultra material. In addition to the explanation, the representatives explained in more detail their reasons for the request for an extraordinary meeting, most of which, or most of all, highlighted in particular the inaction of the Supreme Public Prosecutor and other law enforcement authorities in relation to the application of the Anti-Corruption Office on the likelihood of corruption in the event of the operation of the Swedish mobile phone equipment manufacturer Ericsson, the presence of the ruling policy in the supervisory councils and the administrations of companies in majority state ownership, the illegal financing of election campaigns and certain candidates of government parties, the transfer of significant financial resources from companies in majority state ownership to some private companies and, at the end, announced that they would also send the material to the state prosecutor, who, of course, would be expected to respond quickly and appropriately to it. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the material submitted and in this context the proposed conclusions. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also gave oral explanations and pointed out that the material is not sufficiently well-formed, as the responsibility of the holders of public functions is determined in the procedures prescribed by the Constitution, laws and regulations of the National Assembly, which the consideration envisaged at this meeting of the National Assembly cannot be represented and the material is not so directed. It also noted that the National Assembly, in the exercise of its control function, can certainly assess the data and reports it receives from the authorities responsible, but this does not mean that it is carrying out an investigative function for which, of course, an investigative commission should be set up. With regard to the doubts regarding the use of Director Digital's letter, which some Members had pointed out, she replied that, given that it was not classified under business secrecy, there were no reasons, so there were no legal obstacles to its treatment or use. Representatives of the government, namely the Minister of Information Society, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of Economy, then gave their reasons and rejected the claims in the material. For example, he explained to the school that the funds for which the applicants claim to have just been given were obtained by various companies for scientific research and that academics were involved, so of course they have full confidence that the money was handled properly. The representative of the Ministry of Information Society, Minister Pavle Gantar, also stressed yesterday about the same as today, more precisely, so I will not quote him. The representative of the Ministry of Justice said that, with regard to the first proposed decision, a precise response to the possible involvement of Slovenian citizens or businesses in this corruption was still not possible, particularly because it was necessary to wait for the investigation to develop abroad. I'll cut it short. The Anti-Money Laundering Office and the Anti-Corruption Office also participated in the debate. There was a large debate followed, where some advocated that they were right and others we thought they were wrong. At the end of the day, we reached conclusions. In doing so, the majority relied mainly on the opinion that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the legislative and administrative provisions of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If I am allowed by the President, I am merely making the point that he cannot perform such a function as proposed by members of the opposition, so all their decisions have been rejected and the decisions taken in the report have been taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be given the floor to present their views. You have the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Don't be afraid that I'm going to read all this to you, because not only does my time not allow it, it would be without connection. However, in our parliamentary group, we have the principle of hearing both sides of the bell and of looking at both sides of the medal. That's why we tried, and we sacrificed a few night hours to read, not only what the undersigned Members put in for this item of the agenda, but we did our best to read the counsel of the suspects, not only the suspects, but the accused. Everyone has the right to make an objective assessment of a matter, to look at the first floor and then the second. The time is gold.The citizens tell us if you do not have a smarter job there than dealing with such things, as Janez said to Franz or Tončko or vice versa, then you are too glad for this activity and we pay for your openness. But we're not against getting rid of things, and even if it's corruption, even if it's taxpayers' money, so we don't think it's necessary to devote some time to it, but also to listen to those who have the ability to even watch TV broadcasts, some of them have already called me in this break when they hear we're on leave by 6:00, and they've told me their opinions, and I'm not going to explain them to you because you're going to get them on the ground on your own, which is soon when you show up among the voters who are going to bill you or you're going to pay them in the elections. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President, for those minutes. Yesterday, the Slovenian public was informed of the results of the IMD International Institute from Switzerland. That's worrying, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, that's not what Janek said or France said, that's not a waste of time. This is the image of Slovenia and our economy, as understood by foreign experts who are not associated with the opposition in this national assembly and in the Slovenian political space. Part of this report, which tells us, is very much related to the issues raised in this reference to this extraordinary meeting. Clientism and corruption are not words used only by the opposition in the National Assembly, in fact, our colleagues of Liberal Democracy will surely recall how your former party president, then the Prime Minister, has warned of the problems that may arise if there is continued proliferation of clientism and corruption. This was not invented 14 days ago by the opposition party in this House, but also by Mr President, now the current president of the country, for whom I confess to you that he is not in the opposition, I did not vote for him. As far as this institute is concerned. What does this report tell us? What's he talking about? What is the state of development of our entrepreneurship? Efficiency of entrepreneurship. And we actually just dropped 19 points, 19 positions. We were in the 32nd place two years ago, and now Slovenia is at 51 Otherwise, in terms of competitiveness only 10, the government's efficiency is only 5. Where exactly are the causes that cause such a severe fall? Above all, it is a fact that it has also been measured how much internal information is being traded. What's going on, we're in the last place. You know, there are 60 objects in this analysis. Of these, there are 51 countries and 9 regions. And among these 60 elements, Slovenia, as far as insider trading, was in 60th place. In 58th place, this is almost at the end of this table, but Slovenia found itself when they measured the effectiveness of control over corporate governance. You may remember the effectiveness of control, and this is what the opposition was talking about. The Slovenian Coalition pointed out this problem 18 months ago that control in companies, in large companies in Slovenia, where the country has a decisive stake, is even more rounded up to a small group of people, all of whom were appointed by political key and only respond to a certain interest. When we proposed in Slovenia's coalition, both New Slovenia and SDS, it is high time for the opposition to have the opportunity to propose its experts or other experts, the current Prime Minister with his left hand moved this away, if you do what you are doing. Well, respected members of the great coalition! Doesn't this Swiss Foundation research tell you anything? Of course not, it is the speech of the opposition without arguments, without the right basis. We're moving forward, cheerfully forward, a success story and a little bit more, add some music and you think it'll catch up. But then what's all this? This is an atmosphere that prevails in our economy and, of course, creates this image, as foreign experts perceive. However, trade in internal information is the basis for customerism and corruption. Yeah, what's more than that?Oh, my God! Control, I've talked about this before. We've proposed solutions, but you don't want to talk about it, because of course it makes no sense. Disobedience of the Public Procurement Act - how many times in this National Assembly we have been members of the opposition, and especially New Slovenia, warned that this is one of the biggest sources of corruption in Slovenia! And not only in my opinion, I'm sure at least some of you remember, but if you don't, you can go see that the nationalist had a show a few months ago in which we were discussing exactly public procurement. There I was the only representative of the opposition, as I recall, and she was the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar, when she replied to the leader's question, "How much do you think we could save if we respected the law?" Her score was somewhere between 10% and 20%. That's not my assessment, that's the assessment of your government's secretary of state, your coalition. But these are the facts, of which, as we have heard yesterday and today, I can already imagine what speeches and talks will be like later - that it is "Janezek said and Francisek listened". In this atmosphere and in these assessments, which have only confirmed our own assessments, Members, normally, in an open country, if it is, we receive certain letters, certain messages from citizens and citizens who turn to us. And I got a letter like that myself. Of course, you'll say, anonymous. Yes, of course, the anonymity, and how anonymous it was, because it still prevails in many circles a certain fear that you should not publicly expose yourself because the hands of the rulers are too long and too strong to hope. And in this letter I am a citizen or a citizen [[I can't tell you this. I think it's a citizen.]] draws attention to irregularities and complicated cases in relation to Ultra. Ultra d.o.o. But it's not a normal company. It's not like there's a meeting out there in some village. This is a company with its name and leadership, which is strongly linked to the political circles that are now in power in Slovenia. And what did I do?Yes, I did what was my duty - not to miss it, to throw it into a basket, as various officials did when they received warnings about corruption in Slovenia - I asked the government, the Prime Minister. And I wrote this on February 27th and I asked him, in accordance with the rules of procedure, short and concisely, as the Rules of Procedure say, I asked him the following question: "The Prime Minister asks whether in the last ten years there is any government department, the Ministry of Economy or any other government body, indirectly or directly dedicated to Ultra d.o.o. any means, whether reimbursable or non-reimbursable. If that happened, how long and when? I ask the Prime Minister whether any government authority, ministry or firm in the majority of the country has any contract with Ultra d.o.o. above the value of 105 million tolars. And if so, who, for what business, and for what sums, and how were these transactions obtained? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a written reply to the questions raised as soon as possible. With all due respect, Andrey Bajuk. In accordance with the rules of procedure, small with delay, but we will not resent that, the government replied. I received an answer, from which you have a copy, but the government's response is essentially inconsistent with itself, and expresses the flat-rate attitude of the Slovenian executive, to only one member of the opposition, but even to the national assembly. Such a document as I received in my hands should be rejected anywhere in the world, but here respected colleagues of the great coalition voted yesterday that everything was fine. That everything's fine. Of course it's okay. But what's the problem here? Yes, the problem is to start with some claims that are of course difficult to verify. In fact, we have information about this company over the last five years, and they send me something here, but not for the previous ones, because there are no recorded payments for this company before 1999. Well, that's gonna hurt someone else's head. We'll see if he's holding it or not. But let's get to the point. Then there is one description of this answer. However, this description sets out the figures: how many subsidies this company received over a five-year period would be for 106.2 million tolars. Then there's the explanation in the tables. And we're going through the tables. But when you count the tables, you only count 87 million tolars. Here's one difference of 20 million, in 106, 20%, that doesn't seem to bother anyone. If someone hasn't calculated it yet, they don't believe me, they can do it. But the inaccuracies. A great inaccuracies that show that what does it look like? [[...]] Yeah, it seems to me something's wrong, and you're okay. So, let's keep going cheerfully. Therefore, the third decision we have proposed has not been adopted. However, our law enforcement service has one very interesting opinion. With regard to the proposal for a decision under point 3, however, we note that it concerns the question of the Member State - yes, of course, it concerns the question of the Member State - and not the material to be dealt with. Congratulations. There aren't any. But they're listening. Congratulations. That's a saying, it's not related to the material, it's very interesting. How can our work end this way?Oh, my God! But that's what they did. If we go through this report, there are many interesting things, among other things I would like to answer, yes. In 1999 to 2000, the company received a certain amount of EUR 8.6 million from the Ministry of Science and Technology. There was a lot of talk in certain public presentations in the media about the approval of the Bajuk government. I'd like to say, yes, if you're looking at this table, it was done a month after the election, and November 10th, and November 3rd, when it was already known who will be the authority. Minister Marinchek has approved it. I'm sure everything was fine, but just so much about dates, you know, it'll be clearer who did something here. Then we have other very interesting things to do. In the text of the government and, you know, this report was adopted at a government meeting, it says that it was formally adopted at a government meeting. It states that, well, it will not be a mistake to obtain 30 million 123 thousand 501 and 51 SIT from the programme of measures for the development restructuring of the Sava region in 2001 and 2003. But there's only 7 million 480 in the table. This is not very clear, however, because after other messages, which I caught in the Slovenian media, which referred to the data of the Regional Development Centre from Zagorje, the company was expected to receive 22.6 million in 2003 alone. And this table shows 3.9. That's what you're saying. Something's obviously wrong. Then this is a matter of subsidies from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In 2001, and all of this in June 2001, aid was granted for this company, amounting to 7.4 million tolars. Interesting information. You know why it's interesting? Because when you go to see how much this company paid the profit tax that year, it's interesting. They paid, like, 5.4 million dollars a profit tax. But only the Ministry of Education gave them 7.4. It is also interesting that during this period of four years we have this information, in this table, where this company received a subsidy of 107 million SITs in eight years, forgive me, in eight years, because I do not have specific data now, they paid 67 million SITs a profit. And that's interesting in itself. This shows that it is not this particular case, but it points to another problem that is very present in our economy. The Slovenian State has these mechanisms of subsidies and various transfers and at the same time has strong taxes. So we give with one hand, and we take with the other. Some get more net, some are net contributors, and some are net debtors, but such a system is a problem of a systemic nature that Slovenia will still have to define. But this report, which is obviously a slump, according to the worst of its kind, because it should be accurate, was accepted by the government and sent to the National Assembly. Yesterday, we discussed this on the Internal Policy Committee, and most of them decided to come to a decision, to be reviewed and corrected, and who is responsible, nobody is disturbed. However, there is something else in this report that I have not been alerted to at all, not by such an anonymity or otherwise, and this is the indication that in 1999 this company received 150 million tolars of loans, loans from a Slovenian development company. I was a little surprised at the beginning, because in itself this seems to be somewhere, I would say, at least controversial, because it is a private company that is by nature not the subject of the operation of Slovenian development society. However, I have not yet been able to verify this; there is no explanation. But I've reviewed the Court of Auditors' report. I remembered that in this committee we received this report, it was very positive, like most of these reports, everything was fine, and I was looking for nothing to find this company. But I found two things that are very important. Firstly, in 1999 the SRD lent money to certain companies, either for TOM + 3 or for TOM + 6, which is a very low interest rate on the situation during that period. And that she only granted short-term loans for a little over 26 million. So if that's 150, it must be a long-term loan. Well, then I went to look where you could find something, and it's through AIPES. I went to see the balance sheets of this facility, this company. And, yes, of course, I found it. I went to see if they had this loan written down, and, yes, it is. In 1999, long-term financial liabilities, one billion. That's a little over 150 million -- one billion. Then I went to watch for years before, in 1998 on this item nothing. In 2000, next year, nothing. So something that happened is more than 150 -- it's a billion that wasn't there before, and now it is. Then she went somewhere. Then we checked where this was supposed to be, and we also found one particular feature that among the permanent assets, among the long-term financial investments, this billion is for one year. It's a really weird thing, because it's kind of unusual in itself. It is unusual that an undertaking that has around 200 million tolars of capital and total business income during that period will receive a gross return of 720 million tolars on a long-term loan of almost five times the value of capital. It's unusual in itself, and it's a little distracting. But these are things that require answers why, where, where, I can't find them, I can't see them, you see them here, they're not here. Then 150 billion, I don't know if it's from the same source or not, but it's very strange. But let me mention two other things that are very important. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr President, two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u215	Just think about it, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u216	Mr. Vice President, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u217	It's the rules of procedure. Try to shorten your thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u218	We have also proposed two conclusions, and now I am going on a different subject, which is Telekom's problem in both of its dimensions. Is it not normal for the National Assembly to ask the Court of Auditors to examine on its behalf and on behalf of all citizens and citizens whether this is correct or not? What, though, is wrong with the application of Article 20 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and it is required that the Court of Auditors examine this? The vast majority voted against. Mr. Secretary said they weren't even competent. Well, paragraph 5 of Article 20 of the Law on the Court of Auditors does not only allow this, it also requires this because it is an undertaking operating with public funds. And tell me what is wrong if we ask the government to explain to us why Telekom is not on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange of the Republic of Slovenia. Why does he always sell on a grey market that is not owned by the State? Why an intentional impossibility, if that's possible? Of course, Mr Minister has replied, this is linked to a possible privatisation strategy. Yes, you can. Tell us what your privatisation strategy is. What is very normal among people who have the right to ask, and some of the duty to answer, has been voted on. Who voted? Great Coalition: Liberal Democracy, United List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u219	Janez Podobnik is given the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! When we listened to the Minister, Dr Gantar, when he spoke on behalf of the government, he said two important sentences before the end, however. We expected him to start with them. Somehow, it was said that the government is aware of the danger or latent presence of corruption and clientism in Slovenia, but that it is necessary to treat them in the investigation and judicial bodies, the end of the quote after memory. In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that the National Assembly, Parliament is a place where corruption, customerism, money laundering and so on can and can be discussed. To that end, we are invited and bound by such valid documents from the Council of Europe, as well as some other international institutions, which say that it is the best way to create an open debate on corruption in countries, so that there is much talk in parliament. The international survey of the recognised company Gallup presented the results of the responses in many countries around the world to the question that was raised: What are the activities in your country where high public servants most often accept bribes? This information was then used by the UN when it adopted this corruption document. This is a world research that is highly eminent and true. I'm going to count five areas where the largest presence of bribes is. In the first place is the production of weapons and defence industries, in the second place, the area we talked about earlier, energy, production and trade in oil derivatives and electricity, the third area is industry and mining, we are closer, the fourth is health and social, interesting, and the fifth telecommunications, then there are others: civil aviation, banking, and agriculture are mentioned. Why is this mentioned? Because it was simply necessary to find that the applicants for this extraordinary meeting, when they cited examples of typical forms of corruption, simply came from a fact that is characteristic of all countries in transition and is unfortunately also characteristic of Slovenia. And here in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that there is no real path to any bumping under the carpet, but a frank, reasoned word, including controversy, not insult, discredit, strange and difficult words - Mr Gregor Golobič was able to be harmed, but this letter speaks more of him than of those who have said something bad about him. In this way, a policy that has experience that has endured many attacks on itself, on lower insinuations, on barbarism, on insinuation, on insinuation does not speak of great politics. This is, in our view, a completely wrong path. At least three typical sets in their material for today have been extremely detailed where corruption is suspected. The first area, the integration of political groups and state-owned monopolistic state-owned enterprises, of course. Shareholding companies owned by the State. The point is, they're monopolized. This is not only in Slovenia, it is happening all over the world and also in Slovenia Another area cited by the applicants is the abuse of State aid to obtain private benefits. No country, no policy before that is immune and at least Slovenian. At least it's Slovenian. The third area, which is very sensitive, is also for us the Slovenian People's Party, which has been a government party for a number of years, but we can honestly say here, is also discussed by the proponents, recruitment in supervisory councils and members of administrations in economic public companies, businesses, majority state ownership, public institutions, agencies and so on. We have to admit that's a real fact. Consequences of the Slovenian ownership model. We've accepted it. It's just the way it is. They have a great role to play here, KAD and SOD. It's a real fact. But in the framework of the current coalition agreement, we know exactly how decisions were made on the composition of the supervisory boards. This is a real fact and these things need to be discussed. And these issues are also cited by the applicants in their arguments. In our view, the debate on corruption is also important because young people especially listen to us. You know, sometimes people talk to students, and they look a little suspiciously into the future, and they say that they also feel that corruption has too much weight in Slovenia, that it simply undermines them and that it has a negative impact on their creativity. People are of the opinion that some vital segments of Slovenian society are simply affected by the elements of corruption. This is where healthy entrepreneurship suffers most, and entrepreneurship suffers the most. Therefore, this debate is important and it is also important what we will adopt. In our view, we simply need to show political courage and decide that the competent authorities should examine all possible doubts and inform us. If we do this, we will honour our mission as Members. How do people react? When they are simply the fact that some vital segments in Slovenian society work in a way called customerism or corruption or lose motivation or, worse still, they adapt and they also think and start to do so. This is, in our view, even more dangerous. That is why this decision, which is unfortunate that this debate has been limited, is also completely wrong at the symbolic level. It is corruption that must not be limited to debate, and many others could not. Because also the interpretation between people will be wrong, at least among those who feel hurt here, and they will say, even in Parliament, this should not be fully discussed until the end. For if there is no time for dialogue with the government, where should we ask this question? As I have already said, in our view, it would be a logical conclusion for the prosecution and other competent institutions to declare the suspicions of corruption described in these economic and political ties. This would, in our view, be the best decision. Here I would also like to comment on the fact expressed several times or the assessment that this point was wrongly prepared. But all three conclusions are classic conclusions that the National Assembly is responsible for. By 5 June at the latest, the Attorney General's Office should report to the National Assembly through the Government in the findings on the investigation of suspected corruption in the case of Mobile Space Ericsson. It's a classic decision of the National Assembly. And this is not the competence of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Only if, on the basis of such a report, one of the public officials may have misused his or her powers would there be elements to the proposal for a parliamentary investigative commission. The same applies to Decision No 2 and Decision No 3 is only the result of the answer to the question of the Member of the European Parliament, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. When we were preparing for this meeting, we were studying today the report of the working body led by colleague Lavrinc. I've also looked at the transcript, we've got about 30 pages, I think the stenogram is not complete yet, the meeting was very turbulent, the president is leading this session with some of his own competence, I haven't gotten to the ink drink yet, but in some ways he was in such a way that in some European circumstances he would never be able to lead such a committee. In such an insulting way, such meetings are not usually conducted. However, we also have here a report from the parent working body and allow me to briefly comment on some of the findings on behalf of the delegation. We believe that the applicants have done the right thing to send the material to the State Prosecutor's Office, from which they expect it to respond quickly and appropriately. Most likely, that is my assumption, they did so when they found that the conclusions proposed would not be adopted in principle and that, formally, we would not require any material from the State Prosecutor's Office at all as a national assembly. Here we have also observed the position of the representative of the Ministry of Information Society, that is, the government which, today, has reiterated this, Dr Gantar believes that citing Director Digital's letter as evidence of corruption could be a formal and ethical problem. If we have correctly understood the material we have, of course, the proponents did not distribute this letter and part of the content of this letter was an integral part of the document of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption. This was not the case for any of the candidates to distribute the letter. That's how we understood, but the minister was understood differently today. Then we would like to comment in particular on this disagreement with the Committee's proposed conclusions, particularly the first to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after having been informed of this and this material, etc., is that everyone is in the material, that it does not contain any concrete data to indicate the suspicion of corruption in companies whose founder or majority ownership is Republic of Slovenia. This decision is a misjudgment, mainly because it is clear from the transcript of the committee that a government representative said that on 8 July that the cantonese investigative authority in Switzerland had already obtained data confirming the possibility that the recipients of the illegals had paid Ericsson, both in Swiss accounts and in Slovenian citizens. Then again, the Secretary of State replied to a specific question, in the last contact held by the Attorney General's Office, I can say that we have found that the cantonal prosecutor's office in Zurich is in intensive police investigation and it is agreed that the Swiss prosecutor will be informed within one month whether Slovenian citizens or Slovenian companies are also involved in this matter." And the deadline is set. This is June 5th, because the government has obviously followed the proposal for a decision here, because the proposal for a proposal for a proposal is that this should take place by June 5th. In spite of this debate by the Secretary of State, we see a proposal for a conclusion that there is no concrete evidence to suggest corruption in companies. However, you have been informed that this procedure is still under way. Then I think that such a conclusion in such a dictatorship is absolutely, absolutely wrongly written. A similar performance was performed by a representative of the Anti-Corruption Office. It was also said in the debate that this item on the agenda is an abuse of the National Assembly for a pre-election debate. Colleagues and colleagues! We feel the other way around. Citizens and citizens, electives and voters, taxpayers have the right to learn how officials or those elected to positions of responsibility perform public property or act in the manner of the law and other provisions under which they are obliged to act. Any decision taken by the National Assembly in these months shall be pre-eminent. We also believe that, on the basis of the proposal for a decision set out in point 2, that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, within the framework of its legal powers through the Government, could verify all financial transactions, take into account its position that the Committee has twice stated that such a decision has been formulated incorrectly, that it cannot directly impose on the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering how and how it should verify all financial transactions, but must do so under its powers. Such a decision would be in full compliance with the law, which also provides for the operation of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Today, in our view, we will most likely also hear the following position in the debate. You, too, who criticize us, who wrote some of the eyewitnesses on our account, say you who participated in the government of Dr. Bajuk years ago and so on, are not innocent. We also have examples of individuals who may have had the wrong elements in some of their actions. It's a classic element that's supposed to say that the hand washes the hand. It is right here that there is an opportunity for the National Assembly to respond in a transparent manner. With a word per day. This cannot be an argument that such a debate is limited, or that it is simply said, we are all the same, there is nothing we can do. And lastly, even this principle of equalizing large and small fish, sometimes happens - absolutely every illegality is worth moving away from it and not accepting it, but then there is the equalization of large and small fish and the release of a big fog. And in the end, people get confused and the point gets lost. Let me get this straight. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the applicants have drawn the right conclusions. The decision under point 2 could only be supplemented a little. Today, after the discussion, the National Assembly could then adopt a decision on the basis of which those state institutions which are responsible for overseeing this area would also submit their reports to the National Assembly within one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u221	Thank you. I invite Mr Jelk Kacin to the floor of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u222	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Comrade Vice-President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, representatives of the media and the general public, who is accompanying this event! So the public is wider. The claim that there was no transfer earlier was incorrect. It was a transmission. TV3 carried us to six o'clock. But it is true that obstruction is difficult to endure. It's hard to see, it's even harder to hear. Maybe it was obstruction because the owner was wrong. That's where the Croatian owner is now. But if I remember correctly, TV3 had the best coverage in Slovenia. I remember so much more because I used to be the Minister of Information, and I know which frequencies and which converters were involved. And at this moment, of course, the Ljubljana cable is also carrying us. So, the media has the opportunity to monitor our work. The debate on what is the right editorial decision and what is an incorrect editorial decision is offensive. TV Slovenia is not Kocijancič's TV. And the technicians and the cameramen out there aren't Kocjančič's. And Metka Linšček is definitely not Kocijancič's, and she's not Kocijancič's. And if Mr Janša is now performing directly for 24 hours or in the central diary - now I am talking about the diary - he certainly does not cooperate with Kocijancič and does not submit to Kocijancič and does not speak to Kocijancič. But at the expense of the subscription we all pay, it makes the entire Slovenian public happy with his vision of all this happening. I can see that words hurt because the number of people watching and looking at the right is decreasing, it's almost obstruction. But once again, I would like to stress that if this national assembly wants to be a high assembly, it must behave with dignity. And then don't make enemies among journalists who sit here all day waiting for something useful to be published. That's incorrect. In this way, we simply do not respect their work and are politically involved in the competence of the regulators as well as in the competence and work of individual rapporteurs and rapporteurs. We're talking about companies here. Comrade Marjan Podobnik just spoke about these things. And it's not nice to harm an economic society. It is as if these companies, which have been very much spoken about, would not have written long answers - one even gave us a bag of documents - but rather a reason for ridicule, as a challenge to any reading, rather taking into account what they have written to us. Here I am followed by the Minister of Justice; formerly she was the Attorney General of State. I've been on the law myself for a year, and it seems to me that the essence of this event that we have here is to prove guilt to those who are being accused of something, not a request, demands that innocents defend themselves here when they simply cannot perform. It's, you know, spread out on the collective, it's a rescue just like that, a little bit around. And something like that, I mean, they don't let you do it in your first year. Any freshman would fall on each exam if he were to limit it in the way that some political parties' champions do here. That's unworthy. Stop underestimating yourself and stop smiling! People imagine that you have a high education and that you know something about our legal system. What they wrote to us, what they said to us, it was like nothing had happened, like no one had sent anything. It counts nothing, it's ignored, it's simply ignored, it's ignored, it's rejected by disgust. You can imagine, the companies were even hoping to respond, and they said it wasn't true! But you can imagine that some economic society is going to do something like this and is so bold that it answers the national assembly - as if it were an insult because they answered us. Yesterday, at the beginning of the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, I drew procedural attention to some things, and then I also said the following. When we tried for our own country, mobile phones began to be born in this country. The headquarters was in Zagreb. And at the time we had analogues, they weren't GSM phones, they were big, they were heavy, Slovenia was poorly covered, but yet those who had the most responsible functions could hear each other. And since we knew what we were talking about, we could talk about things that those who were listening and monitoring our conversation could not follow. At that time, a political decision was made to ensure that we have our mobile phone operator, that we will have headquarters in Ljubljana, and that we will be able to cover all of Slovenia in a decent way, so that this thing will work. I'm going to go after individual companies that have been specifically exposed here. I won't touch Ultra. Entrepreneur Gregor Golobic will defend Ultra himself. He's high enough to do it. What needs to be defended, however, are large companies, where there are hundreds and thousands of employees. And the first such company is Mobile. Even this National Assembly, we are all users of their services. The National Assembly has a contract with them and we are one of one million 345 thousand Slovenes and Slovenes and other citizens or resident here in Slovenia who use their equipment and services. Their response says they cooperate with 266 operators in 160 countries, UMTS operates in Slovenia. It's not a theory, it's a practice, it works in Ljubljana. Yesterday we were able to watch in Finance, I think, Minister Gunter, and the Swedish Minister, how excited they are to look at a live picture that UMTS is transporting within Ljubljana. So, Slovenia is not a theory. Slovenia is a practice with regard to UMTS. And why this firm should tolerate this peacefully and swallow this swimming and these disqualifications that are happening here. It's Ericsson. This is what my colleague Marjan Podobnik was just talking about. I'm sorry, John Squirrel. I'm doomed. I also apologize to Marianne. I called on the president of the Mobitel administration and asked him why the answer made it more clear that these charges were irrelevant at Ericsson's expense, and he said, "That's enough." And I said it wasn't enough. And that's why he sent me a paper that I'm about to read, and you can multiply it. The head is Ericsson, and writes in English, the date is 27.5.2003 and it reads: "Ericsson states that knowone Mobile or its employees nor the two experimental - sorry! - nor the two external members of the UNTMS committee, have received any concerns of Ericsson in guards to the UNTMS contract," and signed Aike Enel, 27.5.2003. If Ericsson says he didn't pay anyone anything, that's enough for once. But when someone proves that someone paid off something, they have to prove to Ericsson that he paid something and to whom he got something. I don't know, maybe the former Attorney General can help me, but as long as we don't have anything solid in our hands, we don't have any options, and even less face to insult or disqualify anyone, just as we do here in the National Assembly and even protest, because this can't be done in front of the entire Slovenian public, which is even more unworthy. Minister Gantar has already spoken of a letter signed by Mr Chimjar of Digital where he requests that documents not be used. Yesterday I said that I had this writing by Mr Chimjar, who is by the way just like me, but he's from above, me from below, the other we have nothing in common, I understand mainly as a step back, realizing that it's dangerous to accuse someone of something that he doesn't. But when this is so widely distributed in the public, it becomes not only very dangerous, it becomes very uncomfortable, and the businessman who signs it is discredited. And it's hard to serve white bread at home if you've once discredited yourself in such an inappropriate way. Slovenia is small, we all know each other and imagine that we know what this is all about. It happens to me that I find out again and again that they know more about me than I know. It happens to me that they see me in Canada when I'm in Ljubljana and they're willing to swear. And there's a lot of people here who are ready, and I apologize for what I'm about to say, babbling nonsense in the belief that they're telling the truth. Therefore, stronger evidence needs to be selected. The game played here is very serious, but of course it is harmful. It causes economic damage. What's going on here is dumping. You know what dumping is? Something that's immoral, something that's not allowed, something that's outside the rules. Our businessmen were always afraid that there would be a debate on "dumping" and that "dumping" would prove to them. But what's going on here in some political parties is not just dumping. That's something they used to teach me when I was in high school, that's "crazy." This is the destruction of your own substance. The workers said 200 years ago, they were destroying machines because they were convinced that they were causing them harm and heating their lives. And what's going on here, ladies and gentlemen, is political dumping. It's a shot to the knee. And those who do it do it in a healthy mind, in a healthy mind. My question is: Why do they want to harm these companies? Why are they throwing sand in our eyes? The answer is simple. Because it's much easier to smoke people against the government than to offer a positive program. That's the easiest thing to do. You put another liter on the table in the village and you burn so much, and then you tell me what to do. And that's obviously what's going on here. This is much easier than preparing a positive program. But what's particularly perverse here is when you have a document on one side that clearly tells you that nothing is happening, but it's something that I would call ingratitude. And I'll explain why I'm talking about ingratitude. If I take into my hands the last number of Democracy and look at the last page, I see there's a Mobile up here. Now I don't know who's bribed, who's running customerism, or Mobile to SDS and to Democracy, or SDS and Democracy to Mobile. I thought it was a coincidence, you know, and I went to look at the previous number, and they made it for me on September 29th, and you wouldn't believe Mobile. Democracy and SDS have an annual contract with this firm, which is running down clientism and corruption here. I couldn't believe it, so I called the president of the board, said if it was possible, right, yeah, we have an annual contract. How's that? We have it, we have so many readers, and a lot of people read it, and then our commercial comes to them. I said okay, thank you very much. How long have you been running this? It's been a long time. And I've ordered an emissary group to find me another number. And this January's number isn't on the back of Mobile, but it's on the other side. On the back there is someone else, Life, English-life, a product for Life from the Beerhouse Union. I understand that my colleague Brace is lobbying for Interbrew, because it's nothing bad. I understand there's a brewery here that has the right to sponsor anyone, and of course it's been doing that for a long time. You will not see anywhere, though Fructal, what you would expect, but you will see, of course, water, Zalo, this is good water, this is September 2002. You'll see a TV pika in here. I always thought that TV Pika belonged to another political option, but apparently it was clienteleism between social-democrats. I'm sorry. I have here a number from 2003, when "guys become guys", Pivovarna Union, Pivovarniška ulica 2, Ljubljana. Well, I don't know if it's customerism or not, but apparently, money doesn't smell. I'd just expect that if someone was already holding your voice over the water, that you wouldn't push it like that, I'd say, weird, I used a mild expression, a strange way. When I realized that it was such a long-standing form of customerism, I might then start to wonder that it was Mr Slivnik's philosophy, who wanted to go to the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia last year, to see how things would fall apart from the inside. This has always seemed to me one of the brightest thoughts that has been promoted in our political space. This one seems particularly bright to me. And I kept going, and then I started to wonder if any of these companies were actually funded by any of the political parties. And I came to the request made by Dušan Strnad, the chief secretary of SDS, on September 12th, where he asked for, I will quote, "because we know that you do not care what the image of Slovenia will be after this year's elections, we are addressing you, the period before us, will certainly be crucial for Slovenia." It's perfectly legal, because in this case, you only got 600 grand. I asked to be given a document in the Slovenian People's Party, but they told me, it makes no sense because it is not Marjan Podobnik on Telekom. And then I quit. He also asked his colleague Jelinčič, and that they did not think they had denied anyone, they also gave them the money - 400,000. Four hundred thousand they gave them. My question is: What does it take to mutilate successful Slovenian companies? I won't deal with Cell Phones anymore. I'd rather go to Telekom. You're home. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I'll come to Mail, too, yeah. [[...]] I'm going to Fatty first. The debiter is a reputable company with German capital, behind which Deutschetelek and Deutschetelek have clearly recorded long-term cooperation with Mobile in their future strategy, as all software solutions relating to new software are tested in Slovenia within the framework of Mobilel. That's why they're strategic partners. The cell phone is so high on top when it comes to these technologies that Deutschetelek also allows himself, through Debitel, to test his offer at home and around the world in Slovenia first. And what's great for us is good for them. But I do not know why none of the previous speakers quoted a document signed by the President of the Telecom administration, Mr Libor Vončina, where he categorically denied all the charges that were made. It's like he didn't write anything, like he didn't sign anywhere, like it wasn't Mr. Libor Vončina, but some L. V., whose initials are involved, and since this is a suspicious person, there is no need to speak frankly about who wrote or what he said about it. There were a lot of CEOs there in Telekom. If I recall correctly, there were three of them, and Zupan and Grašek, before that was Marjan Podobnik, I apologize. But there was a man there all the time who cared about the continuity. Ivek, that's not a joke on you. He was a mag. Miran Kramberger. He cared about continuity and he was the one who also made operational decisions. So everything you have to tell the gentlemen in Telekom can be checked in the archives of this company. And you will always find the same name signed under the execution of certain things. So, you said let me say something about the Post Office. Alfonz Podgorec wrote us paper too, but as if he didn't send it, no one wants to deal with it. Many, however, would like to talk about how many cars it is appropriate to follow, what you have out of it, and how much it costs. I have a feeling it's not about the ministers in the shadows, but I have a feeling that there are a lot of candidates for the boards of directors of these companies in the shadows. Everyone understands Mobile, everyone understands Telekom, everyone wants to be president of the administration or director of Slovenian Post. I don't know why. But there's so much knowledge here that you just can't believe it. Therefore, I think it is important that, at the end of this opening act on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, I express the expectation that someone who has something bad to say about these companies will back it up with evidence. Right away. Now. If not, he should apologize before the vote for all the injustices and all the economic damage he has deliberately caused by his work. The LDS will make available the time it has for this purpose. The LDS will, if necessary, sit here until midnight or until 2:00 in the morning, so that you can apologize if necessary. And I'm afraid we're gonna have to. And that many times it will be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u223	Thank you, colleague Kacin. Quiet Run gets the word. Position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The signatories to the request for an extraordinary meeting shall draw up, at this point in the agenda, an address which shall already identify the facts and the guilt. They requested the participation of many of the most responsible representatives of the state institutions at the meeting of the National Assembly, and they know that this is not possible. And in public performances, they made it clear that they were to prepare concrete cases and evidence of corruption related, of course, to the behaviour of government parties. At the end of their materials, the signatories of the extraordinary meeting proposed three conclusions that would only begin to examine the responsibility of state institutions and public function holders, which are already announced as a fact in the title of the material and in the public eye. And this is the first abuse of such material and such behavior in the public. To collect the necessary material to run the institutions, collect it and draw it into motion. The Prosecutor's Office, if a government is to be needed, the relevant state authorities, by no means at all, first ask for a meeting of the National Assembly at which he would speak for hours and hours, and then finally say, "Now let the institutions start working." I agree that the business of state institutions, in the functioning of public enterprises, in the business of political parties and responsible individuals is also about business connections that can be linked to clienteleism and also to corruption. I am not saying that our country is immune to such phenomena and that all such issues can therefore be monitored without attention. Finally, we have recently adopted a law on the prevention of corruption in the National Assembly and have organised ourselves socially to fight corruption. However, I argue that the same resources are not always appropriate for each objective. And I say that poor and without concrete evidence, a prepared debate in the National Assembly on such an important issue can harm rather than benefit from the objective set by the signatories to the request. For if there are no more than some very general claims, such as misuse of business secrecy, some warnings about newspaper articles, some names of people who, due to their political affiliation or activity in the opinion of the proponents, should not carry out any economic activity if the chosen company, which, according to the opinion of the signatories, should not cooperate with state authorities or public undertakings, then this company will not be able to substantiate all claims in preparation for the meeting if a number of responsible individuals who come to their home work and refuse claims are required to participate in the preparation of the meeting, if the debate is already assumed to justify nothing but to oblige the competent authorities to start their legal duties, then it is clear that the meeting cannot produce any results and that it is intended only for general discussion and general prosecution. That it is intended to create an atmosphere of suspicion and mistrust, that is intended primarily for activities, how to show that some parties are good and others bad, to create an atmosphere of general mutual accusation, the atmosphere of diminishing all the achievements of our country and showing only themselves and its customers as the only ones fighting for the interests of people and the welfare of Slovenia. And that they would be able to achieve a clear and clear objective for individuals, that the National Assembly and that all those who possibly accompany this meeting would have to follow our arguments half a day or all day, so that they might finally adopt some conclusions, which, I say again, offer, without evidence, work to the relevant competent national authorities. In order to demonstrate on specific occasions how, without evidence and non-objectives, the indications of the applicants of the material are to indicate only the following. In order to create the atmosphere of total corruption of the ruling policy, the proposed material must, of course, provide examples which should, in particular, prove this and only prove this. However, in order to make the picture clear to citizens and citizens, it must only be the part of the Slovenian policy that is now in power, but even if it is only for a month or so, so the applicants do not talk about cases, because it should be the work of people who have been in the ruling coalition before, perhaps even years before, perhaps for people who are publicly referred to as having had strange transactions. No, only those who are in the ruling coalition need to be named. And look at the way it is. Surprisingly, I will not give the name that anyone hopes to say that the letter was not misused, because this letter was misused at the first point of the request, it was quoted in the quotations, and the content with the signature was quoted. And why? Only in order to conclude that the Slovenian public has not been informed of any proceedings brought against those responsible by the prosecution. According to information from abroad, the authorities in Switzerland and Sweden are actively investigating matters. They're investigating. Now, let's go first. There is a reasonable suspicion that politicians from government parties have with their influence prevented an independent investigation. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we learned that the investigation could not yet be because the gentlemen in Switzerland and Sweden conducting the investigation are still conducting this investigation and that our respective authorities are cooperating with them. Once they have the necessary information, they will proceed with the investigation. This was a notification that no one denied. However, the Signatories of the request may further state that there is a reasonable suspicion that the investigation has been prevented. That's easy to say, so there's no one to blame if you warn me about it, you're ugly because you're warning me about the stupidity that's written down. Come in. How pointless these structures are to the end, let me also back up the examples from which the involvement of politicians in the United List of Social Democrats should also be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, the applicants of the request have been able to choose nothing more for the United List and no less than two cases. I say again, nothing more, nothing less than two cases. They're both completely pointless. The first would be Telekom's consulting contract with the company, and I apologize to my colleague, but that's how KC Consultung is written. I think it'd be better if you wrote a consult, and the director is a mag. Janez Kocjančič. The second is an agreement on the sponsorship of Enk Maribor at the time of Enka Maribora Jože Jagodnik. What's wrong with that? Please tell me what's wrong with this. The consulting contract was concluded for a few months at a normal price. Gentlemen say that there was no specific substantive obligation. It was written down. They just don't want to quote it. When the deal was done, it was terminated and the contracting authority was satisfied and paid for it. It is even more pointless to question the sponsoring contract with Enka Maribor. See, the signatories themselves claim that Telekom had a lot of sponsoring contracts at the time of the conclusion of the contract with Enka Maribor. Hundreds of sponsoring contracts. Among these hundreds of sponsorship contracts, I think that four of them mentioned, including the contract with Enka Maribor, to prove that this contract was meaningless or to say that there was no advertisement for Telekom at the respective games or to say that Enka Maribor was a club that did not attract any viewer to the game, so it was not worth sponsoring. No, they don't say anything. They say it is wrong because it was a sponsoring club that was then in the rise that he was involved in the European League. It is only the fault of this club that the director of this club was then successful director Jože Jagodnik, President, Jože Jagodnik, who is on the index, on the list made by gentlemen from both sides and third parties, and therefore must not conclude any contract with Telekom. Yes, I have to say that I simply don't understand it and I don't think it's appropriate, but I don't even know how these gentlemen can talk about the market economy, about free competition for equality, democracy and so on. And on such reckless or knowingly criminal charges, there can be no sound debate on the social phenomenon of clientelism and corruption. Just the opposite. Gentlemen, who are starting such a serious topic in such an unbiased and populist way and so political, cannot expect anything but that the debate on a serious problem will remain unobjective, bad, that it cannot produce results. On such a basis, the prepared material in view of possible serious problems cannot serve to solve these problems and, unfortunately, it will also do so this time: the whole discussion will focus on the mutual political accusation and the signatories will not want to admit that such an examination is to a large extent their own fault, because it has been so unprepared and politically triggered or that such a debate and such consequences may also be desired. Reverse! They will argue that we are guilty of all others who do not want to admit what has happened in Slovenia. And here is a problem that has already been mentioned and I want to mention it myself. Indeed, a problem which concerns not only the applicants of the request for this extraordinary meeting, but all of us, Members and Members of Parliament and the National Assembly as an institution. The problem of how we have an orderly work of the National Assembly and how, if a question other than formal conditions also contains substantive criteria, we can convene meetings, place items on the agenda, what is appropriate to deal with a particular issue and what is not. I cannot believe and will never consider such an understanding of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by which any material, even if it does not allow for a serious assessment, constitutes the basis for an extraordinary meeting only if it is signed with only one quarter of the Members and Members. Maybe I'm wrong. That's my point. The material or question that would require a different treatment, such as hearing before other authorities or parliamentary inquiry, on the basis of only one quarter of the Members and Members of Parliament having signed it. I just don't accept that logic. I therefore have many reasons to assess that the proposed point for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is not intended at all to clear up any specific issues and even less to create systemic solutions for better social action against corruption, which should be the responsibility of the State Assembly. No! No! Unfortunately, it is intended exclusively to make political accusations of past unproven discreditment, creating a general climate of mistrust. What's better than throwing a few accusations into the air, some unproven claims, and then expecting, but maybe something's gonna happen. People will say if it was spoken in the National Assembly, but it's definitely true. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is happening. It's not responsible, I don't think we should do that. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Unfortunately, the fact that something is being said in Parliament is becoming less and less a criterion for truth. [[...]] We should also consider this, Members and Members, because this concerns the reputation of this house and the reputation of each of us. This should also be considered by the opposition, which calls for such issues to be discussed at the meetings of the national assembly. To think because such a situation can come back to her when she takes power; or perhaps she does not count on her ever having elections and authority, but therefore creates an atmosphere of general mistrust and suspicion, which is not only good for the functioning of power, but not good for the functioning of the state. And the state is not just a ruling coalition. The country is not just an opposition, the country is also a citizen and a citizen who deserves a fair policy attitude towards the tasks and responsibilities that this policy must carry out. Such meetings of the National Assembly are not, in my firm opinion, the same. And if we can't stop them, we can and we have to tell them what they're meant for. So if we wanted to be good to this country, we wouldn't have any meetings like this, or there would be as few of them as possible. In the interests of the functioning of the rule of law, this debate would not diminish their own reputation. It's not about fear, it's not about anxiety, it's not about shrinking before the facts, it's not about wanting to shut someone's mouth and stuff. The point is that each body can carry out its tasks, so that each Member and Member should be held accountable for their words, that it should also bear the consequences if it falsely accuses the individual if he falsely accuses the companies. No, my colleagues and colleagues, that's another thing. But we are not aware of all of this, and I would like them to be aware as much as possible and to become a more responsible country in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Saša Peče, a member of the Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u226	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I would not like to see a failing, misleading speech by the representatives of the Liberal Democracy impress citizens or any of my fellow Members. It was said that the Slovenian National Party had acquired the financial resources of the electoral campaign by Mobilell, and it was forgotten that the Slovenian National Party had also returned these funds. Mr Kacin's speech reflects his character, which means that many important facts will be kept silent. As far as the point of content is concerned, it should be pointed out that criminals usually say that the talk about crime is immoral. However, in the Liberal Democracy they say that the talk of corruption is immoral and that the United List of Social Democrats says that the talk of corruption is meaningless. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we cannot attract or attach to this. We are convinced that a speech is still needed and that it is more important or more important to take action in this area. Unfortunately, however, we see that the Slovenian government, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has not taken action in this area before. According to our assessment, a person must be a member of the LDS so that he can claim that there is no corruption in our country. The problem in the Slovenian National Party is multilayered. For the first time, of course, this question of so-called connected persons - I regret that the Liberal Democracy has allowed me only 20 minutes to discuss and therefore I will not be able to list even connected persons - but the fact is that on all these documents, the circus is 15 pages of exclusively connected persons who control financial and economic flows with the thirst of the government. All these financial and economic flows, however, are reflected in the increase in public debt due to the fact that all these gentlemen, who are now so highly praised and so highly praised, are working on this account to work with public money for their profits and, of course, to show negativeness or negativeness in the so-called public debt. I think you can be ashamed, especially of you, in the Liberal Democracy, not even for a moment to think that all of you are doing and increasing public debt, which is already over 700 000 per newborn, precisely because of that kind of work when you say it is immoral to talk about corruption - please. I sincerely hope that this is not the whole feature of Liberal Democracy, but that this is your individual feature. The second segment of the problem that we see in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is, of course, the issue of non-recognition of the existence of corruption. This proved in the past week, very briefly when the college prevented a substantive debate, so that it would also allow me to talk about names and surnames and businesses, but I'm sorry, you made it impossible for me. And secondly, after all, the ignorance of TV Slovenia, which, despite the legal provision, does not monitor work in the way it should, and, of course, does not deserve funding from subscription. The third issue or segment that we see as problematic within the National Party's parliamentary group is, of course, the work on the one hand of this Parliament, on the other hand, of the Slovenian Government. The government is either blinding its eyes or claiming it is not within the government's jurisdiction. At least I will be forever reminded of the speech of Prime Minister Rope, who said about the question of SIB Bank: "Yes, but this does not concern the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Yeah, what does it matter, the government of the Republic of Austria or anyone else? I believe that this is a way of thinking after a close-member of the ruling coalition in this House. In the context of the following matters, therefore, the functioning of Parliament is the fact that you are trying to shut your mouth. We have received proposals from opposition Members from the National Party these days to discuss corruption over the past few years. The first case put by Mr Puksic about the bribery of a Member has been rejected by you in the ruling majority. You rejected the second case of suspicious bankruptcy procedures proposed by your colleague Jerovšek. Third case, you rejected the issue of the craftsmen's fund in the ruling party. Case number four. On the government's supervision of Telekom's business and his companies, you rejected colleagues from the ruling majority in the National Assembly. In addition to these proposals, so that I will not, of course, read them all, I will choose some. You refused to discuss the ownership of the core organisation within the framework of the Slovenian Bistrica, which was proposed by your colleague Sok. You didn't even allow a debate on that. In addition to the credibility of the country's financial performance data, you rejected the proposal in the Bajuk procedure. Furthermore, the protection of the Slovenian worker, the proposal put in the procedure of the Slovenian National Party - you refused. The Slovenian national party then made several more of these proposals, rejecting them all in a row. You rejected the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, again you did not allow the debate. Hereinafter: you have once again rejected the holding of capital shares in this House. And of course, these things are still huge and huge and let me tell you that you have rejected all of this only in this mandate. If I looked for documentation from the previous term, this data would probably be even more terrifying, because people would actually realize that you do not want to talk in anything, because you always use one and the same argument: it is pointless to talk about it, we have no power and you forget that it is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that it has all the legislative knowledge of power in its hands, and you act exclusively, forgive the expression as cowards. The fourth segment that we see in the National Party as controversial and one that enables corruption and customerism in our country is the issue of calls. No one, or transparency, is a zero. We managed to get a list of over 1,000 companies within the Group of Members, but of course there is nowhere to be seen - and if we connect with another segment, the question of connected persons - where this leads. It brings almost one third of all connected companies institutionalised in the form of Liberal Democracy. And let anyone else say that the Liberal Democracy does not participate in this kind of work! Pretty quickly, in short, it becomes clear that A and Z have the Liberal Democracy in their hands in a negative way. In the days of the debate, so with regard to this extraordinary meeting, in particular - colleague Jakič, I asked earlier if he can calm down, thank you
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u227	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u228	On the days when the debate was held around the extraordinary meeting [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You have a memory like a goldfish, which means you forget in three seconds, and now calm down, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u229	Order! Don't insult your colleagues. However, colleagues must not interfere with your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u230	On the days when the debate took place in the framework of the National Assembly, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u231	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u232	different solutions were offered. [[...]] Only within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group have we received over 300 letters from entrepreneurs who are in no way in any way in contact with the country in the area of tendering. And where's the competition? However, all tenders or most of the invitations to tender shall elect companies which cooperate in a friendly manner with the Liberal Democracy. Where's the competition? Where's the healthy competition? It is not, as there is no healthy competition in Slovenian politics. There are no equal conditions for businesses, there is no possibility of equal market entry. Below: How the National Assembly deals specifically with customerism issues, you will probably be disappointed again. Several ten times this National Assembly met with laws that have financial implications to help Slovenian railways. Always with the same arguments, if the Slovenian railways had passed that period of difficult independence of the Republic of Slovenia, that we could update both the infrastructure and the assets and the assets. A few ten times. Last time we met, we met for a month in this National Assembly. Despite the behaviour of members of the National Assembly that such work naturally increases public debt, it is a national assembly, without even having a minister's mandate, because the Minister took office in the same 24 hours, you are Members of the Liberal Democracy despite the behaviour that Slovenian Railways, which, among other things - you may find now a little bit more interesting - during the period I will now mention, was the Chief Supervisor, Mr Bandelj, today's Secretary-General of the Government, the former Minister and, of course, a very important member of the Liberal Democracy. Maybe you'll be interested. In the period 2000-2003 alone, Slovenian railways or Slovenian railways accepted various contractual services. I will list some of the most important segments: for the first time, business financial cooperation is - should be implemented for Slovenian railways by two companies. The value was around €200,000, for one company and for another company about 10 million Slovenian tolars. We need to know that with the adoption of the legal obligations that we have had over 10 in the past period, this obligation is assumed by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens in return for an increase in public debt. In the field of legal services, only this company, which you have spent more than ten times on financial resources and whose chief supervisor was one of the prominent members of the Liberal Democracy, was provided with legal services, three legal offices, and only the first received over 200 million Slovenian tolls in three years of legal services from the holding company or Slovenian railways. Hereinafter: cooperation or advice in the field of audit and tax advice - in three years 60 million Slovenian tolls for advice in this field. And in order not to remain modest, in this holding company or in Slovenian railways they have also enjoyed consulting in the field of public relations, advertising. This was done by four companies, each of which received several million Slovenian tolars for this activity. Below: production of various studies. Slovenian railways or holding company are leased by various studies of 16 companies. Each of these 16 companies in this period that I refer to received again some 10 million Slovenian tolars. Furthermore, these contracts were, of course, still in the field of advice in the hiring of long-term loans. Not only did they have financial advice concluded with someone else, but they also had special advice on the rental of long-term loans. For this advice that someone advised them whether to take credit or not, they again paid several million Slovenian tolars. And of course, not in the end, but that I will not bore you anymore, because I see you bored, that you don't care about the public debt and that you don't care about the situation in our country, I will conclude by consulting a link with computer programs where Slovenian railways or holding companies have recommenced a few contracts with six companies for a few million Slovenian tolars again. And of course, what's the worst? The worst part is that on the Supervisory Board of Slovenian Railways, which was in the Supervisory Board on 10.3.2004 - I have a magnetic record - they found that none of these companies were selected on the invitation to tender. It's all over the invitation! And when Slovenian railways say, for one or three reasons, that they come into a negative financial situation, it's no wonder, with such contracts that they accept or conclude that they need money, this state council always says generously, let's do this. Is it not some kind of political corruption, the board of directors of this company finds, therefore, that the tenders that have not been concluded on the basis of the tenders have not been concluded? And secondly, one of the leading men of Liberal Democracy has overlooked all of this during this period. Even last month, you adopted one such act, which went specifically for 35 billion Slovenian tolars of write-offs of long-term loans of 24 billion and short-term loans of 10 billion Slovenian tolars. But this national assembly has, of course, accepted this or, I apologize, the ruling coalition has, of course, accepted it! And the explanation of what the government wrote down in all this is too ridiculous to be true. There was no debate either. 20 minutes of discussion and even after most of the representatives of the Slovenian National Party. There is, of course, much more to say in Slovenian railways, but I am sorry that it is you who, in the ruling majority, have not given me more time. In short, participation in the financial advice of legal services, public consultation, the production of various studies and tax advice could be attributed to an undertaking where only the Director is employed, because he does not have his own job to do so. However, a giant like Slovenian railways in that period or holding today has employed people for the same work that the gaons hire in third parties. Well, we have already found that, of course, there was no invitation to tender following the findings of the Supervisory Board this year. That doesn't hurt either, because you don't care. The next time your friends, capitalists and politicians need money again, you will raise your hands in this House, not knowing that this will increase public debt. That the money that we decide that is true on the one hand is only imaginary because no one is responsible for it, and that is why it is so easy to redistribute. But if it were to be redistributed according to the example of the National Party, so that money could come into the hands of those whose criteria are not political affiliation, but the need and quality of our society would be acceptable. However, when you encourage, in my opinion - I emphasise - according to my assessment - customerism and corruption in our country and, on the other hand, your representative in the introductory words speaks and tells the Slovenian public that corruption is pointless or I apologize, that was the position of the United List. The LDS said it was immoral! And then where does this national council lead us? In the National Assembly, there were complications or in Slovenian railways that were constantly multiplying around Slovenian railways, so around the sale of old locomotives, where there were several billion, millions of tolars of losses, where my fellow Members Zmago Jelinčič and Bogdan Barovič repeatedly asked questions to the Slovenian government, but it was always the answer: yes, it happens. But I don't want to bore you, because I can see that I'm boring you with the story of spending public finances, and I'd like to talk about some other cases, given that you've seen that we don't want to be concrete. See, the second case, when Minister Kopač - you are probably aware that this is the Slovenian government's minister - because of the entrepreneurial interests in the area of Volova rib from a professionally defined area of European importance, European importance has excluded this area. Nothing to you, nothing to me, he ruled out and said: this province no longer belongs to this professionally defined European category or land of European importance. On the same day, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a new version of the basic act dealing with such issues as Natura 2000. On the same day as the Minister himself, for reasons of entrepreneurial interest, he allowed one area to be excluded, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a general new strategy. Despite the opposition of the inspectors, the nature protection agency and the environmental agency. And, of course, a question you won't want an answer to. Who represented this entrepreneurial interest? What political party? The answer is in the palm of your hand. The following was also a speech that nothing concrete about the Post of Slovenia. We do not need to look far back, we know, the Director-General of Post Slovenia was long ago, Chairman of the City Committee of Liberal Democracy in Maribor. And what happens at the Post office of Slovenia. For the same service, the institution of Liberal Democracy pays three times less than the amount paid by another political party, but this is neither important nor as paid by a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, your inquiry into what you were doing in our country between citizens and citizens, when you wanted to know what the public interest is, even though I don't know what the answer will be, because you never heeded the answer in any way, was three times cheaper than sending a letter to an ordinary citizen. Isn't that corruption? To ensure that the most powerful political party receives an account for the provision of postal services three times lower than that of a citizen and a citizen. Very interesting. Very, also quality, probably the work of Post Slovenia. Talk about corruption, customerism. There was talk of suspicion. No! No! Let us be honest, if not otherwise, at least to ourselves. In my opinion, we should also be citizens and citizens. All abroad, all institutions warn us that corruption is present. You're the only one in the Liberal Democracy, the United List, and you're telling DeSUS: no, that's something that can't happen in our country. Because we're so honest ourselves, it's impossible. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not intended, I can guarantee for any member of the Slovenian National Party of four and, in all likelihood, there is no intention of any of the Members who signed an extraordinary meeting in order to bring the blame on each other today. The aim is for you to get real and try to do something that corruption or clienteleism will no longer exist in our society or we will minimize it. But why don't you want to? You, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but you're promoting customerism. You encourage corruption in our society by not even allowing us to speak honestly about this matter. My friend Barovic, please, my friend Barovic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u233	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u234	My friend Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u235	Peace in the hall. Also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u236	I'm asking you, if you show me the file, these are only letters in the last ten days about alleged irregularities. But how can I present this if I have 20 minutes at my disposal? And if you're sure there's no corruption or it wouldn't be much better, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u237	Colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u238	in order to prove this through the debate, not to limit it. [[...]] Within the National Party, not only are we outraged at the thinking and thinking of the ruling parties. Ladies and gentlemen, your mindset is your right. Unfortunately, though, it causes irreparable damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u239	Thank you very much, colleague Peca. A colleague, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u240	For a little while. It seems very unfair to me from Mr Pečet to regret during his performance by his colleague, Jakič, in inappropriate terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u241	That's what I warned you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u242	And it would be nice to apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u243	That's what I warned my colleague. There's no controversy. Never. Not among the Members of the House, not among the Members of the House of Speakers. Would you like an apology? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u244	Do you really expect me to apologize for saying that there is corruption in Slovenia? Hello!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u245	There's no controversy, pal. I thought you wanted a word of apology, just like the predecessor asked. My friend Janez Janša now has the floor. Then we will also conclude by presenting the views of the groups of Members and come to a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I expect that you will add one more hour to our parliamentary group, which the Liberal Democracy has already given us, if Mr Kacin meant it. He said he expected that if the applicants were unable to substantiate their claims with evidence, they would eventually apologize. I said, if you give us your time at our disposal for this, and he said that the LDS will make time available. So thank you for that hour. Apology comes to an end if you give us time and if we can't prove anything, we'll apologize. But if you don't give us time, then that's very hypocritical. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u247	There's no controversy in the bench or the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u248	Now, here I'm essentially going to do what in a normal democratic country I could do as a motion for an extraordinary session. So it explains why we even requested a meeting. And I would have stopped at the address. We noticed that there was a great deal of embarrassment when they were here at work, when they quoted the address in their work bodies, and they always wrote more or less just the first part. The second part of the address of the extraordinary meeting, where there is a reasonable suspicion of corruption, customerism and money laundering in the links between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, public enterprises owned by the majority of the state and the policy of the ruling parties in the Republic of Slovenia, this part has been going on as if this had not been the case. This is the first time that has happened, so far it's always been EPA III, and I don't know what else is needed in every law-enforcement thing, and that's what really bothered someone. But first, the main motive is why we proposed this session. We proposed this meeting because not only is the international research that came on the day - even later - but with whoever you are talking to in Slovenia, which runs a small or medium-sized enterprise and which does not have any connections in the Liberal Democracy or any other government party, says that, especially when it comes to public procurement, it is impossible to succeed if someone does not have some political support in those who have scissors and canvas. That the situation is such that the equality of economic operators on the market is fundamentally threatened, that many companies with good programmes with people who have ideas that fail because they do not get initial capital because they fail to do so are better, they have better offers, they do not come along. That the problem of the link between the party's key policies in power is said to be the Liberal Democracy, Executive, Public Enterprises and so forth, large and expensive, two years ago at the Congress of Liberal Democracy in Portorož, the then President of the Liberal Democracy, the Prime Minister, the current president of the country, who was probably well aware of what was going on. Mr Drnovšk's most receptive statement at your congress, in addition to not being elected as Secretary-General, was to warn the party about the rise in clienteleism. That's what your then president said. He warned the client of the increase in clienteleism in the party and in general in the executive branch. Two days went by, and then everything went quiet, and clientele wasn't less, but there was more. The situation has grown so much that after this international study, which we have already quoted several times today, Slovenia is the last of the 60 countries and regions measured when it comes to the abuse of internal information, which is, of course, another description of the word clientelism. Mr Gantar spoke of a letter and a few days ago we received a letter from one director of one company, a Slovenian company that reported corruption to the government's anti-corruption office and which was very specific in this report. But in this letter he sent to the National Assembly, there are two very interesting things. The first is to try to prevent this letter from being discussed. This letter was sent to the Anti-Corruption Office without being classified. He sent this letter to the embassy of a foreign country and now says that the Slovenian Parliament should not discuss this. This one's a barefoot. If he sent this to the embassy of a foreign country, he probably also has the right of legislative authority in this country to know what this is about. The other thing that is strange is that Mr Digital's director says that he is opposed to this letter being used in any way, but at the same time he does not deny any of the claims he has made in the application. It's a surprise. The other thing that's interesting is that this letter came at all. What happened to this man that he now wrote this letter, do you think he was watching television and that he remembered that it would be good to write this letter? No! No! Either he got good jobs or good threats, there's no other motive here. If such a letter were to come to another Parliament in some other European Union countries in which we are now, it would be a shock of the day and news of the day and everyone would wonder how this is possible. This guy would be on TV and in the newspapers, and we'd all be asking him how that's possible. You report corruption, and then you're against talking about it at all or getting to know Parliament. But to comfort Director Digital, we didn't get this letter from him, we didn't get it from him, we got the whole file that the government's anti-corruption office sent to the state prosecutor's office, without any indication of confidentiality. And we quote this in this material -- not that letter, but the entire report to the State Attorney's Office. The government's office for corruption, which is your office, you put people there, a ruling policy, notes that there are statements here that might have been followed, so they didn't reject it, but they gave it up to the prosecution. What does this report say? In view of all of this, this application, the director of this company, is based on the conclusion that, in 1997, 1998 and 1999, through his supplier at the expense of the lawyer's office in Switzerland, he transferred significant funds that were used below: to reward people who had decided to issue permits to the Mobile, to reward people who had their political power and influence to enable the Mobile to act in an anti-constitutional manner, to reward people who had decided to grant concessions, to reward people who were still preventing the court from deciding on the contested actions of the executive authority in granting licences or concessions for GSM services. Severe statements that you say when you read them like that, maybe you do, maybe you don't. But from the documents that we will present below, you will see that this is obviously true if you will give us time. Now, it goes on to say, according to our belief about the situation that was established in the GSM telephony sector in Slovenia, there are no rational reasons, but it was the only goal that influential individuals deriving from political and economic elites gain the greatest possible material benefit. We expect the address office to do all it takes to investigate and determine: who are the legal and natural persons from the Republic of Slovenia and who served in consultation with Ericsson and received fees from Swiss lawyers? How have these persons been associated with the highest representatives of the executive political authority? For any further information, we are also available, etc. That went well, I think the D.A. was once in the summer. Yesterday we asked representatives of the government, the Ministry of Justice - so there was no one from the prosecution, even though he was invited to a meeting of the committee - what was going on with this application by the Anti-Corruption Office. We have learned with great pain that this application has been received and that the Attorney General of the State has withdrawn it from the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office. That's all. It was also said that no procedures had been carried out because they had asked how the investigation was conducted in Switzerland and Sweden and that the matter had not yet been completed there and that they might now be notified within one month. But here in the application, it is very clear what is expected to be found here, not in Switzerland or Sweden, who are these people. If Interpol or Eurojust were to request this information, they would be obtained within one week. But that is, if it did happen - it was said that it happened only now after the call of an extraordinary session. It's only now that someone's been looking into it. But only if you fly through the Internet in this regard will you find that this is a serious matter, that the investigation is taking place both in Sweden and in Switzerland. In Switzerland in particular; the OBS Bank reported the case because it discovered 18 strange transactions in its accounts of over 350 million francs. Spiegel wrote that these are accounts of people from Slovenia and some other Eastern European countries. Once this has been published, it is likely that some authority in our country should take the initiative to verify this. Interestingly, when it was published last year, there was no mention of Mobileel. Everyone mentioned natural persons from Slovenia in relation to telecommunications. There are many companies involved in telecommunications in Slovenia, but only Mobile denied that it had nothing to do with it, although it was not mentioned at all. They denied it before anyone mentioned it. If you look at all these publications, you will see that there was no mention of it, but it was immediately demanti. Strange, practically unnecessary! Well, now let's see where the original sin of everything that's going on in telecommunications is and it's not right. Here we had a minister who talked about it before, and also in these papers that we received from Telekom and Mobilela writes how it is okay, however, that in Slovenia we have a successful mobile phone company that manages so many and so many markets that can finance sports, firefighters, even church events and so on. It's okay! But wouldn't it be better if there were two such companies in this highly pro-pulsive business? But they are not, because every domestic competition has been crushed since the beginning. In the end, it was allowed mainly foreign because it had to be due to the pressure of Europe, and today we have, in particular, growing foreign competition here. And cry now that one who is against the monopoly is working against the national interest is a little harsh. This area was expansive, instead of one successful company such as Mobil, we could have two, domestic. However, someone was afraid that this might lead to some pluralism, that it would have other consequences, so that this could not be controlled because it was billions and billions, and this competition was prevented. And let's see how it went. Only Mobiltel was established in November 1991. At first it was dealing with an analogue NMT system similar to that in Croatia, and at first the headquarters was there and then it was transferred here. The complex NMT 4100 system was built with the money of subscribers. In fact, the one who paid the very expensive NMT subscription at the time set up Mobile. According to the analogy of insurance company Triglav, all those shareholders should be because the system was established with this. Since this was a monopolistic situation, the system made it possible for large profits. The first price for mobile connection was at the beginning of 14,600 German brands, strong assets - all together. Then it fell slowly, but significantly slower than outside, and considerable resources flowed from it. In 1992 it was the first attempt to privatise Mobitel. They assessed the value of 6 million then German brands, but the subscription and distribution of shares resulted in a conflict within this circle, which was trying to privatize Mobil, and the attempt failed. As early as 1992, GSM was trying to establish a GSM system in Mobile. An invitation to tender was issued where Ericsson was selected. At that time, Mr Mitja Gaspari, even then, in writing, pointed out the big irregularities in this call, but something did not help much. There was no support at the Ministry of Transport and Communications for the introduction of GSM Mobil. At the time, politics was supposed to develop it for Telekom. To some extent, the phone was satisfied with this because there was no competition, the NMT was the only mobile phone and the profits still came. In 1995, a new law on telecommunications began to be drawn up, while there was a public and professional position that GSM should be introduced in such a way that more concessions could be awarded at the same time, not only one. To at the same time grant more concessions, such as the invitation to tender, for example, for the third generation and for the 1900s, and to develop from the beginning a competitive way to make the services cheaper and in this way the market may also be filled at home in quality before the arrival of foreign competition. But there was something wrong with that. There was a decision in the Liberal Democracy, formally to be taken by the expert body or the business and development council of the Liberal Democracy, led by Peter Rigel at the time. On this basis, an international invitation to tender for the construction of a GSM system for the whole of Slovenia was published. Ericsson was expelled again. Of course, he was 30% more expensive than the next bidder. In early November 1995, the GSM system began to operate experimentally without any permission. The application was made, but something has not changed significantly and the political process has begun. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia then adopted a decision at its 173rd meeting on 4 December 1995 to enable Mobitel to enter into operation as early as January 1996. In doing so, they simply forgot the previous decisions that several concessions should be granted, that telecommunications should also be liberalised, even though the LDS did so. And the minister, although formally from another party at the time as LDS, is now in LDS - perhaps because of this too, he has operated on these requirements. How'd it go? How it happened to shorten a little bit, let me make it very clear, the minutes of the meeting where the meeting was decided or the minutes of the meeting, where it decided how to develop GSM telephony or with the monopoly of GSM telephony in Slovenia. Even before that, the pilot licence was revoked to another domestic operator who had this experimental and extended it several times. And this way it was actually ensured that for several years there was no competition here and that at the time when it was most important. Now, let's take a look at this meeting, this meeting, this memo tells us everything. It was written by the then Director of the Telecommunications Directorate at the competent Ministry. This meeting was held on 11 January 1996, before the elections, at 16:00, the following were attended: Minister, Mr Igor Umek, Secretary of State Stanko Perper, Mr Anton Majzen Director Mobitel, Aloyz Zupan, Director of Telekom, Alfonso Medved, Director of Post and Zvonko Bijec, Director of the Agency responsible for this. He says: "At this meeting, two documents were submitted to me as Director, namely a decision to be issued by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, signed by the Minister, with whom Mobil is authorised to operate the GSM system at 900 mHz in the Republic of Slovenia, and a decision or radio permit under the then law to be issued by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Telecommunications and should of course be signed by the Director of this Administration. And that would give the cell phone a certain number of radio frequencies." The Director of Management has resisted the subject. He called, and here this is very concrete with the legal basis argumented, that other acts require that more frequencies or more concessions be granted to more domestic providers - then no one else has yet competed. The opinion of the Public Administration Institute was also obtained at the Faculty of Law, where it was also said that these acts, which were to be signed, were illegal. But then it didn't help anything. This is what the CEO says: "The minister told me that if I don't sign, they can sue me for different things. He told me he knew which companies I was visiting. He then told me not to allow myself to be called by the government for my sake, because if we fail to settle matters, he has a mandate from the Prime Minister to convene a government. I was given the above-mentioned decision of the Government and the legal opinion of the Ministry of Transport and Relations with the comment that I should not allow myself to object to this opinion. The attached documents were then modified several times. The original decision then produced a document, all of which are attached here to the annex in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Transport and Communications notes that Mobil d.d. Ljubljana GSM system operator in the Republic of Slovenia. The document was signed by the Secretary of State, Mr Stanko Perpar, at the request and insistence and in the presence of the Minister at this meeting. I would also like to make an opinion on this document, despite the long-standing appeal, on the grounds that I cannot decide on such important issues for the further development of our country at such a short-term meeting without the necessary professional justification and that I am not sure that it is in accordance with the legislation in force. However, at the request of the Minister, I had to sign a declaration that the administration of the Republic of Slovenia intended to issue radio licences in one third of the envisaged frequency band, 900 mHz, to Mobil d.d. for the operation of GSM mobile telephony in the Republic of Slovenia. Since there was no other or approximate legal basis, it was stated and it was then ascribed on the declaration that the declaration was made with a view to obtaining membership in the GSM society. The pure deception that should have fallen in every court didn't fall. At that same meeting, Mr Zupan, who was then Director of Telekom, requested Telekom to resign to the GSM operation for the benefit of Mobil. Mr. Zupan didn't want to confirm that if such a decision was to be made by the board of directors of Telekom. Although the hour was already late, the Minister asked the Director, Mr Zupan, to convene the Management Board immediately the following day. Note - The management board of Telekom adopted such a decision the next day. The meeting was concluded at approximately 3 p.m. at the time of the champagne, which was prepared by the pleased Mr Mobitel Director already with him. During the period of the Liberal Democracy, the government thus established a monopoly for a number of years in the field of GSM telephony. The way to exploit this source without any control has been opened. Today, we who demand greater transparency and equality of economic operators on the market are attacking a successful company or we have something against this successful company, it is funny. Ridiculous, insulting, and very shortsighted. If, at the time or a little later, more concessions were granted, more licenses, more successful domestic companies could be better able to help sports and culture, more would go into the state treasury and development would be faster in this country, because this is not half a percent of gross domestic product, but it is a significant proportion of this development, because it is the most pro-poverty sector. But that wasn't what they wanted, because control and control were what they wanted. And with regard to this company, along with Telekom - it is interesting that, while Mobile and Telekom were public companies, although Telekom formally had all the shares of Mobile, the government called them directly administrative or supervisory councils, both Mobile and Telekom - directly from political chairs. Only in recent years has this changed into an economic society into a majority of countries has this direct link been tried to be covered up a little bit. And pipe in both companies for the needs of members, sympathizers, societies, events, government parties, at least the Liberal Democrats were open to the public. There are no contracts here, it's a list of sponsoring contracts, I think for just two years or three years in Telekom. On each side is 40, these are hundreds or thousands, and here we see from this list of these contracts that actually these funds went to all sides, including all parts of the country, although still the most to Ljubljana. Many firefighters' societies, cultural societies, sports societies, clubs, events, pleasures have received these funds. However, when we look a little closer at the matter, we see that the matter is not so broad-minded and comprehensive and equally, because some amounts are very small, there are 50, 100 thousand, 500 thousand, and some amounts very large, 20 million, 30 million, there are contracts "for nothing to work and make a lot of money" - according to local words. Let's say at a time when he started his lawyer career in Mr Senica's office, the former Minister of the Interior, who was being intertwined here, and went after, as he said, into the private sphere, became LDS's policy, and today the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, when he was at work in this office, made a contract with Mr Senica Telekom, although he already had employees, I think 18 lawyers, although he already had contracts with lawyers representing the sums that are also unimaginable in this profession. This contract stipulated that Mr Senica would receive 500 000 nets, plus a monthly tax just because he had signed the contract and so they could call him. For each particular service, and for each cost it will have, in particular, charges everything with tax. Was it just by chance at a time when one of the main LDS politicians was there or not, I don't know. But the contract represents a typical, classic case of a harmful contract at the expense of an enterprise owned by the state or then by a public undertaking. So the contract with Mr Kocjančič is not so innocent. We've just heard in Trenj how he signed this contract for the company, not for himself. But what is consulting Mr. Kocjančič? He is a company where he owns, where the director was and where he was the only employee at the time; and he worked himself. Unfortunately, despite the contract which was signed until the replacement of Director Telekom in 2000, at the time of the Bajuk government, there was no evidence that he had done anything and it was paid every month. There were no strategic considerations. As soon as Mr Tevž was resolved, Mr Kocjančič wrote a letter that he himself was terminating the treaty because he believed that there would be no need for mutual trust for cooperation. So it wasn't done to the end, because it was for an indefinite period of time, as far as I know, but it broke when it was clear that maybe someone would look into it. It was a greasy salary, plus tax, plus all costs for some strategic "consideration" of globalisation and strategic problems. And there's a lot more to it. When we look at the matter, we see that the first impression justifies the very reasonable suspicion that everything was not all right. For example, in 1987 it was concluded, I think, 35 contracts and an annex to the international firm Telekom and the agency Imeldo 8000, which is owned and managed by the former Member, a policy, a member of a number of bodies of this party, Mr Ocvirk for over 300 million dollars in 1997, for matters where he can understand what is going on, but for some, at best, it would require a very high-quality institution to determine why certain contracts were involved. According to eyewitnesses, the then director of Telekom Anexa and Imelda 8,000 had to sign right in the elevator, and they were carried by various people from the Secretariat of Liberal Democracy. There is a reasonable suspicion and I am sure that colleagues from the Liberal Democracy will also be able to see whether this 300 million has indeed been warranted to an undertaking owned by the High Officer of the Liberal Democracy. And there are many other cases. At the time when we convened this extraordinary meeting or when we made this request, the Finance magazine immediately published how much the former director of Telekom Marjan Podobnik used for various sponsorships. First of all, I must say that the data was for 2001, when the Government of Liberal Democracy was there, which it later abandoned, and this was not at the time of the Bajuk government, as it was written. At the time of the Bajuk government, then President Telekom was there for half a year, and for sponsors he distributed about 32 million tolars, which is at least in the history of this company, at least ten times in the history of this company. In the same year he created over 300 million, ten times as much as Marjan Podobnik, in five months for various sponsorships, but this was never published in any newspaper, only on the first page what was appropriate for someone. Contract items or financial allowances for contracts, which are called, to make a lot of money, to do nothing, were very large. In Telekom, the cost line for intellectual and personal services was around 650 million a year, more than many budgets for many Slovene municipalities, then there were items, advertisements and propaganda, where various services were also partly paid, which probably should not even be paid. But this item from 650 million a year during the previous directors, in the time of Mr. Tevž, increased to 2 billion 600 million on Telekom. If we went to look at the contracts now, how much of this sponsorship was going on, even though the number was very big and the firefighters were cultured, etc., we would see that nothing more, roughly the same. However, payments have increased greatly to various agencies and services where you do not know where the money went in the best faith. Mr Marjan Podobnik then reduced this item from 2 billion 600 to a billion 700, and Peter Grašek, the recently removed director of Telekom, reduced it to 900 million. According to my information, this was a key reason for his replacement. That's not the first time you've heard that from me. True, he did not speak, but of course he received 16 or 32 average wages in return, amounting to tens of millions, and many are silent about it. Now that we see how many billions have gone from this public company, it is also more understandable that the resentment that occurred in 2000 when Mr Tevž was replaced. Many had very specific reasons for their indignation. At that time, we didn't even know why such a loud scream and a scream had arisen. It's clearer now that we see it. He also gave Telekom, according to the data contained in these contracts and in the financial plan or report, 36 million dollars for the promotion of the project "Slovenia goes on". The report, or the material we received on the table, says that the project paid off to Telekom. Maybe. But with these 36 million, a slogan was promoted "Slovenia Goes Forward" which was then used by someone other than liberal democracy. It was an accident. Either you don't or you don't. On the posters of liberal democracy in 2000 we also saw a picture, then a highly eminent, valued personality, a well-known climber who succeeded in world achievement, and all congratulations for it, but was strongly supported by Telekom in this project. And it happened at the same time to appear on the poster of liberal democracy for the elections in 2000. Or not by accident. I don't know. There must have been a connection. But one of the very concrete, understandable, and therefore much has been said about this in recent times, cases of customerism are public or now state-owned enterprises, businesses, majority state-owned companies and private companies owned and managed by members or publicly declared supporters of liberal democracy. In these relations, Telekom and Mobitel turned into this project into hundreds of millions of public funds or government funds. That's proveable. It is not a problem that, I do not know how long it has been, but practically all the time the rule of Liberal Democracy, the chief staff of the main government party and the government coalition has been employed in a private, small company. That's not a problem. The problem is that before and after his employment, this company received privileged transactions from state-owned companies. In this way, companies that could have been better and cheaper, which had better programmes, better people, had more effort, put themselves in a deprived position. I'm talking about Ultra here. It's often thought to be one company. No, no, no. The same owners, the same people who own Ultra, own seven or eight more, maybe even some other ones, but there are so many on these listed companies, which are mainly all the recipients of state grants. It's kind of a common feature. In addition, there are, of course, other companies which are recipients of these public funds. However, all other companies did not have such a privileged position to become highly technological as some are now boasting. Let us see how Ultra Mr. Golobic has become a highly profitable company. The cell phone concluded a contract for the development and co-financing of the Falco project, which is a car tracking project, Ultra now sells it under the name Talk Track. The applicants were Radiotelevision Slovenia, GMT and Mobiltel. The cell phone spent 1 billion tolars on product development. And the state co-financed it, if we add it all up, with about 100 million tolars. When the project was developed, Mobile product was transmitted by Ultra, which it copied. And the cell phone put those products that were already made in the warehouse and they're still there. And now Ultra is marketing this product under the name Talk Track. And it sold it to almost exclusively state-owned public companies, mainly after the arrival of the President of the Council of Liberal Democracy in Ultra last August. Augusta last year was this festive arrival or departure from politics. 2.9. then the Slovenian Post Office published the first invitation to rent these car tracking devices for 720 cars. A number of state-owned companies followed very quickly. Mostly a number of electrical companies. And it is just by chance that the President of the Supervisory Board of Elektra Slovenije, director of Mobilel, is a friend of Mr Golobič, with whom you also put Ultra on your feet. But Mobile also financed a Compec crafts project, which is control in base stations. The idea for this was developed with the knowledge and personnel of Mobitel. Indeed, the machines were then made by Ultra until the end. However, she never paid for the development of Mobile. More. Devices with a real value of about 100,000 tolars, and they were actually designed in Mobile, Ultra sales, think, exactly to Mobile, and at a price of over 500 thousand tolars per piece. It also installs all of this at base stations and maintains Ultra, although Mobile has its capacity. Here we have this contract, here is the pricelist for the individual components of this control system. The comparison of this pricelist with commercial prices for these products shows that prices are several times higher. But the main profit, obviously it earned the company, grew the villas, bought other companies, and apparently the owners earned something with it. Then there were additional inflows, which are also very difficult to explain in business. Here we have, let's say, one 1999 contract where Ultra charged the Cell phone for the technical documentation of about 200,000 tolars, for mounting some sensors into base stations. But the joke is that this documentation for using this system has charged 276 times. And for the instructions for use, 52 million were paid for certain devices that were otherwise placed in hardware, barely less. It's like you pay 100,000 dollars for the washing machine and 80 thousand dollars for the instructions, each one. The contract was beautifully written and paid. Where did this 52 million go? And there's a lot of these contracts. A similar approach is also in cooperation between Petrol and Ultra. There it even became entangled because they had poorly copied a device from a Dutch manufacturer that had not worked and would almost become a blemish. If we take a closer look at the example that is also mentioned in the material that some said or some of the government's clients said was not sufficiently justified, it is a call by Mail Slovenia for this car tracking device. Slovenia's post office issued its first call on 2.9th. Here we must admit that at least there was a call for action. The other companies did not mainly do so, only collected the demand. Telekom even wrote on this request that he insists on choosing anyone without the right to have any complaint from the other bidders. That's what it says on the front page. And he did it, for 800 cars he chose Ultra, of course. But the Post Office has at least issued a call. There were two other bidders who were obviously better. Still, I think Ultra was chosen. The ITS complained, the State Audit Commission cancelled the invitation to tender. They repeated the invitation, but they threw it a little. The other two didn't check in. They knew they didn't have a chance. The Director of ITS, the Intertrade Systems, who participated in the first invitation to tender and for a long time marketed this product as Ultra, said to the Finances that they had assessed that they were not to be applied for because of the changed terms and times of the invitation to tender. Director [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , which also participated in the first invitation to tender, was even clearer. [[...]] He argued that, given the situation, they had concluded that they would not have a viable chance of success through a market-based approach. And, of course, the one who did not use the market approach did succeed, but the relationship did. Probably a conversation with a man who was put on the postmaster's post earlier. Of course, the only bidder was Ultra and was chosen. Well, let's just say that this could still be tolerated, even though it shouldn't be, if it were actually a rationalisation of the Mail business. But what does the contract say? For 720 cars, mail will rent a vehicle monitoring or tracking system for three years. The post office is mainly equipped with low-quality cars. The mailmen deliver mail with the Cleotes, but cars that cost between one and two million. A lot of them are amortized. And now they're going to give, the thing is done, probably already payments are going on, on cars worth a few hundred thousand dollars, devices for which they're going to pay a few hundred thousand dollars in three years. At the price of Ultra, one car is paid for such a rental device, depending on the configuration, from 20 to 30 thousand. So, 200 to 300 grand a year. The post office could restore the fleet within three years with 300 million cars in the lower price class. Instead, the tracking devices will be placed on the Kliots, with which the Polde carries mail around Bežigrad to know where it is. I wonder if this is going to be a major rationalisation. In short, it is a harmful decision, too costly a harmful decision to the detriment of the citizens of this country who pay postal services. It is not likely that when we entered the European Union, we also experienced the promotion of postal services. I doubt that because we went to the European Union, it is more likely that the post office bought a device from Ultra that far exceeds a rational business decision. But Ultra wasn't always a high tech firm. At first they also built antenna towers, performed construction-installation works, and then moved to another company owned by the same owners, namely GIP Concrete Zasavje. And this company once became very successful, but not by the salaries of workers who are there average, but by the extra profits. Two years ago, this company had 16 million profits per employee. The employee, however, received less than 2 million wages per year. This is an absolute record in the industry.They broke, I think, among the 25 most successful companies in Slovenia after profit. 20 workers carrying out construction work. The director and co-owner of this company suddenly became a benefactor of the year in the action of Mr Tof, Sunday. And this circle was so slowly completed. There's a lot in the following companies, some listed. For each of these we can present an argument if you give us that hour. But much of what is involved in the concept of corruption and customerism is also happening in other ways. This link between those who publish and carry out public tenders, the policy of ruling parties, executive power, public companies, private companies has their own extensions elsewhere. A while ago, a few days ago, for example, in this National Assembly, we passed a law on the tax procedure which gives the tax authorities the arbitral right to reduce or write off a tax liability. And such a decision is not subject to any criteria. Now, if we link this to the results of the FDV survey, and you probably take this study into account, whose members are the leading employees in the state administration, the matter is perfectly clear. Last year's survey found that almost 40% of the members of the LDS, 25% of the members of the United List, 20% of the members of the People's Party and below 10% of those in the opposition were members of the LDS. 75% of the government's monopoly should be depoliticized. These are the people who are also making these calls. Not only will we now talk about telecommunications and Ultra, there are still a number of cases where it is possible to prove the suspicion of corruption and clientelism. To finish this with respect to Telekom and Mobile. It was first of all public companies, now it is companies owned by the majority state. The Court of Auditors has never entered these companies before. This institution has also pushed the mayor of the smallest municipality, regardless of which parties they are from, which is right, but in these two public companies where billions have crossed, this institution has never entered. There wasn't even that control. Just to be, I'll say, independent. That's weird. And then there are other cases, like, big funds going through investments from different ministries. If we start now, we will not start with Mr Kopač, who also hired car tracking devices from Ultra, but with the Ministry of the Interior. At the previous extraordinary meeting or at the meeting where we discussed the interpretation against Mr Bohinc, we discussed the case of purchasing a police boat. Twice at the same company, at the company where the leading members of the same party are such as the minister. Very obvious connection and clienteleism. But this is about someone, Mr. Zląbec, now I'm talking all the time because you gave me an hour from Liberal Democracy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u249	No, that's the wrong conclusion, Mr. Janša. A few minutes earlier, there was a delay. I was informed when I began to hold the meeting, so two more minutes, Mr Janša, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u250	There's no LDS here either, is there?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u251	I am not aware of such an accidental arrangement, but I may be able to conclude the discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u252	And right now, it's gonna get interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u253	in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you may request, Mr Janša, to conclude slowly. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u254	I can't take it easy because I have a lot left. I wanted to narrow it down to an hour as long as Mr. Kacin had given me up before. I don't know. The following example with the Ministry, led by Mr Bohinc, is the award of a public contract for the construction of a new building by the General Police Administration. It's a very big project. One of the biggest in the history of this ministry. This is where the story was similar to that of a police boat. I think a number of calls have been cancelled and so on. Finally, a company led by very distinguished people was selected. For example, one of them is the son of the president of the third government party DeSUS. And there are other names that would be very difficult to exclude from this circle. So long has been the negotiation and publication of calls for the project to receive the Sava IP. And despite the fact that the construction or start-up of the investment has slowed down, I don't know how much. So long it dragged like a police boat that the project got actually "this right". Out of these billions, which flowed into private companies' accounts, villas grew across Slovenia, and in my opinion various electoral campaigns were financed. It seems very strange to us that, after the final bill that all parliamentary parties had to submit to the competent authorities, the Liberal Democracy reported about 50 million tolls of loss last year. But this customer is just about time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u255	Mr Janša or you can finish slowly by presenting your views [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u256	Costing at least 20 million [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u257	Mr Janša, I know what you would like, but unfortunately I must warn you that the entire time you have reported to the Group of Members is in line with the increase [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u258	That's not true. We've reported much more time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u259	In accordance with the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u260	You can take my word for it, but don't say we couldn't explain what was written in the paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u261	You know, Mr Janša, the new Rules of Procedure allow for very rich discussions at the meeting of the mother's working body, yesterday was held, it lasted 9 hours. Today you're just repeating what you were there yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u262	No, no, no. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u263	Explanated. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u264	I'm not saying anything today. However, today, before performing on behalf of the government, Mr Minister read the same file as yesterday, from the first to the last word. And I'm not repeating myself. Look at the magnetogram. I'm giving other things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u265	Mr Janša, please don't ask me to warn you again, and I take your word, please, if you will finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u266	Just so we're clear, you don't give us time to explain the allegations you're saying are unclear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to the debate of MEPs and Members on materials and the proposed conclusions. Procedural proposal, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u268	Dear Vice-President, we have announced 120 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this item for the debate of the Group of Members. You gave us 54 minutes of charity. You've given liberal democracy 90 minutes. Since, of course, it is pointless to sit with your mouth tied up and not discuss it, then you have succeeded in what you wanted us to remain silent. Shut up here and listen, sorry, all kinds of debate, just problems no, just arguments and arguments no, we don't think it makes sense. From the protest that, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you have limited our time of discussion, so that we no longer have time to discuss, we leave the National Assembly at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u269	Thank you very much. You're obstructing me, as I understand it, and again you're telling me that I took something from you. I didn't take anything from you, Mr. Sugar. However, I accept, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, your explanation and the oversight of the obstruction. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group also predicts obstruction. Look, we have declared time entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure. That's 40 minutes. The president, or on behalf of the parliamentary group, spoke to Dr. Bayuk, who had only 22 minutes of time available. Many times it has been said, yes, the opposition does not elaborate sufficiently on the problem or on some point. Mr. Bajuk had to stop in the middle of it. None of the seven remaining Members came up with a word so that they could say. You took the authority of your college and took it away from us. Since we no longer have time and you no longer give it to us, we announce obstruction. I think it's a very bad sign of how colleges work in a democratic country, if it's so democratic at all. Parliament is already saying that one can speak. The College, the ruling coalition, takes the floor for Parliament. So we're announcing obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go. Then Leo the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will also speak procedurally and thank you, Madam President, that you have been pleased to notice that we too want to say something, because I raised my hand first, but you do not think it is worth looking at this side, but it seems that your view is drawing you ever more to the right. In the Slovenian National Party, we had a lot of very important arguments prepared. We don't speak in mind and all our things and all the facts we have are backed up with papers, with documents. And you didn't let me tell you how Slovenian railways are 35 billion tolars that they got from the country with the debt write-offs, where they're going to put them. They will convert or turn them into equity, and it is 500 000, in short, by half a million paid workers. You don't care. It's not about any, I don't know, it's a normal thing for you. How can you do such a thing so as not to say that in Slovenia there are pigs in some segments. Why don't you allow it and why you won't let me tell you that there will also be some new locomotives in the program. EUR 80 million worth of business have been set up for a future buyer of Freight Transport d.o.o., which has not yet been set up, in such a way that the state will lend to the Slovenian Railway Holding to buy locomotives that will then leave to the private company, but will remain at the burden of repaying these debts. Don't let that happen. You have taken our word and, on your own account, you determine what the opposition can do and what the opposition cannot do, and I will only talk about the Slovenian National Party. We have not embarked on any other debate, but we have processed one particular segment to be precise and you have not allowed us to say this to the preciseness of the subject here. A man wonders what you wanted to do with it. We have had specific issues regarding irregularities and we intend to open them despite the threats of some individuals from the Slovenian Railways, what to say and what to say, I don't know what, but a whole series of colloquials. I think it will be necessary to institute or initiate any criminal charges on this segment, because otherwise we will not do anything. Although we doubt in the Slovenian National Party that our judiciary, for the first time, will be the police to investigate the matter, because it is being led by the Minister of the United List, who is in the coalition, in the second instance we doubt that the Slovenian judiciary will be able to carry out anything. The Slovenian national party has already initiated certain procedures that have not moved by the millimeter specified in the point. Maybe now we have a new secretary. I hope we'll see. However, why is it not allowed to clear up the matter in this segment in Parliament which is set up for this purpose? Do you want things to go on the road? Do you want 500 thousand Slovenian workers and workers to have to pay 70,000 tolls out of their pockets to cover only what the state will forgive the railways and leave in private? Do you want people to go to the roads and tear the cubes out of the pressure and throw the dice around? Let's be sober and let us talk in here. And because you don't let us talk, we also predict obstruction and thank you very much for this constructive dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I personally advise you, Mr Jelinčič, to base the evidence on backpacks and on the prosecution and the police at this time. I invite you to take the floor for a procedural proposal from Mr Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u274	President, I am procedurally suggesting that he does not allow himself to use the procedure for something that is not. Firstly, I explain this procedural proposal. Restricted not only SDS, NSI and SNS, but in the conclusion of the College of All Member Groups. Time is limited for all parliamentary groups. Another time. For the second time today, I am looking for gentler words, but I find it difficult to find, in such a way that the SDS and NSI and SNS use their time to the end to predict obstruction. It's not an obstruction. The obstruction should then begin at the beginning, but they say exactly up to a minute and five minutes later, which of course they go to. But let them leave, it's no big deal if they leave. The dialogue is allowed to everyone the same. And that's what the college concluded. For this reason, I protest against this way, which deceives people, misleads the public and, of course, introduces into this Parliament some methods that are not worthy of this Parliament. I don't care if anyone in the opposition gets angry or not. We're justifiably angry, I'm justifiably angry because we're dealing with things that have nothing to do with it. But that I will not now exploit, protest, and this is my procedural proposal not to be allowed in this session, not in the future, to drive in this way, for example, obstructions that have nothing to do with obstruction, because first they spend time and then they go away and predict obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the debate of MEPs and Members on materials and the conclusions proposed, as I have already said before. My word to Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u276	It's my turn. He gave up his colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. After a long time, it was my turn. Otherwise, I do not understand my fellow Member Kremjar that he is so mature, given that his fellow Members of the opposition have spent their allowed time at the college, even though he would say that in such important substantive issues and in the words of corruption and some other words, this Parliament could devote little time. I will talk about the content and also about some of the things that have been initiated by Members here today. I am also surprised that for such an important session as today, the transmission was not agreed on by the Slovenian national media, RTV Slovenia. For tomorrow it is announced, but I think the public has the right to be informed both on the left and on the right, both by those who say that corruption is present, and by those who say that corruption is not present. At the same time, I accepted the presentation by Mr Kacin's representative of Liberal Democracy, who spoke with some concrete data, who had all the contracts with some companies and who had asked for all the funding. Does this mean that those who come from the opposition or from the right or from any other party should not be sent or asked for donor funds from those companies owned by the State and where the other option rules? I could almost understand my colleague Kacin, and I don't know how the director of Mobile or Telekom would accept me if he picked up the phone, but I would say, please, if you were to provide me with information or a contract on this and what he had concluded with you, just like he did with a fellow member of the LDS, when he picked up the phone, and he called the director of one company asking for specific information. I have never afforded this, my dear fellow, to ask any of the directors who would be at the head of the state-owned enterprise to do so for specific information, as was done by my fellow Member, Kacin. I could understand that it's political pressure on Director Telekom or Director Mobil. And blasphemy to all of us, to those of us who think otherwise, and not to talk about it. For some, of course, it will be funny, but when you go analytically to this request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Slovenian National Assembly, signed by 25 Members, I have noticed some major shortcomings. As a member of the opposition right now, I hope to speak up and say this publicly. Not a single name and word is mentioned in this then President, LDS political party, Dr Janez Drnovšek. Not a single name. As far as I've been able to teach and read what you can find on the LDS website, about the rules of the LDS game, what the job is and who performs the presidency of the Council, the secretary and what the president of the party is doing, who is responsible for the situation as the signed 25 Members in this regard are clear. Who? President of the party. At that time, the party's president was current president, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. And I would also expect the applicants to have, in at least one word, the responsibility of the President of the State, who was then the Prime Minister and at the same time the President of the Liberal Democracy, to bear responsibility for such a situation. He's not here. Interestingly, there was no mention of the party's Vice-President, Igor Bavčar, who is now the director of a large economic company, in this paper with any name and surname. It also bears responsibility because I am convinced that those who were at the top of the LDS, including Gregor Golobic, were first responsible for his work, for his position within the party's president. And if I signed a document like that, I'd probably add these things. It's a big game. More than that, however, I am very surprised that the law enforcement authorities would be asking what has been going on since the request of this extraordinary meeting to this material, what the law enforcement authorities have done, including the police and the prosecution. Why am I saying this? I'm speaking because in the previous government, he has afforded himself a defence minister to buy an apartment from the finance of the Ministry of Defense, not from the government. And the article in the media was published, requested an investigation on the basis of the article. Today, on the basis of such or other articles and suspicions, no one is asking for an investigation. That's a big question. There it was an apartment that went from the Ministry of Defence's resources, and at the same time from the state budget, from the same treasury, the procedure was not as it should have been, through the government, through the Ministry, and it was the prosecution's reaction in the first place. Although it is clear to me that this prosecutor was sympathetic as a friend from the LDS summit today, he has a very important function and is also mentioned here. And then no one will convince me when we talk about the impact of policy on certain decisions of the state authorities and on certain decisions of whose other authorities. I don't want to go into separate indents and statements on a substantive basis right now. I believe that the data provided by both the applicants and some other individuals have been specific enough to give rise to the suspicion that the individual authorities will react. That the indications are rejected or confirmed or that the procedure is initiated. At one of the previous points, my colleague Potrzy also told me that we were in the government and we were with the human resources policy. I didn't get a chance to answer that question. But since this is the same point, for the same content, for the second point, Comrade Potch, I must answer you, it is true. We were in the government. We fought, but neither you nor the LDS took us for equal partners, nor for human resources matters, so there was more than a coalition dispute in this area that some prominent representatives of the LDS admitted that they or that you needed us in the government just to ensure a two-thirds majority in some constitutional changes. Unfortunately, what happened was that, because of our principled hold of the rocks, they "washed" out of the government because they had been erased. And we accept it as we have accepted it. Now you're ruling. You're just ruling. This does not mean, however, that certain things in this country that come on a day or when suspicions are made must be accepted in one way or another. I'll say a simple, painful problem. I have nothing against Gregor Golobich. He's a politician and he's in the economy now. It won't be long before he's probably moved to one of the major firms in Dolenjska, so he needs one transition from politics to go to the economy, the lady won't be seen by the opposition or the media as a big boss. He had the opportunity to buy a job apartment at a fair price. We can't even deny it. The director of the police also bought an apartment or a state apartment. But when you listen to some other people, for example, when I hear Professor Bojano, who is a single mother, when she wants to buy a work apartment from the state to fix her apartment problem, and because she was formerly under the Ministry of Home Affairs, but now she's under the Ministry or under the University of Maribor as a university, she doesn't have this option or a knock can go to any door, but no one takes five minutes to listen to her problems and problems. For example, the police and the state have 40 or 60 flats free and empty. Because she is not a civil servant because she has no political influence because she cannot convince or abuse anyone, she cannot do so in a fair way as a simple citizen. This isn't right and it's not fair. I'll be honest with you. And when I've reached the previous point, and I'm talking about the LDS, I don't mean some fellow Members sitting here today in the Chamber, and I have a pretty good opinion about them. And if anyone thinks that when I talk about LDS, I think about every member of LDS the worst. No, no, no. It is true, however, that the LDS summit has had its political power both in human resources policy for many years, although some in the National Assembly have been mocking me when I have been alerting me to this centralisation, the centralisation of staff, which in some ways allows such or other business to take place in these companies. If decentralisation or some other political options within the coalition could be allowed to recruit people who are capable of such an important function, including in the supervisory boards of such important companies and some others, believe me, there would be half as little of what we have today. However, these options have not been provided. They are not given because if someone wants to control some things, they need to be concentrated in exactly one or two people's political options. And this is a very dangerous game. This is a very dangerous game and falls for you, according to my fellow Members, who I have a good opinion on some. And when we talk in the hallways, you realize that this is a problem, that it is a problem for all parties when they are in power, that you have one or the other. But even more so is allowing all power to be concentrated in one person, especially in the field of human resources. Through staff, you can manage such public finances, the economy and all the politics you currently have in your hands. The Secretary-General of the Government was also mentioned today, which is also mentioned here as well as his sympathy with Senica's lawyer. And it's normal for you to be friends to help each other. However, it is not normal, but it is not normal that if a person is involved in this affair, in the second, in the third, everywhere, he was present to perform such an important function. And then I remember that the then Prime Minister in the coalition initially promised the President of the Slovenian People's Party, Franco Zagozno, that Mirko Bandelj would not be the Prime Minister General. However, he was appointed, despite the fact that the Vič-Holmec affair resulted in his being dissolved in the previous mandate of the Minister's chair as Minister of the Interior. However, if this concentration of personnel, which allows such suspicions to occur, I look ahead, I will say in concrete terms with one simple political measure or a measure taken by the Government and also by this national assembly through the law, look at this. Is this fair to some other citizens or citizens? When the motorways around Ljubljana were built, I have nothing against Ljubljana, the capital being the first to demand, all the municipalities that are rich municipalities received compensation for the building land. When it was built here because the minister had changed because the political option had been strengthened because someone from here had an interest, the law changed that municipalities, poor municipalities against Prekmurje, against Styria, where the highway is built, no longer get substitutes for building land. Not to mention how much of this compensation for the building’s land is deprived of only the city of Maribor through Malečnik or Municipality of Pesnica through the highway of Pernico. For 800 million. Is that fair to these people? This has happened, believe me, solely because of two, three people who have changed their eyes and wanted to concentrate most of the capital in such a way as to drive this money through some other investments. I don't think it makes any sense that we're here today trying to talk, because it's been really hard to convince lately in this country someone who doesn't come from this option or anything. Be sure, my fellow Members, what does that mean? What does this mean when the Minister, who received the political monopoly, invented that hydroelectric energy holding should be concentrated with the Drava power plants in the centre of Ljubljana and thus concentrated capital and investment. And all the money that comes from the revenues of the Drava power plants is right here. And at the previous point, today we have discussed similar things, believe me, because of such political moves by individuals who want to concentrate capital, politics, public finances and some other financial transfers, there is a much greater possibility that certain powers will be misused or that such or other corruption will be used. The basis for corruption has always been good economic or political ties, capital control, economic control and political power. While some of the former coalitions are funny, laughing and coming from such an area that if they look around their valleys, and if they look around their businesses, they can find that they are in a strong minority and that in fact there will be a long time left for the European light to shine bright yellow in their valley with a blue flag. Some things, honourable fellow Members, are very questionable when a person asks himself why the President of the State, or the then Prime Minister, was not mentioned, who was certainly responsible for some of the work mentioned here today in this report. He was president of the LDS and also Prime Minister for many years. Well, believe me, I don't want to give that name to the president of the country now. When it comes to the client, when it comes to the individual, when it comes to the system in its entirety, it is necessary to start at the head and go to the tail. He knows who was at the head of the LDS at the time and how. If there's another game here, you might ask yourself. It is a very interesting question, however, that the two top representatives in the previous system, who have been very long active within the LDS in this request for an emergency meeting concerning corruption, have not found themselves. However, I am sure that I know for one thing that he was very involved in a case that fell mainly in 1996 and 1997 with a political decision, but I will not operate on names and surnames now because I find it unfair to those who are not in this room. But what's happening is happening. As colleague Kacin mentioned today Mail Slovenia, Director, is no secret, the Director of Post Slovenia was a pensioner, he received a pension, came on the basis of membership in LDS and links with some of the LDS summits mentioned here, back to the director. Surely, the need for every postman and every vehicle to be equipped with an electronic vehicle monitoring device is that I am sure they do not hold back and that it is a move where the political boors who want to ensure the influx are able to make economic profits for some of the companies mentioned here today. If I mentioned any other director, all directors are fine coming from the left if it happened to come from the right, we'd probably have the worst opinion today. I have not yet heard in my eight-year term in the National Assembly that either from LDS or in the last four years from the United Nations has been ready to say yes, our man is either ready to accept some responsibility or guilt. We have taken responsibility as the Slovenian People's Party for our decision on the vote on deleted and voting in both ministers, and there are other responsibilities. It's just a painting and a mirror of our democracy. I hope that those who follow us to this Chamber will have a slightly better opportunity and greater opportunity for democratic performances, and that there will be no such differences as has occurred today, that those who have made a request have announced obstruction of the point after their time. On some important substantive issues, it is also necessary to have a little more hearing at the College of the President of the National Assembly and to give some an opportunity. It is true, once again, that those who have left this meeting today, once again, I stress that they have been the partners of such rules of procedure and are also now carrying their part of the responsibility, even though some of us as members of the ruling coalition have been opposed to such rules of procedure and to such a way of working in the national assembly. Parliament is a means where citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as all others who follow the policy of the Republic of Slovenia, have the right to hear different opinions and to have their say. I would therefore like to conclude my performance and give some other fellow Members the opportunity to spend these five minutes. However, I think and expect that the authorities responsible for this will translate some of the references made here today by the proposer thoroughly. If I am in the Chamber, I will support three points, three conclusions proposed by the proponents. I think that none is problematic because it calls on the Attorney-General's Office to report to the National Assembly by 5 June at the latest on the findings of the corruption investigation. I don't think there's anything wrong with it or not. He should also play his part by the new chairman of the Commission, who, although supported only on the left, but no matter who elected him, show himself to do his work as he swore on that stage 14 days ago, for whom he would work as chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Most of the parliamentary groups that have remained in Parliament have expressed the desire to conclude this agenda today. That is why I invite Mrs Majdo Shirca to the floor. Here you go. Mr Podobnik, I apologize, Mr Pahor has informed me that most of the groups of Members want us to end this point today. Only messages I sincerely apologize to you, I was sure that Mr Pahor also spoke to you, Mr Podobnik. [[...]] Mr. Sponik, it's obviously a misunderstanding. Mr. Parallel, that's just not right, really not right. My word to Mrs. Majdo Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u280	Respectable present and absent! The ones you may listen to, but in your offices sent. I understand the delegation's mandate, and I think I am not alone in trusting the electorate and the electorate to deal with legislative and national-level issues in a responsible manner. What I have been forced and suppressed by such debates lately is far from the legislative branch of power. And it's even further from the state-of-the-art. On the contrary, such a search for votes or a loss, of course, that is a question, I think in some way the exploitation of our mandates. I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor, and I'm not a cop. I am not invited to participate in a national commission of inquiry, which would possibly be the only and only possible outlet for questions, as cited by the citing party. Even the LDS or some other party could open up a wide range of topics four months before the elections about suspected corruption and so-called illegal, rather legitimate stories. I could - and given that in some way the whole discussion is going in this direction, I have found them myself - cited one example where the LDS would, in fact, or someone else would legitimately require the clearance of certain cases and here, with all the peace of mind, I can mention at least one, this is the so-called affair of computer purchases and the suspicion of abuse of power in the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the time that Mr Jože Zagozhen was Minister, and at a time when Mr Janša was Chairman of the Human Resources Commission of the Government. Whoever has a better memory may recall that the then Minister, former Member and now Councillor in the Ljubljana municipality, Jože Zagozhen, ordered the purchase of computers for more than 100 million tolars, without a call. I also have to say that I am putting myself in a role, in some way the forced role of the plaintiff, the judge and the police officer also because these cases have been touched today, but of course on the other hand. At that time, the Ministry of the Economy avoided and prepared, used or broke the value of hundreds of millions into ten contracts, even though it was a single contract. Money from prepaid computer equipment was more than 40% higher than other possible prices on the market - and because there was no invitation to tender, of course these were not verified - the Ministry of Economy sent or translated into the accounts of companies associated with the SDS party. For those of you who do not have a good memory, according to a model of colleagues who have been very fond of drawing family budget trunks and other graphs in similar debates, I will also present myself a list or a series of such stories, which have been completely illegal and illegal, or which has already received an epilogue in court, in fact in the only area where such cases have been resolved or received an epilogue in court. It is a circle that began with the name of Mr Janša in the then so-called Bajuk government, which has a common point of contact with two companies, namely the d.o.o Zebra and the d.o.o.o., Jelen d.o.o., the first subcontractor of the SDS electoral campaign, and the second managed by the brother of Mr Janša, director of then Jelen d.o.o., Rajko Janša. And whoever has a better memory can remember that these two companies are supposed to make contracts with Iskra Computer. It is supposed to be fictitious contracts or quasi purchases of business gifts based on the difference in absolute overpaid equipment and this difference was more than 40 million value. In this way, an electoral campaign is supposed to be co-financed. Individual payments are supposed to leave the company in cash. In short, the budget money is to be illegally poured into the political party's favour. The abuse of the official position is also expected to take place. Of course, who remembers well, she also knows that Minister Petrinova did not want to take over the ordered and already paid equipment later, because the regulations of the Ministry of Finance prohibit payment to state institutions before the order was made, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs did so at that time. I will not summarize at this time the second part of the round, which also starts with the Prime Minister's Human Resources Commission President and runs through Telekom and through household purchases, gifts worth more; more than 70 million SIT, which was also connected to d.o.o. Jelen Rajka Janša or more with a later second company, Promart Design, whose seat is also on Prešernov 82 in Grosuplje and whose leader or director is the brother of our fellow Member. I'm not gonna untangle this. After all, I have stressed that I do not think or understand my mission as one who would take on the role of judge and police officer or prosecutor. Nor will I continue to talk about fictitious gifts, for all I can say is that such gifts always display an account and in the long run they certainly do. But I'd still like to point out at least two things in the end. In some ways, there are many times in this room, and in fact today, when we have re-declared the income tax, we are talking about the role of sponsors, the role of those companies that are developed and strong and that can also come in from an economic point of view in those cases where the state cannot or cannot. And then these sponsors can, both in the field of health, education, not talking about culture and other activities, simply by their entrepreneurial power and decisions, replace the gaps or lack of the state budget. I wonder whether such debates in this form, as they are happening, have raised some doubts in future sponsors before they decide whether they will continue to invest in any deficit branch of our activities. I also wonder who else will want to deal with politics in the future if it has a greater negative sign every day, and when every exit or transition from politics, or even entry into politics, will have an omen of dirty and corrupt activities. And I also wonder, of course, after Mr Janez Janš's speech, whether today anyone will want to be developed, advanced and, of course, competitive, because, according to his speech, Slovenia should strive for underdevelopment, for handicrafting, for the greatest possible manipulation and for non-ambitious development. Only in this way would everyone be satisfied that I am not even talking about Europe. And in the end, let me summarize. The public and seemingly free LDS tribunals could also open such cases, which I have only mentioned in part today, and could also refer to extraordinary meetings themselves. They don't! Because we separate the simple powers of our mandates; because this is not our mission; because we are sent here to fight, but we can coordinate, we can negotiate the vital interests of this country. But unfortunately, I'm getting more and more aware that we're almost not doing this anymore. In the name of a highly-extensive democracy, in some way you urge your colleagues in the absence of common interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u281	Thank you very much. May I have Mrs. Potter's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In their written explanation, the proposers of the request for an extraordinary meeting referred to a number of contentious data, and certainly to at least one non-truth. That is, at the time of the President of its administration, Telekom should have entered into a sponsoring agreement with Jozet Jagodnik, Member of the United List of Social Democrats. It is obvious that the public is being misled because it is clear that Telekom and the Football Club of Maribor have concluded the sponsorship contract, not Telekom with the current president of the Football Club of Maribor, as some today would like to show it or sincerely wish it to be. It is more than obvious that the mentioning of this sponsoring contract is one of the more than 100 sponsoring contracts, as proposed by the applicants, related to the fact that Jože Jagodnik was not a member of the parliamentary group who, after the year, would have been the candidates of this item on the agenda. How else can we explain the fact that the same company, Telekom, concluded a sponsorship contract with the Maribor Football Club even at a time when someone else was in the leading position of the company, which was put there by the Bajuk government, also some of the loud candidates of this point. In addition, it must be recalled in general that, at the time of the conclusion of the sponsorship agreement, the United List of Social Democrats was in opposition and not in government. Or perhaps this mention of the name Jožet Jagodnik is simply about the fact that the first was signed under 27 issues relating to arms trafficking, indeed, already during the 1992/1996 term. Who knows?Oh, my God! In 1999, the Football Club Maribor, as the first Slovenian football club, was unfortunately the only one to be included in the league of football champions and was honorably represented not only Maribor, but also Slovenia. It is not possible to forget the then football enthusiasm throughout Slovenia, and I believe that among the enthusiasts there was also one of the candidates for this point, and interestingly, no one at the time felt it was worth or appropriate to warn in the way and the amount of funding in the Maribor Football Club. Maybe next to the end. Such untruths and accusations by the applicants are harmful to all those who try daily to obtain sponsorship not only in sports but also in culture, science and elsewhere, as well as to all sponsors, as this implies that someone will misrepresent their name and reputation. The consequences of their behaviour, it seems, have not been considered. Clearly, it was more important that before the elections, they undermine everyone after each other and in front of each other. Otherwise, promoters of this material and promoters of such perceptions should ask people in Maribor whether it is right or not that their football club has received some sponsoring money. Last but not least: whether it's right or wrong that the sponsoring money goes to the public good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u283	Thank you very much. He wants a word, Mr. Lenko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, colleague and colleague. I must say that when I read these documents, which were delivered to us and under the title "these charges", I have been thinking about how this extraordinary session came to be today. Indeed, these were suggested to us by some suspicions, which certainly are not enough to deal with such serious treatment and to devote our time to this problem all afternoon. Instead of being proud of companies such as Telekom, Mobile Patudi Ultra and if we have accepted the market economy, then I do not really see the real reason why the signatories decided to try these companies in some way to "suffer" and to get them on that average where they don't belong. These companies are a clear vision, with their development programs, with modern technology and I think we should be proud if Debitil, as a representative or as a German firm, is testing some things with Mobile. In the presentation of the parliamentary groups, as have individual representatives here, we have heard these things and I do not think we should allow the National Assembly to turn into an investigative commission. In fact, we have bodies that are investigating some suspicions and this is also - then perhaps the Minister of Justice will also tell us - they have been involved, at least according to information so far, as we have received them, they have been involved and let us wait for them to explore something. However, if we are assessing that this is such a need, then let us set up an investigative commission to deal with the investigation, even then question the individual participants in this under the term 'accused', not that the entire Parliament is now dealing with this today virtually all day. To conclude, I think that the only thing that matters is that, yesterday, the Internal Policy Committee adopted two conclusions and I also support those two conclusions adopted yesterday on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u285	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u286	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues for the raised voice from before, but I have to say that this kind of abuse really gets me somewhere, as you've heard where I've been. Some information. Newspapers need to be able to read, too. The chronic evidence that we have heard about the study today, of course, will get another picture if we read it, at least this article, a little in advance. This is evidence of how Slovenia fell last and so on - it is true that in one category of research, but it is not mentioned that after the same survey, real growth in Slovenia's overall productivity is at 15th place, real growth in exports, commercial services at 9th place and does not directly invest in gross domestic product at 4th place. Don't mention it. Do not mention that the same article states that it also participates in the Institute of Economic Research in Slovenia and that Peter Stanovnik of this Institute said, among other things, that he believes that the difficulty in drawing up the scale is the balance between research and market economic data and in choosing the size of samples in different countries, and that the results should therefore be assessed with a lot of scepticism - writes in this same article. It points out also the methodological changes that make comparisons difficult, and so on, that this is a research that is essentially done by Slovenian economists, and that one of Slovenia's prominent economists, Mr Bine Kordesh, says: our inclusion in the Institute's research - in this same article of the Institute of IMD - is linked to the recognised self-criticism of Slovenians. Our entrepreneurs in the polls prefer to respond even more black-sightedly, among other countries, for example, in the Czech Republic and Hungary, to all the weights – among others. We do not say or say, and it is obvious that we have, as far as corruption is concerned, of course, some other information that we have an international non-governmental organisation that evaluates 12 independent research and compares it and we get data from Slovenia in the 25th-30th place on these research and is among the best, positive, among the transition countries. Let us say that two months ago, the European Commission estimated that Slovenia was moderately burdened and so on by corruption. We could count a lot more. Of course no one, and I'm not saying that there's no corruption and I don't know. But I say something else; I say that there is no room for this debate by Parliament. The space for this is the prosecution, the police, the courts, the state, the rule of law, which must function and anyone who knows what kind of matters must also press charges. And in my judgment, not an unknown person's accusation, if we've heard different names here today. Just one more thing. Television and television. Of course, it all makes sense, a few months before the elections and television, because that's what you watch. That the problem in this – today, while we were working here, a press conference was also convened, where all three representatives are said to be SNS, SDS and NSI, according to the agency, indignant at TV Slovenia's decision not to transfer an emergency session. Among other things, Comrade Drobnic estimated that if things are going in a similar direction on TV Slovenia in the future, it will be necessary to abolish the subscription through which most of the above-mentioned television is financed and so on. My colleague Janš said that the payment of the subscription would have to be cancelled and so on and so on. Let me finish. These cases, which have been written down, some of them have already been mentioned, do other things than political damage, do other things. And it hurts me particularly - it's damage in sport, it's damage in culture, it's damage in one normal relationship that needs to be regulated, and no one advocates things that are messy. They do damage in such a way that much, much will be, and the sponsoring money of real, real, booked, such, according to procedures as it must be, will no longer occur to sport. It will not come if we know that sport is financed by Slovenia about 20% only from public funds. Everything else is sponsored and similar funds. It will not be because of this, we have already heard this today, because people will simply not allow themselves to be harmed and their good name and to do business damage in these debates, which do not belong to this Parliament in my judgment. And we'll see what the consequences are. I guarantee you that - I can't prove it, even here there are people who won't hope - and the sons of some politicians - to sign any contracts or someone with them because it's a random politician. And these young, good athletes will go abroad. And they'll sign there peacefully because they're worthy of sponsoring contracts. In Slovenia, however, no one will hope to sign a contract with them, because tomorrow can be a pranger, he may be in this Parliament, as I do not know what he has done, although nothing but benefit has been done. And that's the damage we do. And that's not why I'm here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The signatories gathered, signed the request for an extraordinary meeting, said what they wanted to say or could say at a limited time, which we also have Members and Members of the coalition parties, and then left the Chamber without listening to our opinions, our views on matters, on the topics they opened. I think that this is unrealistic, that this is incorrect, and that even a coalition in this way should not land in the future. That's why I'm giving up the debate myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Cheligo to the floor. You want a word? No, no, no. I'll take Mr. Wolf's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm thinking if you hadn't joined my colleague Kontić, because, really, I'm sorry that the fellow Members from my left didn't stay here - and it's not worth it. After all, we said a lot on the committee, and if they don't want to listen to us, our arguments - to whom should I speak? Alone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga isn't either. I invite Mr. Jakic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Look, I'm only asking two questions. What has the opposition been doing to some successful Slovenian companies for three weeks now, and who is interested in doing so? In my opinion, the callers want to discredit or lower the reputation of successful companies, such as Ultra from Zagorje, who with young and capable people who have knowledge and with their high-tech patents have penetrated almost all the continents of this world. By the way, most of the state aid that Ultra received from the country was to protect these patents, with which the cruel world of competition in the field of "high techa" succeeded. And who did Ultra step on her foot? We didn't hear that today. Ultra's footing was the American multinational Videruth, who's involved in oil programs, and it's basically measuring probes. And where did this multinational get on her toes? In South-Eastern Europe, where competitive Ultra is more successful in obtaining business. And see if I read in this context one of the directors who sent a letter to President Borut Pahor here says: "We have never forwarded this letter to the media, to any Member group, to an individual Member or to an improper body, nor have we informed anyone about it, except the United States Embassy in Ljubljana." And, of course, I call on the Chairman of the Security Intelligence Commission, Mr Jerovska, to check if it is not an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly that the United States Embassy has convened in truth to protect its company, as I have already called Videruth, which is a multinational and which route in South-Eastern Europe is a firm that is a reputable Ultra. Similarly the opposition, of course some in the SDS consciously in my opinion, and others, because they have been so misled, also helps in another case of foreign companies. Of course it's Vodafone Simobil. As you know, of course, the English own Mobilcom, which is Austrian and this is Simobili. Again, it is a foreign multinational who is trying to destroy the Slovenian company with dumped prices right now, and this is Mobil. While SDS assistance to foreign companies in conflict with Slovenian companies is well known, it is important to recall the alleged assistance in lobbying Dr. Brejc with the foreign company Interbrew against our Pivovarno Laško, reported by the media, and I was informed in the European Parliament about this. To help Interbrew, it also suggests that one of the 40 most important SDS people on their website, who was who, was then the director of the Fructala, who was owned by the Pivovarna Union. And of course, something has already been said today about how the Union’s Brewery has been widely published in the newspaper Democracy. And I'm closing with questions. Is it true that only the LDS coalition, the United List and DeSUS are stubbornly protecting the interests of Slovenian companies, while others care about the Slovenian-national interest, with which they are otherwise very proud? And does this political pre-election game allow for damage to successful Slovenian companies? Can't SDS or signatories really deal with the Golobic and LDS with the program they're still looking for in the dark, hard shadow of the shadow ministers? Of course, I would like to see it decided first by the competent authorities. And it is right that the SDS filed, if I am, rightly informed, a lawsuit or an appeal. However, it is not right for the national assembly or any body of the legislative branch to discuss this before the judgment on this is final. And by doing so, I repeat what my colleague Kacin said is particularly damaging to Slovenian companies that are successful in foreign markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Yuri to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u294	Thank you. I get up and sit down right now because I'm joining my colleagues who have announced that there's no point in continuing this meeting after the initiators have left it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Schwagan's word with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope you understand that the debate itself cannot be cancelled because I am also the mayor of the Zagorje municipality, and today there are seven successful companies mentioned. Of course, I am one of those mayors who appreciates every job and such discussions as we hear in this House today, I am sure that they have a negative impact on business, both in Slovenia and, above all, we like to boast on the European scale. This is where Ultra was mentioned. You may have seen some extensive material. Secondly, all political parties or Members and only one Member attended. Unfortunately, even today, when the opposition left the premises, she did not want to hear it. In a way: they throw it in the public eye, and then they leave, and they don't want to listen to those who have such and other information about these companies. Of course, the opposition has repeatedly stressed successful companies, including Studio Moderna, you know how they acted against this successful company from Zagorje. After they shut down the TET3 project. I will not speak more broadly today, because I am sure that there will be many extraordinary meetings at the expense of Ultra, successful companies, both in Slovenian and in the Sava scale. I'm just personally happy because all these companies perform with a clear vision, a program, they're young workers and workers. However, it is absolutely necessary to say that the numbers are explicitly listed, the successes are listed, and it is right for law enforcement authorities to do their work or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] but not that they also run an election campaign within Parliament and harm those who are successful in both the European and the American markets. [[...]] Of course, I would slowly conclude my discussion, mainly in terms of - because today also came the "Zagorian octopus" in the newspapers, namely a beautiful photograph, but unfortunately it is a photograph from the municipality of Trbovlje, but it is a beautiful bus that leads to the valley of Zagorje. I can also say that I am proud of this bus, which is owned by Integral Zagorje. But what I have to say about Ultra itself is that the political loon would not doubt today's meeting, how to act against Ultra, against successful companies, especially, I would say, put down the cross to Gregor Golobic, who we know is feared by the opposition as much as the vampire is afraid of the cross. Well, LDS is proud of him and of all the Zagor or Zava companies and this Zagreb bus is still going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u297	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I'm gonna cut my own gig. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is not right for me, either, that our colleagues are not on the right side of our Parliament, so the performance will be shorter. However, I would like to point out that their proposals for interpolation and referendums, for the resignations of ministers and for the convening of extraordinary meetings, all of this was at the expense of the state budget, of the millions of tolars that have thus disintegrated and become nothing. Apparently, the opposition did not hold back from waiting for an official electoral campaign for the European and national constituencies, but launched a pre-election campaign months earlier. There was a fire in the roof today. As soon as the opposition SDS, Nova Slovenija and Slovenian National Party found that there was no direct transmission on the other network of national television, they immediately called a press conference and wept in front of television cameras. So far, national television has served them, obviously not, since international contracts for the transfer of the World Hockey Championships have priority. The treaties must be implemented, the obligations must be fulfilled, even if at the expense of the free pre-election campaign of the Slovenian Coalition. The opposition will obviously have to improve its programming scheme in order to become more interesting than winter sports in the spring. I was also very excited about the Ministry of Economy's material, where a list of recipients of state aid was published on public tenders. In 2002 they received a subsidy from 103 companies in Slovenia for their research activity. How could you suggest today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly between these two find the only Ultra? Of course, because Gregor Golobich was obviously too much of a magnet! By 2004, several hundred companies, small, large and medium-sized enterprises, had received similar subsidies in the country. Among them you stigmatized only the prospective young company Ultra. I recall the previous term when we adopted in the National Assembly the so-called Technology Tolar Act, which sang fame both in the coalition and in the opposition, but today you are problematic in helping companies to develop research activities, promoting the internationalisation of businesses, promoting exports of small and medium-sized enterprises and subsidies to promote technological development. Or sponsoring contracts, which have already been discussed. You've only found five cases in hundreds of sponsoring contracts. Just why they deserved your attention - so that you could inequitablely point directly to the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Insinuation without chance. What's wrong with sponsoring or donating? Both sponsors, mostly economic societies, as sponsors, various societies, institutions and individuals in the field of sport, culture and art, conclude contracts with both sides, if we can say so. However, these contracts must be implemented and recorded in black on white and are public documents. It would be very good for the applicants to read a specific study entitled Economics of Culture and learn more about sponsorship and not to criminalise and associate with corruption. It is important to know that the World Sponsorship Fund in 2002 amounts to nearly $24 billion, of which almost $10 billion is the United States of America and 7.1 billion in Europe. In the United States, for example, sport is the most attractive sponsoring investment, which surpasses all other areas by 67%. There is something similar in Slovenia. The most interesting sponsoring area is sport, and it is precisely these cases that you have apostropheed the applicants of today's extraordinary meeting. Far behind is culture and art, not to mention charity events and science and education. Who else will want to sponsor it if it's on your black lists? Don't you realize that by doing this, you're going to reduce any of the small funds for sport, culture, art and other areas? Thank you very much and apologize for the longer performance, but I've cut it short.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Komljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u300	Thank you very much. What we are listening to only confirms the realization that our Parliament unfortunately has an unconstructive opposition in modest exceptions. The way in which companies, institutions, individuals we listen to shows powerlessness and the simplest, the simplest pre-election activity. Rather than constructively challenge government programmes or propose programmes that are weak or that have not yet been prepared, the opposition is witnessing slander, the accusations that have passed regular procedures that are common in a democratic society. Of course, the opposition finds an excuse for its work and exploits the National Assembly, which in these cases has only a supervisory function and not even a judicial one, in the claim that almost all are connected to the ruling party and are completely corrupt. Yesterday, we even listened to the committee's claim that even bankruptcy administrators were connected to the ruling suit, that is, the judicial branch of power. I am convinced that in this national assembly, we have much more to do in this mandate than such discussions. No one claims that there is no corruption or other harmful phenomena to which you state them, but the way you do it, without real evidence, you exist businesses and individuals, you perform in the national assembly of public lynching and you do irreparable damage not only to those institutions and individuals, but also to our country. On the other hand, the opposition has no merit and no responsibility for running and developing the country, except for the European projects where it participated constructively. A global political analyst wrote: "There is no political party in the world that, in its extreme, would sell even its own country to take power."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u301	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Vice President. Those who would ever visit this hall from the outside would probably find the scene ridiculous. Those who signed this document before us have left the hall. This has also been joined by the People's Party, which is not in the opposition because we still have all its state secretaries in the government. Here we tell each other something, and from the darkest corner of the hall we are accompanied by Mr Janša. He probably controls us in the same way that he did it in the country, we have to admit, he excites me that every moment every company, every state authority has every document that happens. Isn't that unusual to you? The system that this is obviously ours, my government doesn't control. And that this government in the shadows is not just a shadow government, it's a system that controls this country in parallel. Even all confidential documents for them are not confidential and nothing happens. On the one hand, it excites us all together, that these are capable people, but it bothers me, if long ago -- the story of these things being read to us by people who don't have an answer for the billions that have disappeared in the arms trade. Maybe that's where the nervousness comes from. The Hague is starting to tell Bosnians how they were carrying suitcases. Croats talk more and more about how they carried the bags with money. Bosnians in Bosnia talk about how much they overpaid weapons to the Slovenians. The D.A. had 14 missing charges. Is it possible that this arms trade will forever be hidden, inconsequential? Or the time is coming when this star is going to be accusing a suit, where someone might be guilty, pale, and now is the last time that something has to be done. The one who has an extremely sophisticated system of control of this country and probably - everything points to this - I have quite a few papers that speak - I don't understand these numbers anymore, billions of dollars. It says a billion dollars here. They can often take pictures and laugh at him when he's done a lot, but he didn't make it because the whole system failed. Apparently, in such billions, these systems are failing. And that back there is a story that just wants to use this kind of business, it's been published this year, it's not like I don't know how many years old newspaper clippings. They're fresh. Once again, there are billions of arms trades. And of course, something has to be done to get to power, otherwise it will be too late. And here I'm taking the hardest to bear - if someone who's proven to be honest is accusing someone who's doing bad things, I don't care what the client is doing. I really don't care. But someone who doesn't have settled accounts for so much hard money in this country - never answers. And here someone in this country has to imagine, perhaps, how much more time someone else will have to protect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Lavrinco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I know you're tired, even a little. I am particularly sorry that those who have been "smokin'" to say so are not now in the hall, except, as mentioned above, that Janša's colleague is still here. Look, I'd say first of all what Comrade Sponik said. It's typical of him and his kind, and then they run away. He disqualified me from leading the session yesterday. I think the meeting was properly conducted. Of course, if Comrade Podobnik was not there, he cannot know what was said in the role of President and what I said when I was discussing as an equal participant. There were many grave insulting accusations. And that's why I said, of course, that these are crimes and that I hope that those who have been accused will initiate appropriate procedures, and so I say, in this case, I hope they will be given "to drink ink". I said "Tinto drink" like that. That's one. And the second thing I wanted to say was this. See, in the beginning the opposition is disturbed by the fact that mobile phones in Slovenia were actually developed by Slovenian company Mobitel, up to a near peak. This is crazy in its own way, because this company is owned by the Slovenian state and what we're going to do with it, I've been thinking. Yes, when it is necessary to cover the hole that the Demos government has made with the denationalisation law, where billions and billions of dollars will have to be paid, then, of course, this state property will be sold and we will cover these holes that they have caused by theirs, so to speak, to say the almost unserious treatment of our country, that about a billion euros should be worth Mobitel and, of course, a man can only do so by having such a company. That's one. Second. When I look here they state that because the Slovenian public has not been informed of what happened in Ericsson and corruption, etc., there is a reasonable suspicion that politicians from government parties have with their influence prevented the initiation of an independent investigation. Why do they think that way? Why do they ask? Yes, of course, see if someone who should be tried for arms trafficking, if someone who should be processed, for example, because of the unlawful seizure of liberty, being forgiven or not at all initiated proceedings, and why it is not initiated, looks into the papers that were actually published in the daily newspaper, and it is found that the politicalally owned state attorney has now, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, influenced those who led these proceedings - for example, I think Damian Gantar - that she has therefore prevented her authority and also, in order to, say, to the hearing of her colleague Janša. Then, if Depal took you, it was, therefore, here in front of me I have a report prescribed by the Attorney General, Mr Mazi, and he says that he regards this as a serious mistake of the prosecutor, that she left the prosecution in the Depala case and also explains why, etc. Go on with what she said. For example, a group of state prosecutors informed the suspects about the rejection of the charges, which is not the legal duty of the State Prosecutor's Office, they did not inform the internal affairs authorities when they filed the charges, because, contrary to that, they should have. So you see, to this extent, they're among each other, I'll say what they've agreed on, how they'll be persecuted, and who doesn't, then it's coming to this. Of course, this is very close to these politicians and they are convinced that these authorities continue to operate in this way. I'm sure you don't. After all, it is not because of this, because now, after so many years of operation, both these institutions and other mechanisms are doing better. That is why I am in solidarity with my colleague Geza Juban's statement that the day will come when people will be able to talk about how they kept weapons for those who spent all night counting money, etc. And that's why you know, because until this thing is, - so this is an affair, they said, the affair of all affairs - until it's explored to the end, until that time in my opinion we will have no peace in front of the man who produces such and other affairs. Let me tell you something else. Shame on you, Comrade Janša, you and all the others who have actually destroyed the sport now. Today, for example, in Kamnik there is a meeting of the Committee for the Preparation of the Day of Waterpolists - where to go, where to go, where to go the company now to ask money for a sponsoring contract, for example, for some poster etc. [[..]] Because that's the way you are, I'm going to say, screw up everything that's been good in this area. And I'll tell you something else: you may be particularly ashamed of yourself for using the name Tomaž Humar as well. He's done more for alpinism and you're more like, I guess, some climber, you should know that. Shame on you, therefore, especially when the man came home frozen and so on with the help of his client colleagues led you from one point to another mainly to settle the accounts that remained down there. And to induce a person to do this so that he could participate in a campaign, and this is "the bottom of all the times". Thank you very much. I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Evil to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u306	I'll be very brief. Others before me have already been talking about psychiatric stories, but the responsibility of state institutions, the holders of public functions, which we looked at yesterday, is actually a psychiatric story. On 4.7.2003, the RS Government's Anti-Corruption Office informed the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia that there is a likelihood of corruption in the case of the Swedish mobile phone equipment manufacturer Ericsson, who could also be involved with Slovenian citizens. The suspicion of corruption in this regard has been widely reported by some media abroad, which have also been partially summarised in Slovenia. However, the matter quickly disappeared from the public. The Anti-Corruption Office sent the application to the prosecution on the basis of the following allegations sent to the office by Director Digitel d.o.o. Chimajar, who also informed the US Embassy in Ljubljana. This case also speaks of the Anti-Corruption Office, because it is obvious that the person who made this application to the prosecution is disturbed - this is the least we can say. In fact, the director of Digitala Čimažar also informed the US Embassy in Ljubljana, as if the US Embassy were what it decided. At least I hope not. And he copied a letter, a publicly known fact is that the Swedish and Swiss authorities are investigating the corruption affair of Swedish Ericsson of more than 500 million Swiss francs. The apherist was also reported by German Spiegel and Reuters. In addition, he was directly involved in the comments by Slovenia. The reason for the initiation of the investigation was cash transfers in 1998 and 1999 amounting to Swede Kron 2.5 billion, which Ericsson realised at the expense of a lawyer’s office in Switzerland. In the Slovenian public there was a suspicion that the Swedish company was potentially trying to obtain bribes from one provider of GSM telephony services in Slovenia, but in our opinion such a conclusion was wrong for other reasons. It's about Janša [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] get one man who is mentally disturbed and with him tried to prove to the Slovenian public that our client is doing criminal business with Sweden and with other countries. [[...]] This was actually the first piece of paper that Janša was supposed to use to prove how vile we are and how, in fact, we are common thieves. In fact, all of this, as I said, is a purely psychiatric story, even though Janš's story is a purely psychiatric story.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Puck's word. [[You don't want to.]] Then, Mr. Azhish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u308	I will be very brief, but because obviously I still have some time at my disposal and because the proposaler has 10 minutes left and will, of course, wait for us, I will say what I have heard on the recent occasion of opening one of the Schengen border points when my fellow Members - among the signatories of this call initiative is - on the question of some guests, why do we need another meeting, exceptionally, in the National Assembly, said, "It is a pre-election time. It doesn't matter if it's true or not, it's important to talk and hear." This is the purpose of today’s session, and it is for tomorrow so that we do not blind ourselves and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Skolča, may I have a word with you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, this order, set by the letters of the surname, is in some way a privilege to comment on what a person hears, but at the same time of course it is a kind of curse because in these kinds of discussions it is always necessary to comment on some disappointment that brings me back and again at such and similar poorly prepared sessions. The debate in front of a half-empty hall can certainly be different from before full, but it is not pointless, as many here say. I do not object to the opposition choosing this tactic to piss off people in sentees and other species. She's doing it pretty well, and from this point of view, I think the crying of my colleagues, when they're talking to those who've cooked something, is wrong. That's, I'll say, an integral part of what's going on here. However, it is a key question that I am asking today whether there is, because there is a debate on this, a question that the National Assembly should not be dealing with, says that yes, that it is a national assembly, I will say, a privileged place to discuss precisely certain types of issues. I wouldn't hope to attract it myself. I don't think there's a question that can't be asked in the National Assembly. What is a problem is that these issues need to be asked in a manner that is appropriate for the National Assembly. And here, I'll say, is the key to this disappointment that I've talked about before and for what we can also report to the proponents of this point. But there's something else I'd like to add to that. I'm disappointed in the leadership of the National Assembly because it can't process this kind of thing. Such prepared material is not material that could go to a national assembly without ultimately causing this kind of confusion and disappointment. And, of course, it can't just be the opposition's fault. In spite of this situation, it is necessary to ask who is losing. Is he losing his position, or is he losing his opposition, or are we all losing? And maybe that's not even the most important thing. What seems to me to be a problem of this kind of part of the National Assembly is that it leads to the dismantling of the political system, to the lack of confidence in the system of parliamentary democracy, to the lack of confidence in the division of power. But maintaining this system is, I will say, the responsibility of all those who think that their goals are better achieved in the lobby of the hall and those who are sitting here. And not least, the president of the National Assembly and his associates. There's one thing that's worth thinking about. Not in this darkness, but, say, a semi-empty hall, which is a legitimate act. We are constantly meeting here with some self-image that Members are all-powerful so that they can actually discuss everything without reservation. I'm sorry, I'm not going to go now, I'm going to say, colleagues from other parties, but what my colleague Jakič and colleague Zląbec said is scary. We cannot deal with someone who is not counted, count on the opposition to act more wisely. We cannot talk at the beginning of our entry into the European Union about fears, about the purposes of the US Embassy, and I don't know who else. These are terrible things. These are things that we don't actually see in bad movies from the '60s. From this point of view, we have simply caught ourselves in some trap, that we simply do not know that there are certain restrictions on the work of Members and of the National Assembly and those who run it. And it seemed important to me to say, in all this, that this assumption that we are discussing business decisions is unreasonable, that all these companies are organised by the government to send a wide variety of answers, that it is unreasonable that they are in these business ends, because of all this atmosphere that we are generating in Parliament, to the point where everyone is afraid to send a bunch of materials. This is a bad situation. It is the responsibility of those who provoke these questions and, more so, those who cannot stop them when the time is right. This is at the time of entry into parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr Kavčič has a word, he's confused with Mr Puck, but I'm afraid I haven't seen it. Here you go, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u312	Thank you very much. It is worth admitting that colleague Janša has made a great effort in his performances in an effort to sell us some particular logic of thinking. This logic of thinking seems to be that whoever is a member or sympathizer of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia should not have any business with any company with a certain share or at least an indirect influence of the state. Such negative discrimination cannot be accepted by the knowledge, nor should it be acceptable to discriminate in the way that anyone who is a member of any other party should be assessed according to this criterion. This is particularly painful in this direction, because the values of Liberal Democracy are very close to business creativity, entrepreneurship and, therefore, very naturally, there are many people who are sympathizers or members of the Liberal Democracy and are also economically active. I think that's right. Of course, the same criteria for transparency in access to business and business resources apply to all. However, it may be hard for someone to get nervous that we did not sell family silver in Slovenia, as it did in some transition country, that Slovenia still has a lot of valuable companies, such as Mobil, Telekom, electricity distribution, electricity generation companies, partly banks and insurance companies, and many investments through Kad, Soda and Srd. But I think it's a good thing, because this might make it a little easier for us to also be able to have a very large financial burden of denationalisation. It is about €5 billion, which, of course, will have to deal with present and future generations. This should, of course, lead us to take responsibility until this family silver, to these companies, and therefore to soundly-minded proposals to deal with alleged irregularities do not solve any problem. Who considers that information that could reasonably point to corruption or any other form of crime is his civil right and duty to file appropriate complaints. However, it is irresponsible to confiscate with the names of companies and individuals. It will cause many, or it has already done, both moral and material harm. To summarize briefly, for example, representatives of the pro-pulsive Slovenian companies, say the repeatedly mentioned Ultra. The basic and supplementary data provided show that all businesses of this company have been subject to objective, competitive criteria. However, the allocated allocations for development projects were obtained on the basis of tenders and represent negligiblely small shares, both under the individual user-specific asset criterion and according to the share of the total assets invested in the development of these companies. Unfortunately, the accession of the candidates for the extraordinary meeting reflects the total absence of understanding and respect for entrepreneurial creativity. Very rare is the ability to create a modern high-tech system and even more respectable is the ability of the international implementation of high-tech products and systems, much more so if these achievements are protected and validated by international patents. This cannot be guaranteed by any State aid, so these values need to be dealt with more responsibly in the Slovenian space.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u313	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u314	Thank you, I will be very brief too, because there are very important actors missing in this circus, but I don't think pleasure can be perfect. However, I have to report because there have been some complete inaccuracies in the debate. One such claim is that the supplier of a police boat received a business because it belongs to one political option or specifically the United List of Social Democrats. I have to say that the supplier's leading husband sat with me in the municipal world and did not belong to the United List and not to the LDS. Of course, I wonder if on such flat-rate material, let's say, a table of subsidies and agricultural grants. Since we all know each other in Slovenia. What a list and what insinuations we could make, who belongs to where. And that is why it seems incomprehensible to do a story about one company, otherwise I agree that the law enforcement authorities should investigate, if anything, one company that receives just over 100 million State aid for five years, and has incomes of almost 2 billion in just one year, as we have seen data from 2003. But I know about, say, farmers, because I mentioned that he is one farmer who can imagine what he has, and what he has, and what he gets is some 10 million state funds. That's why I think these things are pure insinuation. In addition, I must say that we are all responsible for the situation together. The opposition, too. I find it very difficult to believe, despite the fact that the opposition had very little time for power, but in those six months we could find something, especially because of the fact that if we do not go to the judiciary or the judiciary, as we know, we have very important or most responsible officials in law enforcement authorities who might have discovered something. And for many years, even when she wasn't in power. But there is no specific case, no large fish that would be legally condemned, as is usually said. That's why I'd say so. I think that Slovenia, however, is a regulated country, is in the most important European association, it is in the most important security world association. We came to the 28th elite club, although I do not deny that we have our problems and that we also need to fight corruption and customerism and we are not immune to this virus. However, I would offer a kind suggestion to the opposition who boycotts, but it is accompanied, at least by Janš's colleague, that it might be possible to consider that in the future they are not building opposition only on destructive opposition, on separating spirits, on separating weeds from grain and only on blacking out those who are ugly and weak, on the other good and beautiful. These values have been distributed according to my understanding, among all, between the position and the opposition, and it would nevertheless indicate that if we considered constructive opposition. In doing so, I would point out that they show that they are sincere, because we know that some of the bridge builders were already, and that they had good ideas, good words, even though it turned out to be a fig tree in their pocket, and that they did not have a good idea at the end of the day, let alone build the bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u315	Thank you very much. There are still some reports, but the LDS Group is no longer available for discussion. I therefore ask the representative of the candidates, Mr Janša, whether I wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u316	In this modest time, which is also intended for the proponents for the final word, only a few thoughts. First of all, it seems to me that for the first time since there is a parliamentary democracy, in Slovenia the opposition was obstructed because it did not have a word. Not because of an infringement of the Rules of Procedure or anything else, but because once again, after 15 years in Slovenia, freedom of expression was restricted. The next thing I want to say is that the formerly Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy has read here the official police note that the administration of the criminal police, probably the prosecution and those charged with a case. They gave it to me, too. This is Mr Andrej Jerman Blažić's statement, in which the burden of Mr Zagozno, former Minister of Economy, is borne by the alleged sponsorship of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the elections in 2000. First, let me say that this investigation initiated by the Minister of Liberal Democracy for the Economy immediately after the adoption of the mandate has been concluded that the indictment has been filed is a matter at this stage, and that the accused does not say anything about the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, there is very interesting evidence of where the money from this company Iskra Computers went, which has already gone bankrupt, and which is supposed to sponsor the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here I have a credit agreement and an annex to a credit agreement concluded between Iskro Computeri d.o.o. and the United List of Social Democrats as Borrowers for Multimillion Tolars at an extremely favourable rate, 28.11.2000. Just at the time when the Minister of the Economy rejected the computers purchased by the former Minister at Iskri Computers and the same company Iskra Computers, a gentleman whose official note was read by the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy, a prominent member of this party, gave this statement, this company Iskra Computeri, who is supposed to sponsor the Slovenian Democratic Party, sponsored the United List. She paid for the climate with which Mr Ptrč is cooling on Levstik, Lipa COM in 2000. I am afraid, Mrs Shirca, that you have replaced the United List of Social Democrats with the Slovenian Democratic Party or the former Social Democratic Party. So much for that. As regards the other findings at Mr Zagozno's expense, I must inform you that there has already been an investigation into the fact that an indictment has been brought, which has now been rejected. And then the truth will prove itself in court. Several other members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are in the investigation and proceedings and the truth will prove to be in court. I don't mind. But I don't know any former Minister of Liberal Democracy, even though this party has been in power for 12 years to be under any kind of investigation. The only one that was anything about this was Mr Dragonja, because he was supposed to finance the partner party and otherwise none of it. Strange, isn't it? They investigated government ministers who had been in power for a few months and government ministers, who had been in power for 12 years, none. Something's weird. Or they're only honest somewhere. Only those who are always in power, or something is wrong with this system. You say, Ultra company operates normally, everything is normal, no clienteleism. Maybe. But look. Mr Secretary-General, now the President of the Council of Liberal Democracy, was employed in this company last August. On 2 September, an invitation to tender was already issued in the Post of Slovenia, which we discussed earlier and Ultra was chosen. On 9 October, Telekom issued a request and, of course, chose Ultra for 800 vehicles. 7.11. Elektro Ljubljana without Ultra. On 4 February this year, Elektro Celje Ultra has no invitation to tender. 10.2. Elektro Maribor Ultra without a call. 5.3. Ministry of the Environment and the Ultra area without a call for tender. Do you think it's really a coincidence that there's no connection here, that it was just market issues? Come on, you know you don't. The port of Koper first and second, so I won't mention it. Mr. Jakich, Ultre patents. First of all, this. Let me calm you down. This meeting was not convened by the United States Embassy. They are discussing corruption in all parliaments. The American Congress discussed Enron, the Italian Parliament on Parmalat. The debate on corruption, resolving this problem, Mr Terchoon, is a constructive work of the opposition. It's a constructive work. Less corruption, faster progress. The U.S. embassy did not convene this meeting. The opposition called it. We're just going to ask her to officially explain to you that they have nothing to do with it. Maybe then you'll believe it. As far as Ultra's patents are concerned. Look at that red bag we got, and we show you the patents. The first paper is the application or registration of the design for the box. You all know English and you'll see. There's a few more applications in there that aren't patents yet. A patent application isn't a patent yet. We have a letter from the Intellectual Property Office saying Ultra has no patent in Slovenia. And that even what's in this material are the applications. Just because someone reports something doesn't mean they're a patent. In many cases, the deadlines have expired, in which matters should be registered. But even if they are, there's nothing wrong. People who work in Ultra have relatively low wages. The winnings are going somewhere else. It's a great honor to them. The problem is how it came about. That it was not in an equal position as far as other companies were concerned and that things were just overflowing. As far as sports is concerned. Don't cry so there won't be any sponsors now. You have everything in your hands. My friend Jakich is already going to raise money for the athletic relationship. Wherever it comes from, it's the ones that this government has set up. They'll help. Mr. Anderlich also for the car motto sport and not to mention the following. There's no problem with that. As for the Demos' government, which made a hole for denationalisation, I'm afraid not, Mr Lavrinc. Ask at home who made this hole about denationalisation. The one who took this property, and now these things need to be fixed. And you're talking about the hole when you call again and put the legislation deleted on the agenda. Who's gonna pay for that? That's when you have to ask. As far as the arms trade is concerned; I said last time, you have all the investigating bodies in your hands for 12 years, you haven't discovered anything or you didn't want to. You can call an extraordinary session on this subject at any time, but you haven't. You had an investigative committee, two, none of that. You didn't make any applications, it's the only place to talk. You wait for us to save you and we will. The opposition will convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject. I hope you won't, I hope you won't limit our time. I think that Mr. Juban or Mr. Ashič said the last time, "arms were so much money to buy elections." Maybe, let's just see who's in power at this time. It was an illegal arms trade, we know who was dealing with it. And this session we're going to call will be very interesting. I just hope you won't limit your time again and you'll say you haven't presented the evidence. Now, seriously. The conclusions have been proposed, the conclusions that have gone into that some things have been true, too, but what I am now saying, I think is essential for this meeting. Decisions have been proposed to provide the National Assembly with certain information on what has been happening in these matters, after the authorities, which should have already done not have been actively involved, have examined this. The committee has already rejected all the conclusions and now you will confirm that everything is fine, that nothing has happened. I don't think that's a good idea. You're doing the opposition a favor. By this you prove that you are simply not prepared to face any arguments, you are not prepared for those authorities to do so. This also casts doubt on many of you who have nothing to do with what it says. I'm sure that many of you don't or most of you sitting here have nothing to do with the suspicions that are here, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Jansha. Because I gave you, and now you are [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u318	It's not only bad for the country, it's bad for you. [[...]] And I suggest you reconsider before you headlessly reject the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u319	Now I'm really restricting your word. [[...]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Madam Minister, Mrs Cerarjevo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Allow me to give you a brief legal aspect and assessment of the case of Mobiltel, Svema, Ericsson, who has today experienced an assessment of corruption and an assessment of the criminal case that should take place in Slovenia. The State Prosecutor's Office has sent a report to the Ministry of Justice, and I know a matter from my own and its chronological course will tell you why the result is the same as it is. In June 2003, a short newspaper article in Germany indicated that Sweden was investigating financial manipulation in relation to these three companies. The Slovenian Prosecutor's Office immediately contacted the Swedish prosecutor via Eurojust, who said that the real police were investigating the activities of these institutions and that for once there were no data to be involved in these irregularities by the Slovenian natural or legal person. The Swedish prosecutor also said that Switzerland is also working on the case in the canton of Züri. We found the name and identity of the prosecutor who is in charge of the case and also verified through it that at the time of the reporting, no Slovenian natural or legal person was subject to their investigation. When Drago Kos returned from Sweden, who was there as a representative of the Anti-Corruption Office, he also brought the information that we had already had and provided it in writing to the prosecution, but it did not change anything. We had the assurance that we would receive data from both prosecutors if it turns out that there is a basis for us to start criminal activities in Slovenia as well. So far, no competent institution in Slovenia has received such data, and it is not possible to say that there is a suspicion of corruption of Slovenian citizens, either legal or natural persons, and therefore it is not possible to initiate criminal proceedings, as this must be based on evidence, on facts based on reasonable suspicion. Perhaps something is wrong, but it is not the basis where either the police, as a detection authority or the prosecution, as a law enforcement authority, could carry out any activities. Therefore, I think that either the inaction of the Slovenian repressive institutions or the competent persons or the obvious that we have not noticed that we have a criminal activity in the field of Slovenia and have not dealt with it, at this point, is unfounded. I am confident, however, that when the prosecution receives or will receive such information as may be the basis for the imposition of the criminal procedure, that this will also be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I call on the Minister, Mr. Lakhovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u322	As regards the evidence that they were flying to the Ministry of the Economy and were mainly related to Ultra, I would like to point out that the first observation that Ultra was granted 5 and a half million funds, in fact, 4 and a half million. This is a transparent business where companies receive funds on the basis of actual invoices and bank statements that the funds have actually been used for the purpose for which they have also applied and competed in the tender. Today, I have delivered to the National Assembly a list of all the companies that have participated and also received funds from the calls for proposals, in which Ultra has also participated. In the call for pre-competitive research activities, funds were received from 103 companies, in promoting the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises 97 companies for the export intensity of small and medium-sized enterprises 65 companies and for technological development projects related to research development activities 146 companies. No one at the Ministry of Economy, or personally, has been able to identify the customer orientation of the leaders in these companies, nor is the customer distribution of employees in these companies. Nobody's dealing with it, and I think it's right that it is. As far as Ultra’s performance is concerned, I can say that I would like all companies to make such a successful use of state aid. If a cost benefit had been carried out, the analysis would have quickly found that, in the form of taxes and contributions, it had been returned several times to the State budget what Ultra had indicated to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u323	Thank you very much. And Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u324	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to deny Mr Janš's clear statements regarding the award of concessions or radio licences for GSM in 1995, 1996. These indications are not correct. Yesterday we denied them on the Internal Policy Committee and will further document them with concrete materials. All the lawsuits that Digittel filed in this regard were lost. These cases were carried out in accordance with the legislation currently in force. The letter from the former Director of URST is unworthy in this respect. It was he who advocated the granting of these permits under the Economic Public Services Act, which was absurd and today would have been in a mobile blackout if that had happened. As regards the vehicle tracking system at the Post Office, Mr Janša has bagged and bogged down matters. Net savings amount to 39 million a year to be understood after all the costs for this system have been paid. It's an important savings. The net savings for the fleet for light-duty vehicles and medium-sized vehicles in the five to seven years amount to 47 million 850 thousand dollars because there will be fewer vehicles. These are important savings and this is a good investment and a good investment. The crown of false indications is that Ultra has received a vehicle tracking system at the environmental agency. According to the information available to me, the invitation to tender was concluded 14 days ago and this transaction was received by Monolid. Ultra ran, but she lost. That's what it's like in the business world. Once you get it, you don't get it. Ultra, by the way, I know that in Slovenia there are no patented solutions, no inventions, but in some European countries and around the world, which is understandable because it is a global company. In the end, all I would say is what they actually tell us, the government and others. They're telling us to do what they'd do if they were in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u325	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the material and the proposed conclusions that the mother labour body has proposed to the national assembly to adopt. It's two conclusions. At the first conclusion is the amendment - let's go in order. We will first decide on the amendment to the first decision tabled by the members of the Slovenian National Party and wants to amend this Decision. First of all, on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Decision No 1 proposed by the mother's working body. Voice explanation, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u326	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. I'm aware it's a late hour that we've all had a lot of stress on our nerves and everything. I will therefore briefly explain, on behalf of the Group of Members, why we will vote against this decision, which is submitted by the conscripts, for the request of this point for an extraordinary meeting. The reason is simple. When I performed on behalf of the parliamentary group, I showed the bag where they were gathered, and a special folder where we collected all kinds of articles, publications, such as these and other. Why do we have to go against it? For a simple reason. If we tried and took the time in the night and examined the answers to the charges, not only suspicion, but the accusations, the signatories, in either answer or in their debate, did not convince me that they would refuse to even try to study these answers and to deny them with other arguments, but simply, as the nation says, they faltered their truth that it was such, and that without considering whether it was a lie to become the truth, to convince them when they spoke on television that it was not, and they condemned it. However, the essence of the problem is, to the same extent as we said yesterday, that they have used and will continue to exploit until the elections, either at the end of September or in early October for the national elections to appear. It doesn't matter what you say, it's important to them that you talk a lot, that you show up a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-06-SDZ3-Izredna-44.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Just so there's no misunderstanding. The three conclusions proposed by the motions for an extraordinary meeting to be adopted by the parent working body first are not before us today because the mother working body rejected them and adopted its two conclusions. However, amendments have been tabled on these two conclusions. We therefore first decide on the first amendment of the SNS delegation to the decision of the parent working body. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. He voted 1, against 48. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the amendment to the first decision has not been adopted. We are now moving on to the decision on the decision of the parent working body under number 1. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I find that the decision under number one, the parent working body, has been adopted. We are moving on to decision-making, first of all two amendments to decision number two, the parent working body. The amendments of the SNS Group of Members and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members are tabled. First, we decide on the amendment of the SNS delegation to the second decision of the Committee. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, who voted 2 to 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment of the SNS Group of Members has not been adopted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the second decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, who voted 2 to 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We are now moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body under 2. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 50 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Dear representatives and representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for your work. I conclude this item on the agenda, and again from this point of view, I reject that they would violate the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly and unduly restrict anyone's time for discussion. Thank you so much and good night. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m.
