ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Franc Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Milan Kopushar, Franc Lenko, Peter Levič, Alojz Peterle and Janez Podobnik. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENT. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome Dr. Theo Petrin, Minister of Economy, and Mag. Matthew Meselj, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Economy. I give the Minister my word for further explanation of the bill. You've got ten minutes, if that's all right with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! You therefore have before you a proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, whose main objective is to create an entrepreneurial environment that activates all resources, both human, financial and material, for easy entry and successful growth of enterprises and to make the most of the entrepreneurial innovation potentials in Slovenia. In line with the basic objective, the main novelties of the law are the following. It introduces a new definition of micro-enterprise. It is a micro-enterprise that employs up to five people and its annual income does not exceed 30 million tolars; such companies are today 25% in Slovenia. This definition in this law is important due to the system of granting State aid, while at the same time recalling the basis for introducing measures for facilitating business introduced by amendments to the Company Act and in the framework of tax rules. It further introduces the possibility of granting public authority to provide certain services to support entrepreneurship to other persons of public and private law if they are more qualified to do so than are existing. Interested operators will apply for programmes that can be implemented with a public mandate for calls for tenders and will be given powers for a certain period of time or duration of the project. We therefore expect, on the one hand, to increase efficiency in the implementation of various programmes and instruments to promote entrepreneurship in order to create competition in this area. On the other hand, we set a clear gap between the provision of public and commercial services. The proposal also lays the legal basis for keeping records of the institutions of the innovative environment, rules for the allocation of resources for services of public interest, for the allocation of institutions such as clusters, technology networks, incubators, technology centres and the like, which contribute to the faster creation and transfer of knowledge in the economy and to strengthening the innovation capacity of businesses. This will, on the one hand, contribute to a more efficient channelling of public funds and to reducing administrative costs at national level. On the other hand, it will be clear which funds are intended for the operation and development of these institutions, directly to the undertakings involved. In this regard, one of the novelties of the law which will directly benefit undertakings involved in enterprise incubators, technology parks and the like is that they will be entitled to State aid for the provision of those services of public interest. In particular, it is more favourable rents for more favourable services, for the establishment and start-up of companies, such as common accounting services, administrative and marketing services, and for the preparation of projects with which companies can apply for tenders. Building institutions of an innovative environment also provides an essential basis for establishing a quality implementation structure for the use of the European Union's development resources. I would like to point out that the law does not introduce new institutions in the area of the support environment. However, the most important novelty of the proposed law is, of course, the new and the needs of businesses being redesigned as sources of funding. In particular, favourable direct and direct loans for development investments, guarantees for leased loans for development investments, subsidies to natural persons for the establishment and start-up of enterprises in innovative environment entities, subsidies for development projects, favourable indirect and direct loans for capital investments, guarantees for leased loans and for capital investments of private investors, investment in the development of business infrastructure to facilitate investment. Why is this about the most important part of the marriage? It is because all the research to date has shown that one of the most important insurance factors in the area of entry and growth of small enterprises is precisely a lack of certain financial instruments, which we are also introducing by this proposal. The essence of these instruments is to provide support at all stages of investment development needed by companies for successful development, that is to say from imprisonment, establishment, start-up, growth and maturity. These instruments will be implemented by the public fund for the development of a small economy and will transform it into a Slovenian entrepreneurship fund by implementing this law. In the bill, the Fund will also act as a proponent of private investors by granting favourable loans for capital investments in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and by granting guarantees to private investors for loans. The law also opens up the possibility of further integration of the Fund and the pooling of funds to support investment and medium-sized enterprises. The law also opens up the possibility of the integration of a public institution, that is to say the PCMG for other public law institutions, if this makes it possible to carry out tasks more effectively and more effectively. Dear Members and Members, if you support the bill, you will make an important contribution by your decision to the further strengthening of entrepreneurship culture and the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the Committee's report to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Franc Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State. Allow me to present in a few sentences the report of the Committee on the Economy, which, as a parent working body at its 45th meeting, addressed the proposal of the law. In particular, the debate on individual articles raised the question whether the solutions in this law were sufficient to effectively promote the faster development of entrepreneurship. This development, we know, is not satisfactory. The assessment prevailed that this law provided only part of the systemic environment to promote entrepreneurship and that we were united in the conclusion that more appropriate solutions were needed for the faster development of entrepreneurship in a series of other laws and in economic policy, and, of course, not least in the budget by providing adequate resources. In particular, there was much debate on Article 3 of the bill, in particular on the definition of a micro-enterprise, where the committee adopted the amendment you have in the report and I will not read it. This is the number of employees up to 5 and the total income up to 30 million tolars. But we also have an amendment to the progressive, complementary bill, which, if I may say so, also seems appropriate. We have also found in this debate that unfortunately there was not enough time to prepare thoroughly for the consideration of the law and that it would therefore be good for certain additions to and harmonisation within this article, as well as for the criteria themselves and also for the definitions and terms themselves and for the harmonisation with other laws. This is also followed by some of the amendments tabled. We have also followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and on this basis we have also adopted some amendments. On this basis, a complementary bill has been prepared, which is contained in the report, and I propose that the bill be adopted by the assembly. Allow me to conclude by saying that, when it rules us properly, express mail sends a large number of amendments or laws in recent days, that we have found at two meetings of the committee last week, that it is extremely difficult in the short term to process legislative proposals professionally both in the legislative and legal services, in the professional services of the committee and, of course, in the professional services of the parliamentary groups, in the sent groups in general, and this is also a problem for the Members themselves. However, the situation is as it is, and of course we are trying to do the best we can to adopt a quality law, and this and, of course, others that we will deal with tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee, for the explanation given. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 34th regular meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups this time. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.3.2004. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments which are under review Article 3. Who wants to discuss Article 3 and the amendments? Branko Kelemina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Respectable all together! Although in the Chamber of Commerce, it is my opinion that a certain laziness, charlatan wrote, is one that has probably not yet winked at Slovenia with his finger, except for its personal benefit, that it is a valuable document in the economic field. It's a valuable government measure. All right, it can be certain that some contribution to improving the accessibility of a small economy, a small economy to resources, to a favourable entrepreneurial environment, but it also wonders that the comments that have been, say, on our part on this basis are, as if Jolandi Čeplak had ordered, to achieve the results this year. And I answer that we actually had exactly the same amount of financial resources available to this support environment so far, we also had an economy or those who wanted to do something in this area, but we didn't have the right measures, so we had a stadium, we had top athletes, but we didn't have, like, slippers and we didn't have, I don't know, stopwatchers to move these things forward. So, we had an economy, we had money, but we didn't have certain measures and certain guidelines to develop this economy. It's just for intermezzo. Otherwise, in Article 3, I would just comment a little. I have also proposed an amendment, or our Group of Members. We had quite a discussion on these formulations or on the use of expressions on micro-enterprises on the Committee on the Economy. I see that there is now an amendment to the other indents of Article 3, which stipulates that the number of employees should "not exceed". We used to have less than in the first version. If we look at micro-enterprises, we've even written in the first version that micro-enterprises where fewer than 10 people are employed, that's 9, and its annual income does not exceed 470 million tolars. That's quite a sum. That's 9 people, actually 50 million revenue per year is supposed to create, say, one employee. This is how it follows from this proposal. Now we on the Committee on the Economy have corrected this amendment and we have also written on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and so on that the micro-enterprise should be one that does not exceed five people - so we put on five - and its annual income does not exceed 30 million tolars. That is to say, if we go now to the relationship that was in the original proposal, 470 million, and give it halfway, that would be 235. About five, or if you say four and a half, about. Since it can't be four and a half, it has to be five or four. And now four out of 230 million come in on their own. I don't understand these formulations the most, as suggested by the new proposal now, and I think we should at least raise this height a little bit, at least on one -- as I wrote it myself, to 50 million -- because I don't see what five people should do in one company to create an annual income of 30 million tolars. I don't know what to do. Then I don't really know if they're gonna do toothpicks or something. I don't know. On the other hand, there is much more to it, because everywhere there is to be reckoned that these can be very highly productive people, who can also create a lot, and at such a small amount of income, then this circle of beneficiaries in a call for proposals would in fact be too limited, in my opinion. So, if, of course, you would suggest that I can actually support the first amendment personally and also, I would suggest that others do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. I give the floor to Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The dilemma raised by the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proponents is, of course, in place and it is considered that we should pay some attention to it. The dilemma of your delegation group, in order to be a low limit, which is defined as 30 million in the definition, too exclusive for the purposes of state aid, is on the ground, and at least as far as my personal assessments are concerned, it would be appropriate to support this amendment, namely, the change from 30 million to 50 million tonnes of income in this category to three employees, although it will not significantly increase the undertakings involved in the whole structure already adopted by the Board 25%, but if this is possible for a percentage of companies, it is appropriate to listen to your warning and therefore not to overly exclude businesses. By supporting this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Here I first welcome the attempt to open up or resolve the issue of entrepreneurship support in our country. Of course we're ten years behind this, but better now than never. However, in this article, in Article 3, I find certain dictions or gradings, like my predecessors, somewhat lacking. Indeed, it should be borne in mind that, when we compare Europe as a whole, there are 26 million private, crafted, small enterprises in Europe, with an average of three employees -26 million! And they employ 80 million workers! 53% of all employees in Europe are employed in small businesses with an average of three employees. That's very interesting information. Europe is an old continent, directed at small labour units. Inadequately more is Paša Slovenia, the Slovenian population, the Slovenian mentality aimed at small business, at family companies. And if something is going to save us and if something is going to stimulate economic growth, for Slovenia, there is certainly only one option in small businesses or, above all, in small businesses, family enterprises and so on. Well, here we run into this limit that's already been mentioned. In fact, technology is changing today. We have more and more high-tech companies. In the field of IT, it is not only the strengths that are employed, especially the high personnel. And here, of course, the limit of 30 million per year for a small company is incomprehensiblely low. If we compare a small enterprise mentioned in the third indent, it means that it employs a maximum of 50 people and must not exceed the annual income of 2 billion 300 000. Okay. This means 46 million income or turnover per employee per year. With a micro-enterprise, which I now mention, where there are no more than five employees, there are 30 million, which means 6 million per employee - 7.5 times less! That's incomprehensible! If we went to compare 46 million per employee with a small company, we should consider at least 40 million per employee, that is 200 million, not 30 million, and 200 million is a reasonable limit. And our amendment that's here -- I've been doing some more real numbers myself, 200 million, real numbers 200 million. It was said, it won't go through, let's at least give it this, at least I don't know if we're always under the pressure of this government majority and we can't do anything normal. [[...]] I hope that the article will be open and in the third reading, if not someone else, I will propose 200 million myself - this is a normal number. But there is one other thing, probably a more editorial nature that needs to be rectified. We have heard or expected amendments to the LDS, i.e. government parties, to be amendments to the second and third indents, and I was hoping that, of course, I support the amendment, they will not completely edit it, but they will not. For example, see the amendment: The medium-sized company is a company where the number of employees does not exceed 250 and its annual income does not exceed 11 billion and so on. This is said to be a medium-sized enterprise, also a micro-enterprise, and this does not exceed 250 employees, and it certainly does not exceed 11 billion. The lower limit should also be indicated for medium-sized enterprises, including the lower limit, this is said to be written: The medium-sized enterprise is, of course, larger than the micro-enterprise, which is said to be in which the number of employees is above 50 and does not exceed 250. It is not logical, must be written and probably should be supplemented in the procedure below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Well, the definition of enterprises has a reasonable cause only when, on the basis of this definition, the plasma of measures is also geared towards promoting and if we are leading some serious small business development strategy, micro-enterprises must also have special attention in these measures. And one of the measures is also clear that it is necessary to go against the achievement of higher added value in all companies and also directly in the micro-enterprise. And with the introduction of highly technologically completed technology and so on, a micro-enterprise in the future also based on, I would say, the results of this law are somewhat fast reaching a result that is much higher than the baseline. In this sense, it would be very useful to support this amendment, even if the fund of the annual micro-enterprise extraction were larger and I am sure that it will be fast. And if this did not result in this micro-enterprise having some restriction on entry into incentive measures under this law, it would be a shame if we based this limit too low on it. So I think it's wise to support this amendment and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. Mag. Janez Petty Officer has the floor. My friend Brenčič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's appropriate to think about these classes as to how companies should be deployed, but we need to ask ourselves what we want to achieve with these definitions or by placing these classes according to our economic situation. If we analyze the entrepreneurial structure, then we find out, this is likely to be confirmed by the Ministry of the Economy that this entrepreneurial hole in small businesses, not micro-enterprises, is still showing. We also had micro-enterprises during socialism, a large number of craftsmen who were no longer allowed to have employees, I don't know, 5 or 10 people. In fact, we have a weak middle structure, which is also extremely innovative at the end of the world. We're missing this one. It's not capital-intensive enough to get inside knowledge. From this point of view classes should be classified. On the one hand, we must comply with European standards, and on the other hand, we must also design to get close to this. Why set these classes? To improve this matter by means of instruments and measures. When there will be calls for subsidies or any of those calls to catch the real ones. Why is it not simply proportional to income or income for micro-enterprises to determine the weight for medium-sized enterprises? Because micro-enterprises are, in fact, unclaimed capital. These are service services where such a turnover is located, and therefore it is not entirely convenient to multiply. I would have raised this amount of revenue, but not quite proportionally, because it's another type of production. Maybe not so technologically rich, capital-rich, with a capital plant and the like. Of course, we must ask ourselves what is happening to us now. In particular, we are faced with the fact that the number of employees in small enterprises, by definition, not after this translation, can also be said in micro-enterprises, especially in micro-enterprises and in small enterprises, the number of employees is decreasing. Why this is happening to us, I don't know, we should analyze it, but it's happening to us because that's what the statistics show. There are also small businesses and micro-enterprises in the environment and especially in the environment, where there are also large companies, medium-sized enterprises, to create suitable clusters, connections, networks and more. In this respect, I support the Democratic Party's amendment, but I would probably raise a thousand more for some more and certainly there is no point at this point in raising the number of employees to 10, as it was in the proposal, because then probably these micro-enterprises, which are probably our target, could be affected to a lesser extent, in particular by the instruments of resources that the State has or something like that, because these funds, which are likely to be available, would be under-distributed to the larger ones, and these small, up to 5 employees, would fall out. That's why more of them would fall out. So in this light, we need to look at what we actually do if we are to increase a class. It is not easy to say, we are for the increase, we are for the expansion - so it can happen that we cannot be the target that is really a micro-enterprise, well covered with an appropriate amount of money, so that, of course, we do not get caught by other fish that we do not want to be in this structure. So we think that five people are all right; but maybe in time we will change this number when our entrepreneurship structure is more harmonised with those countries that have a long-term market system and democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. Dr. Michael Brace has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In my previous consideration of the law, I was quite critical of the very concept of this law, for the key question raised by this law is: Does this law now make it easier for someone who would start a business activity to do so? Well, last time I made a whole series of concrete proposals or comments on this law. While some of this is taken into account, the law as a whole is still inadequate in my opinion. That is why I showed this second reading to one of the successful entrepreneurs within SM Union Slovenia, one of the gazelles, if I say so, and asked him how this law sees how this law now encourages him, perhaps his partners, colleagues, friends, to decide entrepreneurship. His answer was, "Yes, I don't really see anything new in this." Nothing that is essential to our entrepreneurship and to the boom of entrepreneurship. Now, if someone who belongs to the gazelle says that, I believe him before I believe the government. In fact, the key point - if we stick to Article 3 consistently now, where the definitions are, and therefore in fact allow for a much broader explanation - is the first question on the part of these, how can I say, our entrepreneurs was whether it is necessary to mention numbers in Article 3 when it comes to money, billions, millions and so on. But these figures do not show that this law is a reflection of craftsmanship and state intervention, because when we talk about entrepreneurship and set a financial condition, for example, five employees and 30 million, we automatically put this in place because we put this definition in connection with the concept of state aid and the like. That is to say, it is probably not meant that this law is intended only for those who are in need of some State aid, but a law such as its title - so the last time I said that the address does not correspond to the content - should open up space for all those who need it, and for those who do not. So let the marriage be an incentive for everyone. Because what are those elements of the entrepreneurial environment? It is certainly a simple system of setting up businesses - few administrative obligations of small and medium-sized enterprises, an incentive function of the country that is visible in this law, it is said, aid in setting up businesses and operating businesses, favourable loans, tax reliefs, payment discipline and so on. The local community also plays a very important role when it comes to an entrepreneurial environment, as it has a decisive impact on the use of space. But there's not much to it. So I am really asking myself whether it is necessary that, for example, there are also so many differences now following this amendment in relation to the third indent of Article 3. Previously, we had a peaceful enterprise, where ten people and 470 million, now we've cut the micro-enterprise into five people, but instead of going halfway, as we've already said, we've gone to 30 million. Okay, we've made some amendments just to open up, to make this debate possible, but I think it's pointless to restrict someone who has five people with 30s or 50 million. In fact, we can stick to the Labour Relations Act, which also defines these categories, preserve those concepts and leave everything else. In any event, if we are talking about the concrete means that entrepreneurs would receive, let's say if I now take Article 6 for example, in the second paragraph, that the government prescribes more detailed conditions, criteria and criteria for the allocation of funds for the implementation of the Programme of Action if we only take one article. But I would ask the government to consider whether, however, it would be possible to somehow release that amount. I don't know. Is it possible to do so under what directives or something I don't know and to leave an entrepreneurial initiative? I would love to have a small entrepreneur with five employees, I don't know, maybe that number in the first indent, even though it sounds amazing, but that would be great, if that were the case. So I'm asking, I'm not asking because the article is open, so we're thinking about simply deleting in this Article 3 this number, which speaks of amounts. I know you can't do that, but then let's get them up as high as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Anyone else want to discuss article 3 of the amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 3. We're moving on to Section 4. Here is also the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? Mag. Petty Officer, Joseph Jerovšek, Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	In this regard, then, Article 4 and the amendments should contain a few more words about this law. In the case of a third company that only defines the size of a company, I avoided it. Of course, we will not talk here about the content of this law, because we are talking in Article 4 on a programme of measures for the period. Now that's what we're going to be assessing through this law. This marriage, you don't want, stays on the level of principles, it's like a resolution, like guidance. It's just that he can't be opposed, and whoever opposes him, probably would do himself a bad, bad favor, any one, left, right, middle, red, green. But it's another thing. How we actually apply this text in practice. We have had countless cases now back, not countless, a number of cases, of various laws, where, however, these principles, which have been written down, and in particular in Article 5, would be enforced in laws with operational provisions. For example, in the labour law, flexibility in the labour market, flexibility in employment, in order to reduce the rigidity of forgiveness and increase incentives for employment. We did not say this in order to hold back from forgiving, because we would follow a typical set of union instruments, because we know they are not good, they are not good, the rigidity of working relationships has proved to be, and protection has returned to reduced employment, increased unemployment. This has come to light. The incentives are important. And then, let's say at income, just yesterday at income, for the development of environments, regions that are in a depressing situation that are in this backlog. Again, the amendment didn't go through. Then, with regard to payment discipline, regarding the registration of new companies, this is a problem of state administration, and a bit of the problem of the company law. But the registration that you can do whatever the entrepreneur needs in three or four days. Equality in public procurement, equality of treatment in equity companies should be amended. We see what's happening to us, and it's insatiable for a small, micro-enterprise environment. The preference of large shareholders, these are things that unfortunately do not find a place in the laws, so if the practice of the ruling coalition does not change in the adoption of these laws, you will not be credible, you will not be credible. We will not oppose this law, I support it, even though it will not move anything, maybe some idea will come, something else will not. What matters is what happens in individual laws. So sometimes something else needs to be bitten, and sometimes it hurts. With the existing strategic programmes, this is an amendment, so we can support it, as I have already said, a text that does not have operational provisions, does not have those that the government itself has said, we do not place any institution, we do not abolish it, nor is there anything else special. Perhaps this will be the basis for a new government, a ruling coalition that will seriously tackle operational instruments to develop a real entrepreneurial environment, and this could be the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, this amendment seeks to ensure that the country has a strategic and development programme in the area of entrepreneurship promotion. I agree with the speaker that the very content of this law is not how much or that this law is just a novelty of what we have already had, but in a slightly more up-to-date rhetoric, and therefore it is necessary to force the government to have a strategic programme. Yesterday I mentioned that on Tuesday I was here at a symposium in the state world on "how to increase added value". Representatives from companies to which this law is intended to apply have found that the government has no strategy. That what once lived within the Ministry of Science and Technology in promoting innovation has died in recent years. That's how it came out of the papers. I am afraid that these renowned research application experts, mostly in the field of applications, not in the field of pure fundamental science, have shown there a great deal of scepticism that in this country someone is seriously involved in development programmes and development strategies within policy. There was also concern that it would be even worse in the future. After the capital is organised in Forum 21, this will essentially be a state strategy, which already has the power to vote in the National Assembly, and there will be no room for those from smaller enterprises in fact. In fact, we are trying to force this amendment, as I have already said, that the government is presenting strategic development programmes to us and that it is working on the basis of these strategic development programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	The word gets France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	This law is certainly only a document opening up the possibility of action or the possibility of regulating this area. Whoever expects concrete action in this law would say the executive act of the very desires we all have in this area, then he is wrong. The law is just so set that it opens up the possibility, sets the criteria, I'd say, in a way, the index, how to proceed. However, this article makes it slightly clearer, namely, who will then put in place implementing measures or a programme of measures. This is the government that will adopt such a programme on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy. Nice! This means that, in fact, by this law, we give the green light to begin the procedure and leave everything else to the government for mercy and mercy. I don't think that's good. We are the legislative branch of the government that is actually laying down the rules of the games that the government has to stick to. Also with regard to individual actions, we need to lay down a framework for the overall programme to which this programme should go or more specifically limit or determine how to proceed in this area. Well, in fact, our amendment places only one commitment or commitment on the part of the government to adopt this programme of action, however, in accordance with the existing strategic and development programmes, which I hope will be adopted by this national assembly. Of course, this is what the Ministry of Economy is supposed to propose, and I hope that one day we will also experience that this ministry will have more weight than it has, and that this ministry will still be treated as being more important than some other ministries and also this area than is more important in Slovenia; although I am not an economist and I come from social activities, I am aware of the importance of this area. Indeed, in these programmes we well know how important it is, where emphasis is given. You know very well that according to the global business activity index Slovenia is almost on the tail. If the business activity index in the world is on average 8.8, Slovenia is now on index 4 and this index is still falling. For example, Finland, which was actually on the tail of ten European countries in 2000 with regard to this index, has only increased this index in the last year, from 2002 to 2003, by 2 indexes. This has been the result of their actions, where the main weight and importance have been given to reducing administrative burdens, promoting entrepreneurship in terms of education and improving the social security of entrepreneurs, as well as other areas. If we were to regulate and reduce only the administrative burdens of small businesses, micro-enterprises, and then create more friendly tax legislation for them and allow better access to business through national calls, better access to the award of parts of public or state calls, then I am sure that, in Finland's example, we could raise our entrepreneurship in a few years, rank higher in terms of the entrepreneurial index, and thus, in fact, resolve this already chronic problem of unemployment and the reduction of actually added value.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I don't want to go into the concept of law. In our first reading, we also said that this marriage is not new. This law enters as a substitute law for the existing law on the development of a small economy, but it did not have the effect of adopting the law through its life course. Therefore, this law should absorb in the concept the analysis of the situation, a real assessment of the weaknesses that we failed to realize under the previous law. Therefore, I say that if this country needed something to prepare for an effective entry into the European Union - although we have a programme - but unfortunately this programme was of a more political and marketing nature - then we would need a good national programme or a development programme for the economy. This is a national basis that gives the possibility of interdisciplinary accession from all branches of a given sector, as in this case the economic director, to step interdisciplinaryly into the legislation's objectives. That is why I think that even if we do not have it yet, sooner or later we will have to have a national programme or resolution on a national economic development programme. What we already have is what we're gonna have to have. And this starting point must be subject to, say, a law like this. With all the stimulating profiles to accelerate this segment of the economy into an entrepreneurial initiative or a people's initiative. It would not be bad, therefore, that in this Article 3 and 4 it would only be an extension that these programmes must be as sonic as they are for a national strategy, which, if not yet, must be. From practice, I will say so, because I know more about the area that I am covering as chairman of the committee, we have a national health care programme up to and including a good one. And if all the sectoral laws that were the basis for this national programme were to absorb what we had to do, then we would not have the same situation as we do in the health care system now, nor would we approach the health reform project as we are. It is therefore very important that we leave this extension in this law. I see him as necessary. My discussions will take place several times in this sense, and we have already said this before that we should also give a little more subsidiarity in this law and even if we stop here, the sequel is made. Thank you. By supporting this amendment, I think we can only improve the law no matter who the amendment is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, then Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Of course, there has been much more to this amendment, which is not part of this article, so I really want to limit myself to this article. Of course, in the very content of the documents, it should not be disputed that the national development programme adopted in a given area is the basis for the preparation of a programme of measures, as this Article speaks for the promotion of entrepreneurship. The Programme of Action in the second paragraph states: the Article must be in line with the rules for granting State aid. It shouldn't have been any different. Thus, the strategic document, which is, of course, more general, indicative in its content, and in its content, the programme divides these measures. That we urgently need it, of course, is not a question. However, the delivery, which would have said in paragraph 3, must comply with the existing strategic and development documents, in no way harms and confirms only what these documents carry within themselves and personally do not have any difficulty in supporting this paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Miha Brac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, in this regard, Article 4 and, of course, Article 5, which speaks of the content of this programme when we talk about it, we must be aware of the operational value of this law at all. In fact, we have proposed a formulation that is broader than what is written in 4. Article 4 refers to the validity of the national development programme and we refer to strategic and development programmes, which are more flexible and indicative. Why? Because it would be logical for a country to have a national development programme or programmes first, this would be followed by a programme of measures to be adopted by the Government by September 2004. The next step that enables the implementation of what is written in this law is the adoption of two regulations. One regulation concerns these instruments, the conditions, the criteria set out in Article 6 and one in Article 17 and both six months, for both acts of law, it is necessary to have, not first, a regulation in six months which refers to Article 6, paragraph 6, of the second and then we have two other regulations to be adopted within six months. Then there is a state aid scheme to be developed and, of course, a fund operating under this law can only operate on the basis of the adopted programme referred to in Article 4. What's the result? It follows that the actual applicability of this law will not be taken into account until next year, 2005. It is said that the law as it is now established is set for some period later and will have no effect this year. However, if we are now talking about these things, about the No programme, I will announce in Article 5 that I will be consistent with the rules of procedure. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Janko Weber wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. 4. Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 is certainly an important guide for the work of the Government and also for the development of the economy. However, I would point out some shortcomings or deviations from the desired objective, if I make myself more correctly, than if we take strategic documents into account in a consistent manner. Indeed, all the strategic documents are somehow linked or to the existing statistical regions that have been, I would say, adopted to obtain regional development aid, or to take into account the statistical regions that we have since before, so that statistics can be monitored for a number of years. The lack of all these documents is that, of course, statistics say one thing, but the reality within such a statistical area is of course completely different and fluctuating, let's say, in the central Slovenian statistical region of course, of the most ideal, best data to those who are, of course, far below what is, say, defined in these documents as the biggest problem. Like Prekmurje. Kočevska has worse information than Prekmurje. And if the equipment is only for strategic documents, then one of these areas in Slovenia is definitely out of the aid system. And so I would actually support the text of Article 4, as set out in the law, because, nevertheless, it allows the government, the ministry to react more, I will say, elastically or that it tries to monitor data, mainly from the existing network of small business centres and to engage in areas, one of which I have already mentioned, which in fact do not come to terms in these strategic documents. If we are talking about the Dolenjska region, the Dolenjska region as a statistical region or a south-eastern statistical region also has relatively good data. On the inside of this is Kočevska again, which is far away from this data. And economic development problems are, of course, present in this area mainly because of the processing industry, i.e., the small value-added industry, for an industry that does not have the means to modernise its production technologically and, of course, also the possibility of competing in demanding markets, which we are entering as a full member of the EU. On this occasion, I would, of course, point out to the government and the ministry that, in these programmes, the measures do not, of course, forget such areas, that they are available in the small business centres network and try to take them into account. I believe that this law will be truly better than if the SDS amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you, Janko Weber. Please, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	If I see it, the government has 20 minutes to discuss, so I would like to ask when it will take advantage of it. Once the debate on the article is concluded, it is no longer possible to discuss it. And to avoid repeating the mistake that the government is making in the National Assembly, that in the end what the package answers for all, I do not know how many members, I would ask the Minister to answer within every debate so that we do not then return. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. I've informed the minister that he can get a word in between whenever he wants. I expect she'll use it. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I would explain to my colleague Vebru only that it is not proposed here that the programme of measures should be coordinated, but that it must be consistent; this is a very loose term. Because we do not only have a strategic document, a regional development strategy, but we also have an economic development strategy, we also have development documents or a development programme plan 2002-2006 and so on. And here it is only meant to be in line with these documents, because some basic guidance from these strategic documents must also be followed by such a programme of measures. This was the purpose of this amendment, as we are saying that these measures should normally apply for a period of five years or for the period of validity of the national development programme. Just so much as an explanation that it would not be considered necessary to follow some of the guidelines contained in a strategic document at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	I forgot earlier, and I apologize for that. Does what is stated in Article 4 mean that, if there is no national programme, this law is practically useless? That's what I'm especially interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	May I give the floor to the Minister? Dr. Brace, can you repeat the question because it wasn't clear enough?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	You can if I don't count on it in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	I ask the Minister whether Article 4, as stated, means that if the government does not have a national development programme, then this law cannot be applied. For the Programme of Action must be in line with the national programme in force. And if there is no programme, then the action programme cannot be coordinated with anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. I now give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Maybe you could just answer the discussion on Articles 3 and 4 if you'll excuse me. As far as Article 3 is concerned, first of all with regard to definitions. I must say that our initial proposal has been such that it has in fact defined a peaceful undertaking as an undertaking where less than ten people are employed and its annual income does not exceed 470 million tolars. Here we have somehow adopted a recommendation for a directive of the European Union. However, the Committee on the Economy discussed this proposal, which limited five people and 30 million. And of course, with this amendment, which is supposed to increase 30 million to 50 million, no matter what definition we ourselves have proposed, we have no problems, that is to say that we agree with this proposal. As far as the definition of enterprises in general is concerned, I must say that we do not actually have a degree of freedom here, at least as regards the definition of a medium-sized enterprise and a small business, because we need to be in line here with the definition of this directive. However, a micro-enterprise is a definition recommended by the Directive and precisely because of what has already been said today, particularly by Member Drobnič, to allow this definition to adapt to the structure of the economy in a given environment. So here we have these options to adapt this definition to suit our current state and, of course, allow for faster growth and employment in these micro-enterprises in the future. We also need to know that as micro-enterprises grow, of course, they move into a different category, that is to say in the category of small enterprises and further into the category of medium-sized enterprises. It is not a closed circle here, but by encouraging these small micro-enterprises to get a flight, they come in and close that hole, which was rightly also exposed somewhere, that of course we have a manca right from five further employees. But somewhere you have to start, and the incentive you give allows this company to develop and work faster and then grow into a small, medium, large business. As regards this definition of amendment to Article 4, I must say that we have already written in the original of the bill that the programme approved by the government on the proposal of the Ministry of Economy is, of course, in line with all the development documents in this area. I would like to point out that, however, the government today has an already adopted strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. It was also confirmed in the 2001 National Assembly. This strategy is being renewed, and also on the basis of this strategy, a document has been adopted in a sense of operationalising this strategy, a programme for effective entry into the European Union. We therefore believe that it is understandable that this programme of measures is in line with the strategic guidelines adopted at the moment, with the economic development strategy, then with the national development programme, then with this EPD, a single policy document to draw on structural resources. These are the basic documents on which, of course, this document is prepared. If it has to be written in this way in itself, I mean explicitly, then I don't think we have these concerns on our part to indicate that this goes with the current strategic and development programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate on the amendment to Article 4? [[Nobody.]] I conclude this debate. We're moving on to Article 5. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has been tabled. Who wants a word? My friend Branko Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you. Only for a little while. If possible, if you agree to simplify this introductory sentence a little bit, because my assessment is that somehow this programme of measures, which are somehow also written below, determines the use of those public funds that are available in the state budget and other resources. It seems to me that there is too much misunderstanding about the written measure on the measure and so on that our proposal simplifies the matter a little. This is mainly the case with regard to the use of public funds, which is also described below. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you. Frace Cuckoo gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you. The article itself below in the indents is very well written and of course who would not be in favour of promoting entrepreneurship, innovation, improving access by businesses to funding sources and so on. However, we all know that these measures will not be recorded or programmed in a single document, in a decision of the government, in a decision to be drawn up by the Ministry of the Economy, but all these things are dispersed in many laws. Even if this is the case, let's say, of course, what we would like very much, to simplify, as already mentioned, the accounting of micro-enterprises, to simplify entrepreneurship or to improve entrepreneurship legislation and the like. All these things are different. In doing so, I fear that the things written here will remain well written and we will not be able to realize what we have written here. Just a case in point, the second says that we will promote innovation and improve the conditions for the development and transfer of the latest knowledge into economic practice and so on, and of course also encourage entrepreneurial investment in R & D. It says it right here. Yesterday, however, we rejected the amendment of the People's Party to the 49th Article of the Business Tax Act, which reads as follows: A taxable person may impose an additional reduction in the tax base of 10% of the invested amount in research and development equipment. The proposal was to raise at least 20%, but you refused. And so it will happen to all other elements, in all other laws. It's beautifully written here, and you're going to do this, the government's coalition, except for the SLS, which has proposed an improvement, you're going to run this idea all over the place. We note the inconsistency of this government, the inconsistency of this policy in those matters which are extremely important for this country. And, of course, allow me or excuse myself, but that's how I feel, and in many things, this law is just a pre-election beauty, and I doubt that this coalition is serious about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	The word is Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In many ways, Mr. Sugar, I cannot agree with you. However, to discuss Article 5 and the amendment proposed by your Group of Members. I am afraid that the simplification, Mr Kelemina, as you said, of course creates the possibility of not ensuring transparency in the use of public funds, because you are deleting the important indicators listed here and should contain them. I think Mr. Bayuk would be very bad. Look, you say "the action programme sets out measures, instruments and indicators to monitor the effectiveness of public spending in the areas..." And you delete and say, "The action programme determines the use of public funds in the fields..." It is said that when preparing the programme there will also be no commitment to identify measures, instruments and indicators to monitor the effectiveness of public spending. This is of utmost importance to me, at least because transparency in the use of public funds is not ensured otherwise than that we set out all the necessary indicators, indicators and so on, and we are tasked by the competent authorities to monitor, by these indicators, whether public funds have achieved their purpose for which the Ministry gives them. Therefore, I ask the proposers to reconsider here, because I think they did not want to achieve this purpose, as they have explained, which is now problematic. I think that their interest is the transparency of public spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Well, if I can just continue here, where you just finished. It can be understood as you say. However, this Article 5 is very similar to Article 8 and then we see that it is not only a matter of repetition, but that the practice of the legislator is, in fact, continuing, that it is very hospitable and that it uses many words, which in themselves do not have any meaning in this law. That is why we have tried to focus this debate on the issue of spending resources, because in fact this law is the most talked about in one way or another. In other words, once again, this Article, which deals with the content of the Programme of Action, is the basis for adoption then - I will literally read - "the regulation setting out instruments, more detailed conditions, criteria and criteria for the allocation of funds". You see how many of these hospitalitys are -- measures, instruments, indicators in the program. Then we have a regulation, instruments, more detailed conditions and criteria. Then, in Article 9, we have "the way of keeping and the content of the record" and so on, "the additional conditions for the provision of individual services are laid down by the Minister responsible for the economy," another sub-legislative act, and in Article 17, for example, "more precise conditions, criteria and criteria and procedure for the award of public authority are specified in more detail by the Minister responsible for the economy". I mean, I know you need some submarital acts that regulate the area. However, when we speak in Article 5 of this article about the need to remove administrative obstacles, we are also setting them up with this law. We always invent new and new acts and lay down responsibilities for things that are unnecessary. What kind of law, to create a pleasant, favourable entrepreneurial environment, does it say, for example, that entrepreneurs will need to establish businesses, I don't know, for less than two months? We know exactly what it says in the coalition contract you signed and what the actual result is. In Slovenia, an entrepreneur cannot set up a business at a reasonable time, so it takes two months and more and, of course, has to open a lot of doors. It is still unclear how these administrative obstacles will be reduced, which are discussed in this programme. It's some kind of declaration, it's not the law. He's talking about reducing administrative barriers. But that's what they say all the time. We even had a minister's councillor who had a special interest in this. I'm not saying there were no results. For the last time at first reading, I even quoted a change in the company law, which seems very important to me. There is nothing to say, say, about one of the biggest pains of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, about payment non-discipline. czš, this is the area of the second law. I agree, but what you are writing here in Article 5 is also the area of other laws, as I think. Because there's nothing you can do about this program. I'm afraid these programs are going to be big, but they're not going to work. My colleague Tsukati mentioned yesterday's case. If I add to this tax relief, which is nothing if we are talking about this law that we discussed yesterday, the law on corporate income tax. And you too, Mr Vice-President, had a great debate yesterday in this regard when you mentioned that in your previous position as an entrepreneur you had significantly better conditions for creating an entrepreneurial environment than they are today, and greater facilitation. It makes me feel a little uncomfortable to say that this law now opens the door to an entrepreneurial environment, but if in real life we see a lot of obstacles that other laws, of course, prescribe, and I wonder what the purpose of this law is. In Slovenia, about 60% of the population occupies our middle layer. And this medium layer is an essential part of medium and small entrepreneurship. And this middle layer, as we saw yesterday, will also now be the most taxed and have the least relief. How, then, should he deal with entrepreneurship and develop in the beautiful entrepreneurial environment prescribed by this law? This law does not address the key problems of setting up small, medium and micro-enterprises. I don't see any special incentives here for a man to go into entrepreneurship and risk his resources and he's in debt and I don't know what else. I also miss, even in this Article 5 or then in the 8th, because things are very covered up, they keep repeating. There is nothing about European entrepreneurial culture. That's not the point, but it's some law you call modern law a modern law. There is no spirit or hearing about European entrepreneurial culture. This includes a provision in this regard. My impression is that this is another technical law. Although he doesn't know the real concept, you've obviously conceived another technical law, which, like this, will do nothing to contribute to the boom of entrepreneurship in Slovenia, and we assure you that we will not initiate any similar measures to this technical law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. A trifle man has a word to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Here, perhaps even Mr Brejc would not agree with him about not triggering, depending on what kind of people will read it and what they will do. Just what I mentioned earlier, that the law has predispositions, all that the world's entrepreneurship philosophy knows, somehow appears in a vocabulary, completely fine. But everything that is happening in this reality in Slovenia shows that we are not going in this direction. Indeed, a number of things happen, but what he mentioned, payment discipline Paying non-discipline began with the state itself, so in incoherence to small businesses, to those who were in public contracts, it sullied them because they couldn't stand it. [[...]] Why small businesses? Because they ended up in this payment chain. The larger ones have already survived, especially through some form of state intervention. The second thing that destroys small businesses is for sure overcrowding, bureaucracy. The last time an entrepreneur called in my office, who has a more varied activity and said, Mr Drobnič, what should I do, I have to be a mandatory member in three chambers. But I got a little or nothing from them. I'm paying. It's time to change your mind. Not to understand that I want to get rid of the chambers, but another principle of action. Perhaps if we remove the obligation of the Chambers, especially those that do not really need to be, even if they have public powers, there is still no need for them to be mandatory members of the Chamber. In short, they work on a different basis. If they do well, all the members will become members of the Chamber if they have any. These chambers behave in the same way as the state administration, a bad state administration. Maybe it's a little better if I don't put everything somewhere. And some things happen well, but they would be much better, much more flexible, they would bite. Thus, if they receive money that falls directly to them, why should we work hard, for we are all slightly vaccinated to sit in the shade and drink beer rather than to chase the hot sun and to throw dirt or sand with shovels. That's human. Entrepreneurship is also developing on this basis. Even through these positive stimulations and negative ones. Administrative barriers. In the introductory part of the law, you mentioned that this anti-biocratic programme depends on all that will remove administrative obstacles to the funds being made available for this purpose. When people read it, they think it's funny. For something that we're going to eliminate, which is actually just the elimination of something that is ballast, we're going to spend so much and so much money and we've got money on the budget lines. It doesn't sound good, I'll tell you it doesn't. And I'd throw it out. And don't waste that money on it, just here in Parliament or if there's anything in the state administration, remove those obstacles that are and will be brought to life by the development of entrepreneurship. Only the natural movement of man is creativity. The task of the state is to act primarily as a night watchman. When people cross the line that we have agreed on together, then the state will come, or else it will not stop people. Like children, adults also have a natural desire for development and innovation, for creativity and many more. But we, with legislation, mismanagement in the state administration, are killing this initiative, doing obstacles, smiling, closing doors. Instead of taking sides with them, instead of telling a counselor or a government official what he cannot do, I should say how to do it, how to achieve this goal, not by breaking the law and not by abuse of the law, but by making it work. When such a state administration thinks, it will be better, certainly, and when the government and the ruling coalition make comments or amendments that release this initiative, as we mentioned in some laws, that it will listen and do so in operational laws, otherwise it is a dead letter on paper. But we will be able to make good use of this program if we get into a position of implementation, and every government has the opportunity to do so, if it's not up to them, not this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Branko Kelemina has a word and then Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you. I would only say this in relation to this amendment that perhaps this proposal is not the best. I admit it's not. But look, if we look at something, things are so vaguely defined that God has mercy. We, for example, have in the definition of terms in the last two indents what measures are. The measures are surrounded by targeted activities and so on. What are instruments? The form and method of spending public funds are intended to implement measures and so on. However, the indicators, which are extremely important or at least one of the important segments of this bill, are nowhere, nor in the definition of what they should be, nor in this article. I'm telling you the truth. Article 5 speaks of the content of the action programmes. And you say, this can be read like this, look, "the action programme sets out indicators to monitor the effectiveness of spending public resources in areas," but the indicators are not mentioned here. Where are the indicators, how are they determined? It's true, I don't know, a very precise thing. And I admit that our proposal is bad or lousy as well, but this formulation, which is here, is basically a multiple repetition, but it could only be written "the programme of measures defines instruments in the following areas" or, I don't know, "programmes and instruments". There's not much written or written about indicators, and it's a very undefined thing. We can withdraw this proposal, but perhaps it would make sense for this amendment to be adopted and for these things to be broken down, and more precisely to be written below in the third reading. If it makes sense, if it doesn't, it doesn't. I don't care, but this marriage is going to be very difficult to implement because it's undefined, it's inconclusive, it doesn't have enough articles. I'm sure you could have at least a few more articles to be more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. There was much to be said, but it would require an answer, but maybe just one. If at least one solution is good in this law, let me tell you that it is at least one, then it is a new financial instrument providing initial and risk capital. It listed everything that's not, what's not, it's just a pomflet. It's not like there's at least one instrument to comfort you. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The amendment is different from the goals you're defending when you speak now, so I'm just warning you that it would make sense to withdraw it. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	I am very pleased with what Mrs Krebs says, because I find that only one thing is good in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	My friend Kelemin. You raised your hand. Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	I would ask if the Minister would say whether this article has any purpose in correcting it. If it doesn't make sense, then I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I agree with the debate of Ambassador Krebs. In fact, I think the amendment narrows down what you wanted to achieve with this amendment. However, I would also like to say that when we talk about indicators, we do not usually define indicators because it clearly states that they are indicators to monitor the effectiveness of public spending. And only certain concepts are defined, which are repeatedly used and are not in themselves clear. This is about indicators that can be from the number of employees, from the added value and the like. And it's not the custom for a marriage to be defined. Maybe that's because it was said, if you'll excuse me, I don't think this amendment would contribute to the improvement of the law. I would also like to respond to some opinions that have been put forward. The question is whether this law will bring anything this year. You have already quoted today the results of this international study, which we also know very well and was also one of the bases on which we were then preparing this law. And for the first time, I must point out that if we are looking at this global entrepreneurship index, as has already been pointed out on a global scale, then this is true, as has been pointed out - we are on the tail. But it is important to know that all countries, from Asian countries, are listed here, which are characterised by the high level of small businesses or the establishment of small enterprises because of this need for self-employment, because there are no other opportunities for income generation; or whether this is the case with Latin American countries and others not to list them. This has been very clearly studied in literature in this area for ten years to not contribute to increasing efficiency but are important. They're important because they make it possible for some people to survive. However, if we take this index and only calculate it within Europe, where Slovenia is also a member of the European countries, then we can find that Slovenia is not on the tail between the European Union countries, but we are somewhere in the middle we have even a better index compared to some countries than Germany and so on. Even compared to Finland. Finland has taken a big step forward, but according to a number of indicators - at least according to the latest indicator, which was also presented at the entrepreneurship day in Brussels organised by the Commissioner for Entrepreneurship, Innovation, then also covers the field of information technology and the like - it has proved that we are in this area of volatility, which means, measuring, entering new businesses and adapting to the challenges of technological change, our level of volatility is higher than, for example, Finland. The entry of companies was also positive, while the entry of companies in Finland was negative. Thus, we must take into account the different indicators and have an overall picture in this area, so that we can then say whether we are more lagging behind or less lagging behind in the area of entrepreneurship for a country. The second thing I would like to stress is the question of whether this law will bring anything this year. Bo. He'll bring it right in the financial field. This is also the case - if you look at because you already quoted GEM - that entrepreneurs assess exactly the underdevelopment of financial instruments as the first obstacle factor for their growth and the creation of new businesses. This is documented in this study of GEM as well as in our national studies. And this is where the biggest effects will be this year. There was talk about an administrative environment and the like. Of course we're aware of that. As stated in the explanatory memorandum and what I have also said in my exposition, certain measures will have to be taken to facilitate business operations. I can tell you that, right now in the government, we have had our first consideration of the proposal for amendments to the company law, where we have just proposed certain changes that are binding on or on the issue of keeping a business register, on the issue of keeping books, on the issue of taxation under the standardised income system. In short, these are all the issues that we can resolve under this company law. I expect that with these proposed amendments we will also succeed and with your full support, even if we will make this proposal for a law, which we also need to make in order to harmonise the two directives that have emerged recently in the EU, so that these proposals, which we in the GAG and also point out, will be as successful as possible to create, enter and operate these small businesses as possible and as less bureaucraticly as possible. These changes are and are expected to be proposed at the next meeting. As to the fact that we are introducing some new restrictions, it was somehow said, I must say that if we want to give public authority to someone, but somewhere we need to expose the system, we need to know who we are giving it to. And you wouldn't care if someone who isn't qualified to do that or if they did some service for small businesses in a worse way than the existing institutions. And that's all we're gonna fix with these. Second, it's a record. There can also be no disorder here in the country and elsewhere, there is no such disorder in the market economies, as we have also followed the example of how this is regulated in other countries. Then this is a regulation along with a state aid scheme, which is, of course, the obligation of every country that is and will be a member of the EU. I would like to point out that these proposals do not create a new bureaucratic environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, we are regulating the work in this area so that quality services will be available to compete in this area, because we know that this is really an important force to ensure the efficiency and quality of the functioning of individual institutions in this area and, of course, we also point out certain rules of the game, which we know for sure are still necessary in each market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	If you are all thinking that it would not make sense to do this Article 5 in the third reading, then I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. This also concludes the debate on Article 5. Dr. Berjc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	I thank the Minister for Response, and at the same time I apologize for learning today that Slovenia is more successful than Finland as regards the entry of small and medium-sized enterprises into the economy. I really haven't noticed that yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I turn to Article 7, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a debate on Article 7? Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you. I would just like to remind myself here that, while it is once again a mistake, I apologize, we have simply overlooked the amendment to Article 7 already adopted on the Committee. I would like to point out that the Minister herself, in the debate and on the Committee on the Economy, spoke about this in this article in order to grant this public authority on the basis of a public tender. We have now released this from this article. Here, if you look at it, you said exactly, Madam Minister, I have your magnetogram where you said: "In addition to the last novel in this law, there are also public powers to implement the programmes of action. The law provides that public and private legal persons acting in the field of the promotion of entrepreneurship may, for a certain period, be granted public authority by a decision on the basis of a public tender." Thus, on the basis of the public tender, it is said that this means a public tender, then in this article itself, if we are looking at the first or second paragraph now, and we have omitted this invitation to tender, but you have announced it in fact and it may be that it is one weakness, I do not know whether it is meant here that in any case the public tender must be that it is not possible to do so at all, I simply assessed it from your debate and then after the shortcomings of this article in order to write on the basis of a public invitation to tender, but it is a mistake that we have gone to correct the wrong paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Well, I'll be right back. Article 7 speaks of the performance of the tasks and of the programme operators. My view of this area is a little different again. The concept and the amendment put forward do not, of course, resolve what I believe should be included in the sectoral law. One of the fundamental principles of the European Union in modern and current times is subsidiarity, deregulation and regulation of a particular area. And in this sense, I would expect a different approach through some kind of red thread of this law, perhaps because I have spent a good time in an active life so far in the real sector, and I am somewhat unwilling in the second mandate to have a practical state dealing with, including the government, a huge public sector and the edge of the real sector, which is the only net payer that the state can make progress as such. Look, basically or, I would say, a representative of the area that this law deals most with is the Chamber of Commerce and, in part, the Chamber of Commerce. And one would expect that, given that the State has already had some confidence in this Chamber as a representative of a State and has already delegated to it public powers to carry out certain matters under this Act with additional public powers, this exercise would be entrusted to the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce has established infrastructure through district chambers and so on, with all logistics and with the best knowledge of the area covered by this Act. Therefore, I think it would be questionable on this basis to establish some new public institutions, agencies, offices and so on. All of this is once again the burden of the public sector or the expansion of some public sector. I don't know why we wouldn't hope for a little bit more in terms of self-regulation, self-control of an area to go across the hall, if in some context we already trusted her with certain things. In doing so, the Chamber, as the main representative and representative of the field of economy, also assumes responsibility. In particular, the State must establish good control over what it trusts, which it carries out within the framework of its public authority. So I think it's too bad that there's also the following. The Chamber of Commerce has a good network of district craftsrooms, really great sown around. The payers of membership and other contributions to the Chamber of Commerce are all these small, micro and other entrepreneurs. And I don't know why we shouldn't raise these centers, these district halls to a slightly higher level. Now it appears that the district chambers themselves come before the mayors and so on with the idea, come on, but, start here, I don't know, at Cerknica, at Vrhnika, where I know more, another accelerant centre of the small economy. And we will have two entities that will share expectations and ultimately responsibility for the development of this area for which they have set up a chamber. It is therefore a little repugnant that my view in this sense may be a little far-fetched to entrust such powers to the system present. However, it is important to control the country and, of course, to control it within the chamber, as it does with the authorities. To some extent, this amendment provides a greater opportunity in the sense of a public tender or invitation to tender for a Chamber of Commerce, a Regional Chamber or, under the second paragraph of this Article, the Ministry may only specify to grant this authorisation. I think, and many of my fellow thinkers, that we should let go of this self-regulation and perhaps the most successful. In this context, the current law on the development of the small economy has also failed to record the result. We went to some kind of networking, new networks of accelerant and different centers. As such and district chambers of commerce, however, they did not happen to do what they were supposed to do in such a system. They know the situation on the ground, they know the trouble of setting up some d.o.o. or s.p.a. etc. They know the torments of payment disciplines, non-discipline. They know the importance of an administrative worker, who is important only by preventing someone from returning to him three times, four times and thus important. But the procedures are going slowly. With this I also conclude more or less the attitude of the Slovenian People's Party towards this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	It is quite clear that Article 7 does not comply with the Law on State Administration, which provides that the Minister shall, on the basis of a call for tender, give public authority. That is why, of course, our amendment needs to be adopted. Sooner or later. Of course, I would be interested because it is an institutional structure of the entrepreneurial environment, which is in fact the situation in Slovenia. So far, we have had an acceleration centre for a small economy, which continues its activities under Article 20 of this Law. We currently have a public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of a small economy, which under this law will be renamed the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. In the first paragraph of Article 7, however, we refer to the fact that the tasks and programming of the creation of an entrepreneurial environment are carried out by the State through a public institution to promote entrepreneurship. It's probably this PCMG. Then he says, or public agencies to promote entrepreneurship. Of course, it is not clear to me what this paragraph really means. Whether this means new institutional forms for the development of entrepreneurship or how many of these agencies there are now, funds and I don't know what. I fully agree with that part of Mr Brenčič's debate, which says that in Slovenia there are already many agencies, incubators, all that is meant to be used to develop the economy. Virtually every municipality is already developing an entrepreneurial environment and an incubator, which, of course, is established by the state or local community, is also financed from it, and the actual effects of these investments or this money are somehow not seen enough. That is why, in this law and in the explanation of the law, at least I lack information about how many of these institutions are in Slovenia and what their effects are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you. And Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Mr. Brace, I cannot agree with you that the amendment needs to be accepted. The amendment reflects the misunderstanding of this provision. The right to public authority must be made available to all those who fulfil the conditions and criteria. We have a 17th article that defines that. Change in the name of the State instead of the Minister responsible for the economy which may grant a public authority which does not change it or does not specify it. The Minister is, of course, indicated in an article that you replace with restraint, because the decision granting public authority is a legal act which cannot be issued by a State but on its behalf by law a certain person. However, the requirement is, of course, fully covered by Article 17 and clearly defined conditions. Also, Mr Brenčič, for my view, the added value of the law has also been added to the work when it enables the development of new services according to the needs of businesses and the involvement of the enterprise sector itself in the implementation of the law, by conferring public powers and the status of operation on the public interest of all those who show a high level of competence for this. According to my assessment, it provides greater efficiency, the quality of service delivery and the use of public resources, since, with public institutions such as PCMG, services for entrepreneurs based on acquired powers can also be provided by other most qualified institutions and businesses, so I can read it. Last but not least, Mr Brenčič, I believe that this will result in a balanced development and delivery of services for entrepreneurs and businesses throughout Slovenia. This is why the law in this part of this solution, which I believe is also a contribution to coherent regional development, as it enables and directs the development of a network of these support institutions for entrepreneurship, as I have already said, throughout Slovenia, as well as the development of specialised services, development centres, technology centres for individual activities and groups of enterprises where they operate. So I think going back to some frameworks that society, I think, is growing up, wouldn't be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. One more time, Dr. Brace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Earlier, Mr Kelemina, as the proposer of this amendment, said that the word "state" and "minister" had probably been misphrased. I'm not getting into this, but I was talking about another thing. If, in the second paragraph of Article 7, we are talking about the Minister giving public authority and at the same time looking at Article 17, we see that the second paragraph of Article 7 is superfluous, as it is written, because the procedure for public authorisation is regulated in a specific article. However, if you have decided to do so, I do not know why, but that is how you decided to write the paragraph in Article 7, then it must be written in the manner it is appropriate as stated in Article 17, because it must be clearly stated that it is a matter of public authority. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you. One more time, colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Mrs Irma, all I would say is that I think it is unnecessary for the country to develop two parallel network systems where the country is well-managed. I argue that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce or Industry has already established such a network that, given that it is a chamber to which the State has already passed public powers, it also has certain powers with regard to the implementation of this law and would, in fact, be able to carry out this infrastructure, this network, which is not even improving and does not reach these acceleration centres and can thus continue to exercise these powers in the most self-regulatory and subsidiary manner. Of course, the state must expose control. Let's just compare the systems in the existing Member States of the European Union and you'll see how craftsmanship and small economies in Germany are running.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you. Does the government want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Brenčič, just for the same reasons as you claim that an instrument of public authority should be put in place for those who can be most effective in the preparation of individual services for small enterprises, because this public authority can be given to a Chamber of Commerce, a local centre or any person of private or public law. I believe that this is certainly a positive element of this law, because, once again, I will stress, it opens up competition in this area; competition is, as we all know, a driving force of efficiency. The next thing I wanted to say is that we must take into account the fact that the right to public authority must be accessible to all those who meet the conditions and criteria. Therefore, it is also such a dictatorship that this authority is issued by the Minister on behalf of the State. Since it has been said that this is a repetition of Article 17 and Article 7, I must point out that these two articles, as they are now written, have occurred at the request of legislation. Initially, we had this in only one article, and then it was said that it must be for the sake of clarity of the two articles. Just so that we do not go forward in the discussion, our proposal was similar to yours, if I may say so, Mr Member. Well, another question is asked - a public agency or a public agency. Actually, it's just one person, so to speak, the current PCMG. At present, the PCMG is a public institution, thus opening up the possibility of becoming a public agency, nothing else. It's just one thing. But all the rest are institutions or companies - of course, companies are not set up by the state, anyway - no, they are, of course they are, sorry! These are companies not established by the State or established by the State because they are no longer established today and, of course, certain institutions whose founder is not a State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you. Can I close the debate? Would you like another word for Article 7, Mr. Brenčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I fully accept your performance, but I do wonder. The latest analysis or statistics are not the most encouraging. And then I wonder what the mission of PCMG was. Now we're just painting it here. Something doesn't add up here, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you. Yes, you can, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Just a sentence. For this we introduce competition in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	I find that no one wants to discuss Article 7 and the amendment anymore, so I conclude. We're moving on to Section 9. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment here. Who wants a word? Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'd just like to explain it for a moment. Already in the general discussion, we have somehow pointed out that certain conditions for the granting of different permits are a little harsh. You say that operators of an innovative environment who meet the conditions to operate for at least two years can be entered into the records. We have estimated that this is a somewhat overly discriminatory provision that we simply exclude someone who can also be very capable in some area from this framework. Thus, according to our assessment, a person in one year can prove himself able to carry out some of the tasks required by this provision by simplifying or lowering the thresholds set by this Article for individual entities. If that's acceptable, it is, but if it isn't, it's gonna stay the way it is. But I think that this is why a number of people are disadvantaged and will have to wait a long time for two years to pass in order to meet the conditions for the implementation of some of the requirements set out in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Article 9, as set out in the second paragraph, of course, would say: good, as some of the special tasks of the innovative environment, in particular the innovative environment programme, need some expertise, some practice, international comparability and so on. However, if we look at the definition of these bodies of an innovative environment, as set out in Article 3, it seems to me that it would nevertheless suggest that we support our amendment and also acknowledge this possibility that someone who has a one-year practice can be innovative, perhaps even more so than someone else who has been doing it for 10 years. I would also like to advocate that we try to mitigate the conditions somehow, because innovation is not something that happens on the basis of some long-term experience. This can happen by chance, it can happen, I don't know, to someone who has a very rich private experience and decides to go into entrepreneurship and a person who is an expert in the field, for example, goes into entrepreneurship, does an incubator, I don't know what, but since he's not two years old, we're not going to give him anything, because he's a formal condition for two years. But he can be an expert. That's why I think we're here a little too hard and I would really like to appeal to some way of mitigating these conditions. Madam Minister, it may seem strange that I, as a university professor, am paralyzing with the last indent, "have internationally comparable references". Of course, it is important that we have internationally comparable references, but in this case I would not insist on this line, because this is evident in various ways that can be very loose. Someone will deal with extremely extensive international references, but he will do nothing in his life. If I may give one very - I forgive myself in advance - perhaps an inappropriate Sufi saying that a donkey, surrounded by books, is not yet an intellectual. He doesn't care if he's loaded with pollen or books. So, a man has to show something. He has knowledge and shows something, and let us allow him to show that knowledge. And they put in place as few restrictions as possible that hinder capable people to prove themselves. I therefore propose that the last indent be simply deleted. Slovenia is thus a member of the European Union, and thus this special criterion, based on our Slovenian view of the world, let us simply delete it and go there for one year. But, of course, we didn't write this in the amendment for the last indent, but I did talk about it in the last debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. My understanding, therefore, of giving authority in this fourth chapter, when we are talking about an innovative environment and furthering, of course, the procedure for the allocation of resources for the financing of services to those entered by the Ministry, was that this is not about establishing or supporting the creation of new institutions, but about supporting the quality development of existing ones, so that they will provide the best services to businesses. And if this criterion were to be lowered - I think that the debate went this way - we would probably encourage too many initial initiatives before they were established and adopted by the companies that need these services. I think it would be easier for the Minister herself to answer, to explain this dilemma. I think that for two years in the Member States of the European Union, even more time is needed for such entry into the register. I think it's important to understand that the authority here is trustworthy. When you get confidence whether it's enough for a year or two, the proponents say two years, and I think it would be necessary here to think in this direction, whether you gain confidence in a year or two, if this is my thought in monitoring the debate, when this law is adopted, of course it is on the ground, so that it is to enable the quality development of the existing ones and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Dr. Brace, before you would have this replica that you're suggesting, do you want to complete your amendment to the parliamentary group when you mentioned it earlier? Before I conclude the debate on this article, you must at least announce it, and you can also form it later, but verbally try to present it in order to take it into account when voting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you for this opportunity, Mr Vice-President, if I may orally state my amendment to Article 9, it would read: 'The fourth indent of paragraph 9 shall be deleted. Articles." Then I'd put it in writing later, if that's what it takes. I don't know how we're gonna do this procedurally. And if I may, I will proceed immediately. I would be very pleased, Mrs Krebs, if there were very large initiatives, very large initiatives in this area. This would be a good sign for entrepreneurship, and this would prove that the law proposed by the government has encouraged people to deal with and think about an innovative environment. What did I mean when I said before that we had to cut it short? Just an example, if you'll excuse me. Let's say that an individual from an already existing body of an innovative environment starts, which is, say, an exceptional expert and a recognised person in this area, starts his activity, decides that he will no longer be a member of an entity that is already operating, but will go, as we say, on his own. We all know that he is an excellent expert, that he may even be the soul of a certain cluster or incubator. But watch out, because he's going now according to our intentions to extend the entrepreneurial environment, let everyone who's capable of dealing with it, and now we're saying to him as an expert in this field, "Yes, now that you're on your own, you're gonna have to wait two years." That's what this is about. Let's not set unnecessary obstacles. If a man is capable, it will be one way or another. In the third paragraph, the Minister established that the method of keeping and the content of the records and the additional conditions for the elimination of individual services are laid down by the Minister responsible for the economy. And if these criteria are loose, the minister will have more room for manoeuvre, he will have too much freedom. But here I would somehow assume that it is to develop an innovative environment. Slovenia is among the last in Europe after innovation, in general. And if we are now talking about some innovative environment and innovative environment programmes, we must not put too high a demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Dr. Brace, the new amendment is no longer in effect. The deadline is up. Only the existing amendment tabled by the parliamentary group should you try to correct, amend. So you're going to change the amendment already tabled. All right, let's take that into account. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I think we're all in our own field. Mr Brace, this amendment does not speak of young innovative companies. This amendment, a chapter on an innovative environment, talks about the operators and programmes of the innovative environment, talks about those that the Ministry will record when they will work for two years and so on and will not be the last time the Ministry will allocate to them the budgetary resources for the provision of the services of the operators of the innovative environment that are entered into the register. But you have talked about young, innovative and so forth as to encourage them. I think it's a quest for confidence in the granting of public authority. So I understand from your speech that we're talking about other things, everyone's on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Another replica, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	I'm asking Mrs. Krebs to read a magnetogram of my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We can conclude the debate by correcting your amendment to Article 9. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amended amendment to this Article. I'm asking you to formulate it as soon as possible. We are moving on to the 10th Article, where the amendment is being tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. You want a word? Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Perhaps it is only that this amendment or, in fact, the whole article speaks about the provision of services by these bodies of an innovative environment. For example, in the second and third indents, it discusses the provision of services for the establishment and implementation of development services. According to my assessment, it should also be stated in the first indent, where the provision of a service is also concerned, that it is a matter of providing services to provide more favourable spatial and technical conditions for the creation and operation of enterprises in the early stages of development. Because in fact these bodies of the innovative environment are doing some services for someone else. This is just one such comment, if it is acceptable, it will, if not, not collapse the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I also read the amendments tabled by the opposition parliamentary groups with due attention, but sometimes I see from the explanation that an amendment is written just because it is. The amendment tabled in Article 10 and the reasons for your proposal are, therefore, consistency with the other indents in the article, which discuss the tasks of the institutions of the innovative environment. The first indent includes the provision of spatial and technical conditions for the operation of undertakings and the next two on the implementation of certain services. Therefore, the proposed uniform dictatorship, as you suggest, cannot be used for all three indents because it is not all about services. If we were to accept this amendment, we would really be inconsistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	I would like to ask that the Minister may explain this first indent, perhaps I misinterpret it. Does this mean, in fact, that the first indent means the provision of favourable spatial and technical conditions for operators of an innovative environment? Does this mean for companies to operate in early stages of development? As has now been written, I could understand that certain means are provided to provide favourable spatial and technical conditions for operators of an innovative environment. That's my thinking. I don't know. I'd like an explanation. I estimate that these innovative environmental actors are actually providing certain services for those new companies in the early stages and the conditions for setting up, operating temporarily under more favourable conditions, etc., as also set out in the following two indents. I'd like to ask if there's any further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The minister will try to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. This is really about rents, lower rents, and then also about technical equipment of premises, incubator or technology parks. The company that settles in the technology park or in the incubator, for example, has the opportunity to get rental space, which is lower than the market, so this is a rental and already technically equipped.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Just like a man reading it casually, yet something that amendment is justified in. These entities cannot provide better spatial conditions. They can prepare some bases, some starting points, or quite directly provide a better space. If that's the case, then it's okay, then it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Wait a minute, we'll give everyone a chance. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. It's about ensuring. The value of such institutions, technology parks, centres and the like is also an important component of the development of an entrepreneurial innovative culture in other countries and is their value. As a result, the rules of the game for these institutions must also be clearly laid down and it may now be more understandable why some of the articles which affected this area were necessary. It's about security, yeah. Today we have, say, an example of Ljubljana's technology park and 250 companies. That these companies are at an initial stage in this technology park is precisely why they were allowed to use their accumulative capacity not for high rents but for their own development. And today we have the example of BIA Separations, which is one company that is internationally famous in the field of biotechnologies. However, it has developed precisely in this technology park in Ljubljana and now after a certain period of time, because there is also a limit of up to five years, it can or may depend on the technology park, but for the most part up to five years, it also moves from this area because it has already been strengthened and is able to apply and compete in international markets.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	That's all I was gonna say. I estimate that it was not meant here in the first indent to provide more advantageous space for the operators of the innovative environment, because they are not able to perform the services at all if they are not established or if they do not have the space, because in Article 9, we said that they must have at least two years of practice and I do not know what other references, so it is not about them themselves, but it is about companies in the early stages of development, which are easy companies. That's meant. These bodies of the innovative environment actually enable companies in the early stages of development to provide them with more favourable spatial and technical conditions, enabling them to do so with their services. That's how I picture it. Now, if I think wrong, in short, the subjects of the innovative environment cannot benefit from this because they are contractors. [[....]] That's my comment. But if you think it's different, then I don't know, because of me, we can remove it if you don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate because I don't see Comrade Kelemin anymore. You said I could withdraw. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Madam Minister says I don't have to, then I'll step down. Oh. K.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	So you're pulling out. Thank you very much. This also concludes the debate on Article 10. We're moving on to Article 11. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment here. You want a word? Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	I'd just like to try and explain it again for a little while. We assess, as we have written in the explanatory memorandum, this is in the third paragraph of Article 11, which states that the Minister responsible for the economy appoints a commission to assess the applications and proposes the level of budgetary resources to finance the provision of services. I do not think the Commission can determine the level of the budget. I do not know how the Commission should determine the amount of the budget for the provision of services to an individual body of an innovative environment. This is defined in the tendering procedure as the amount for the specific funding of the individual entity. Thus, the Commission would not be able to determine the amount of the budget, because it is safe for you to write, when you make the call, to what extent, to what extent an entity of an innovative environment will be able to participate or it is meant that they will then be within a certain range, that you will make a call within a certain range from - to that of being able to receive some funding or fix it. For example, if he meets these conditions, he will get so much money or how. It's a little vaguely written in my opinion, now you can explain it if you can. The Commission itself should not, in my opinion, determine the level of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you. Can you answer the Minister for a moment?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. This is about this Commission proposing that, on the basis of the criteria in the tendering documentation for individual services, it assesses how appropriate the allocation level would be. And then also because there are different services, then these proposed resources for individual services must also, of course, be added together if you allow me to put it this easily. That is why I think that this dictatorship is appropriate and established, and once again I stress that the Commission does not determine because it cannot, but proposes, on the basis of criteria, a certain amount of resources for individual services.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Just so that the amendment candidate sees things even more clearly. I think that the procedure is taken from the existing procedures that we have in the country to spend public funds, which is under the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the law on public finances. I don't think if things were different down here, it wouldn't be right. This makes the basic text more appropriate to the procedure envisaged for the use of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Then I withdraw it if you think it's clearly written. I don't want to cause any trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	So you withdraw this amendment and I conclude the debate on Article 11. We're moving on to Article 16a. The New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I don't think this amendment can be supported. This is contrary to the way the debate is going on and I am surprised that it is actually being tabled. Above all, the explanation does not seem acceptable or inaccurate to me. I understand this article by allowing the government to empower other financial institutions to extend not only the range of operators of this, but also the extent of the funds, in particular the risk capital, which will then enable entrepreneurs to have easier access to, say, bank loans and the like. I think it is highly desirable that banks and other financial institutions also set up venture capital funds to promote entrepreneurship and thus actually help and accelerate the development of entrepreneurship. This is also being discussed within the EU, the European Parliament. My friend Brace is with us, and he knows it. Which says it would have a negative impact on the banking system, that's not true. This would have a positive impact, as it would allow credit to then be granted and would, in fact, expand the business for the future if entrepreneurship were to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you. Irma Pavlních Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I fully agree with Mr Ferry's arguments. The article refers to the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the power to implement measures to improve access to funding sources to another financial institution - I will say, at home, an open door for the development bank. Thus, this article only opens up the possibility of contributing to flexibility in this area, which is what we all follow in providing the necessary support environment to the economy. The proposaler in this law, as I said before, is not only this good solution, Mr Brejc, as you used my statement earlier, but in the absence of time and in a possible violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have said only one thing to you, which is one of the good ones in this law, given your implementation, that there is nothing good. So, the government, I think, has really followed the objective of improving access to funding sources and in this context strengthening the role of the current public fund for the small economy. Or at the same time, it should also close the possibilities for other forms of organisation - I am assessing that it does not make sense. Modern trends in Europe are also moving in the direction of open opportunities in this area. I think that the legal regime offered by Article 16a must remain exactly as we all want to achieve the objective of offering an adequate financial environment, adequate financial instruments to our entrepreneurship. This is certainly not the way to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	You said before, at least one advantage or something, something like that -- a good thing about this marriage. I agree with you that it is mainly one or at least one. Okay, there are differences, I agree, okay, but I didn't want to abuse your discussions in this direction. With regard to Article 16a, the granting of power and what Feri Horvat said, of course, I can agree that it is good to open up room for others. But if we look now at how many of these articles are in the law that speak of the granting of power is not an amendment - and of course this is my mistake, I have overlooked in haste - Article 17, which also speaks of public authority, where international references are also mentioned, it is about the implementation of the programmes of action. Now we can no longer fix this as far as I know the rules of procedure. But it is really embarrassing that we have such firm conditions also in Article 17. But if we open another Article 16a, giving power to another financial institution, and then this law is no longer consistent, it is more like one Swiss cheese, it is full of holes through which an activity can be carried out. I'm afraid it offers the possibility of organ hypertrophy, institutions in this entrepreneurial environment. This is how I understand the proposaler, Mr Drobnič, that he wanted to narrow this place down in some way so that these institutions could expand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	Once again, I give the word Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace! Only with my humble household logic: more institutions generate a competitive environment, more a competitive environment, more cheap is money. And to this end, I think we are all following and, of course, we can justify giving the opportunity to compete in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Dr. Brace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	I'm sorry, but we're talking about those who are stuck to the state tent, and it's not a competitive environment, it's just another pig in the trough, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Since the government has a few more minutes, she will be able to respond. Let's say in Article 12 and with the concept of the law we somehow gave the Slovenian Enterprise Fund the general mandate to carry out these matters. While Article 16a stands well, the choice of another institution may require a public tender. This is good because for a public competition, the government will not be able to rotate matters in connected persons in a way that is unfortunately not connected in practice. But still, when will the moment the government decides that now the Slovenian entrepreneurship fund is no longer so, I don't know, autonomous, so capable of doing some things that it will then hold a public competition. While we generally trust the financial chapter of this law to this entrepreneurial fund. However, we do have one moment of mistrust or some question about whether things are going to go as well as the concept of law may expect. We may have an opportunity to learn a little about the purpose of the legislator or the lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	You don't have much time, mag. It's a trifle, but try it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Why do we have to compete with someone else? We will attack other financial institutions, including banks. It is not wise to take up space in this way for other financial institutions. Let this public fund do real good, including in a way that will be accessible throughout the territory of Slovenia, accessibility on the other hand. So it's pointless to build some more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the provision in Article 16a only opens up the possibility of a later merger of individual financial institutions in the event that this is shown to be necessary, because the existing capital would in fact be too weak to meet all the needs. It's just an opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. May I conclude the debate on Article 16a and the amendment tabled in this Article? Yes, you can. I conclude the debate. Article 20a, to which the amendments have been tabled by three groups of Members, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the meeting's timetable today in the framework of the vote at 19.55 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you all for your cooperation! At 12:50, we'll move on to the 7th item of the agenda. Until then, I'm taking a short break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Members of Parliament, welcome to all. We're moving to Treatment 7. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Defence Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I very much welcome Mr Minister and Mr Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Defence. And I give the floor to the representative of the government to further explain the bill. I'd like to take the floor with the Secretary of Defense, Dr. Anton Grisold. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for amendments to the Defence Act, which you have today in second reading, represents one of the last activities in complementing the system-wide regime of the defence area before Slovenia's full membership in the European Union and NATO. We will submit a proposal for a new general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2015 on the basis of a strategic review of defence in the coming weeks. This will enable Slovenia to function successfully in the collective defence system at the same time as one planned and coordinated continuation of defence reforms. The complementary amendment and the amendment of the law is, in our opinion, appropriate and means the fulfilment of all the key objectives of the current legislative changes that I have justified when presenting the bill. We have explained and reasoned on some issues in the debate on the Committee. We have also answered all the questions raised by the legislature. The Government also identified itself to all amendments and argued why individual amendments could not be supported. The fact that most of the issues have been clarified also confirms the fact that only one amendment has been tabled after the meeting of the parent committee. Dear Members and Members, one of the important reasons for the current legislative change is our obligation, which we have already undertaken in 2001, when we have discussed defence reform more extensively in Parliament, so that we will actually begin to resolve the staffing imbalances in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army. This is also one of the commitments we have made in the NATO integration process. In the past period, we have come to a new military structure and started to implement a professional army with a voluntary reserve, so it is no longer possible to delay the problem. We have been extremely restrictive in the search for legal solutions. For the solutions proposed, they have been looking for political consensus and support for all parliamentary groups for quite some time. Following the opening of the legislative procedure, there have been initiatives by the Union of Officers, also supported by the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, to enable the early retirement of members of the permanent composition of the territorial defence and the manoeuvre structure of national protection, which participated in the 1991 war under certain conditions and to recognise the insurance period by increasing their employment in territorial defence before 1993. These initiatives, which are of course legitimate, have also been given a place in an appropriate amendment. In its opinion, which did not support the amendment, the government clearly stated that only human resources mismatches are being resolved in the current law. Therefore, the mandate is also in the current long-term programme for the development of the military, which you have adopted in the National Assembly. However, in the case of members of the territorial defence and of the manoeuvre structure of the period of independence, this is not a matter of staff disharmony. The Government, and also at the Ministry of Defence, is fully aware of the importance and role of territorial defence and of the manoeuvre structures. On these grounds, the Slovenian Army later developed. The current legal changes are substantially narrower than the proponents and proponents of these early retirements want. In doing so, I am not even referring to the content of the amendment and to some open questions that arise and are widely listed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly at the meeting of the parent committee. In the Ministry of Defence, we are aware of some problems and open issues, particularly regarding the status and rights of veterans of the self-sustaining war. We are ready to help resolve them, as we have also offered the representatives of the Veterans' Association. Also in an interview on 17.3.2004 with representatives of the Veterans' Association with the Prime Minister, it was agreed that the veteran organisation would provide the Prime Minister with the most important open issues, and the Prime Minister had promised that the government would deal with them in an appropriate manner, depending on its powers. Other resources should be involved, not just defence. I also think that it is possible to resolve the issues raised by veterans in sectoral laws and not in this comprehensive defence. It's a veteran, like a pension or something. I am convinced that the content of the issues raised by this amendment is much broader than the objective of the current amendments to the Defence Act. A respected choir! I propose that you support and adopt amendments to the Defence Act in the text, as supplemented by the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Petan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! At its 20th meeting on 10.3.2004, the Committee of the National Defence Council considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on defence submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A group of first-signed members, Anton Anderlich, requested a general discussion on the draft law, which had also been carried out. The National Assembly considered the draft law before us at its 34th meeting and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. The Defence Committee continued the procedure and, at second reading, the members were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the proposal in terms of compliance with our legal order. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the political system of the State Council, which unanimously supported the bill. The members of the committee were also informed of the initiatives of the Slovenian Officers Association and the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia to submit the additions to the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Defence. The meetings of the Committee were also attended by representatives of the Government and the Ministry of Defence, representatives of the Association of Slovenian Officers, the Association of Veterans of the War for Slovenia and representatives of the services of the National Assembly. Until the deadline for the submission of amendments, this is until 4.3.2004, the amendments were tabled by Marija Ana Tisovic, Rudolf Petan, who, therefore, took the initiative of the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia and the associations of officers, and by the Democratic Party of the Retired. The Committee adopted the amendment of Mrs Tisovic's Ambassador to Article 3, which withdrew the amendments to Articles 4, 8 and 13. The Committee did not adopt the amendments to Article 5, to Article 16 and Article 17 of the DeSUS Group, to Article 17 and Article 17 of the Tisovic Group, to Article 26 of the DeSUS Group, to Article 24 and Rudolf Petan. In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal for a defence law, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 17, 24 and 31. After the discussion and the vote on the amendment proposal in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In view of the amendments adopted in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended proposal, which is under consideration today, which we are also discussing and will then vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first hearing on the draft law at its 34th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the amendments of 24.3.2004. We have one amendment, namely the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 24, so I am putting Article 24 and the amendment to this Article into discussion. I'm asking who wants the word. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. In the SDS, we proposed an amendment to Article 24, which is essentially a summary of the initiative given by Slovenian officers and the associations of veterans of war for Slovenia. I wouldn't lose words here about both relationships, but especially about the members of both organisations. In particular, in terms of what they have done for Slovenia and what the state of Slovenia owes them in essence. Their work has been particularly pronounced in recent times when their opponents on the other side of the line are searching for their space under the sun. Whether this is justified or not, it does not matter in this amendment. The amendment deals with those members of the permanent and military composition who worked in the territorial defence of the Slovenian army for at least 15 years and were members of the manoeuvre structure of national protection in 1990 and participated in the preparation and self-conservation of the 1991 war. However, they must be at least 30 years old, this applies to men, and 25 years for women, pensionable years to be entitled to early retirement with an 80% pension base. For every year more than 30 years, the pension base increases by 1% but not more than 83%. With the increase in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army's territorial defence, the working time is recognised only until 1.1.1993. Why do we feel in the SDS that it is worth supporting this amendment? It's also about harmonisation. Really, we have to admit that we have a certain discrepancy. Of course, this is not an obvious matter, but it is a matter that has emerged in the course of the development of our country as well as of our armed forces. We believe, however, that this mismatch should be harmonised, since the pension provision is full of 85% of the pension base, which I have listed, for 5 years longer than it was provided for in the 1995 Defence Act, under which those who have moved from the former Yugoslav army to the territorial defence of Slovenia could retire under such conditions. Nobody's telling them anything. We believe that this was positive when it was also adopted at the state summit to treat it this way. Last but not least, the events that took place at that time also took place thanks to such a step that they were only as they were, that there was nothing worse. Now we believe that this mismatch needs to be reconciled, levelled. We believe that the Slovenian state is somehow obliged to do so. With regard to the very explanation given at the outset by the Minister, of course we accept it. It must be acknowledged, however, that these amendments to this Defence Act, which have now been adopted, have already been agreed on for the previous amendment before the good year. But there was no agreement at the time. However, this does not mean that, now that we have reached the consensus that should have been reached in the previous amendment, we would not have reached any more consensus. The fact is, we also assess this in the SDS that it is true that it is also a financial asset. That's what we're admitting. However, we are convinced that this is not so much a financial asset that it is more of a goodwill to settle the matter. Of course, I welcome the opinion of the Minister, who said that the matter must be dealt with, that they are also aware of it in the government. But we also think we're going to do it sooner or later. The question is whether this will be the next amendment to the Defence Act or any other. Probably those people I've talked about and talked about in this amendment, it doesn't matter what marriage it would be. He could be in on it. It's important that this thing is resolved. I can also say this that we will probably not allow the adoption of this law if this amendment is not adopted. However, I can also say that we will do so with bitter taste. These people who are dealt with by this content would have deserved it if they had done it before. It is never too late and today, when we adopt this law at second reading, it would probably not be too late, but it would certainly be better if we accepted it today than ever before and would again seek political consensus to resolve it. To conclude only the last sentence I have spoken, I think I have repeated several times in this debate. Slovenia, the country must do so. The Slovenian proverb also says nicely: "Who is quick to give twice." We're a little behind, so we won't be able to give twice, but it would be nice if we did it once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marshich to the floor, then Mr Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members and in view of the explanation, the additional explanation given now by Comrade Petan must also confirm that, in fact, the role of both organisations, the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, as well as the associations of Slovenian newspapers and, in particular, its members and members is indisputable. In particular, in that part, I can fully agree with the role they played in the processes and processes of Slovenia's independence and, in particular, in their role in the self-serving war. The problem of veterans, veteran organisations, is actually happening in our country virtually immediately from independence. As I recall, despite not being a member of this esteemed National Assembly, I was then Secretary of Defence in the Municipality of Koper, and I have followed developments in detail. I can't say I've always felt that everything was going on in such a fair way. I have always had a personal position and a belief that the state must take proper care of its veterans, but this must, of course, be regulated in appropriate legislation, in an appropriate manner, fairly and equally. The proposed amendment is somehow beyond these basic objectives of amending the law on defence. That's what the Secretary of Defense said today, he also said on the Defence Committee. I would not like to see the bitter taste that my colleague Petan mentioned after today's debate and the results of this evening's results, focusing on all the content that these amendments to the Defence Act bring, but only on what has not been resolved, wanted. The basic objectives were already stated at the time of general consideration. These are supplements related to the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. Secondly, it is a matter of complementing solutions that address uncertainties regarding new system laws in the public sector. Thirdly, it is a gradual elimination of the so-called staff mismatches in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army. The proposal sought or wished to achieve the right to early retirement for members of the permanent and war composition of the territorial defence and the manoeuvre structure of national protection, and also to enable those people to work with an increase from, if I understand, employment to 1.1.1993. With this, they say, we will enable and help to eliminate these structural inconsistencies facing our defence ministry and our army virtually all the time since we adopted the basic strategic documents on the development of our armed forces. It has already been said on the Defence Committee that this amendment has several problems and problems in order to be adopted. First, it was said, it is not the subject of this law to address this subject, but there are others, the minister mentioned them again today. This is legislation dealing with veteran issues and it is legislation dealing with pension issues. Second. It is important that what Mr Petan made on the Defence Committee, which is practically the same, in the same form, in the same content as the Group of Members, made to him, what is also important is what the legislative and legal services are. Law enforcement says that the amendment is questionable for several reasons. I have already mentioned one, and another is that the period proposed here would have reached the time when the old law on disability insurance was in force and it was completely different from that of the beneficiary era. I don't think this solution is complete either. We have heard before that this is a major broader regulation of this area than was the intention of change itself. However, I think that one of the mistakes is also in the text itself, that, for example, it already lays down cumulative conditions in Article 1. And in the second part, which concerns the provision of working time with an increase, it is a retroactive enforcement of the insurance period, which is also inconsistent with constitutional principles. That's also what the law enforcement said. I believe that it will now, and a little bit in the undertone, Comrade Petan also mentioned this, to compare with something else. However, I think it would not be right and it would not be appropriate for us here to try to compare and re-enter some waters, manipulation, but to go in the direction of rescue and try to find solutions in other legislation that could properly regulate the areas for all those who have been wanted to be dealt with with with with with with the amendment. My personal opinion is that this amendment also discriminates. However, it discriminates because it deals only with the permanent composition and war composition of territorial defence and members of the manoeuvre structure of national protection, but does not think that there were also police members in the manoeuvred structure of national protection. The position of the North veteran organisation, I do not have a written position, but I have spoken to some who had some concerns that the introduction of such changes would somehow put those who were in the same organisations in the same position in the same position, but they had their primary place and task in the internal affairs bodies. Here is mentioned in the explanation of the 1995 law. In explanation, the proponents say that the law allowed the early retirement of JLA offenders. This approach was, of course, enabled by a constitutional charter, which means that they were in an equal position within this organisation. It is also true that the 1995 law has allowed for a number of other processes and processes that have allowed for these structural inconsistencies, which have also been brought to the attention of those for whom the applicants wish to further regulate certain benefits. It is also the case that 289 members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian army or then of the territorial defence were also granted a cross-examination of the lack of education by enforcing that law, with 69 permanent members and 31 employees in the administrative department of the Ministry being recognised for one stage. It means that, all this time, this law on defence for these people, which, of course, defended our homeland from the JLA attack, has also dealt with these benefits, in addition to the advantages that the Veterans Act has afforded them here, and, above all, has made sure that, given that they were, unfortunately, in most cases, members of the permanent composition of the territorial defence which they then overlayed, I will say, at the establishment of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces, they were largely without adequate education, and have met places where higher education and higher education were needed. It means that they have also been taken care that we do not accidentally go through the process of reducing our defence and security structures, especially I think here the number of members of the Slovenian army - in this process we all deliberately went into - so that we do not accidentally stay on the road or, as many others, we would like to say that we would not be accidentally forgiven. I am pleased that the motioner has said that they will not condition the adoption of the law if this amendment is not adopted. It is true that we could have dealt with this earlier, but it is true that we have been passing it for almost 10 years now, since the legislation was adopted, 12 years in practice since we have, and this solution has never come out in such a form. And now we're retroactively trying to solve something back. That's why I'm having second thoughts. I stress that I accept the legitimate initiative of these members of the territorial defence, which has come through two legitimate organisations, both veteran and officer, but I think that this amendment really has too many mistakes or shortcomings to support it. Once again, I support and also believe the Minister, who says that it is their interest, that this area is fully regulated, that it must certainly be dealt with with with with with all sensitivity and due care and that appropriate solutions must be found here, which will prove to be in the right place in the right laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Kebrich's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State! In our personal opinion on this amendment tabled by our fellow Member, Mr Rudolf Petan, we consider the following. With all due respect and recognition for the people referred to in this amendment, we believe that it is right for them to do so, but not in this law and not in the way of retirement, because our Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners represents the view that the pension is only the recognized right for which contributions have been paid. It is clear from this that such and similar cases and cases can be resolved by other laws, such as the Law on Victims of War Violence, which, on the other hand, has given recognition and war compensation for those atrocities and the damage that has been inflicted on these victims. Therefore, this amendment does not belong to this law and, unfortunately, we cannot support it as such. I reiterate, as I said in the introduction, that we will support in some other forms which will be in place, which will be justified and, what we would like to stress, which will cover all persons, all those citizens and citizens, or other nationalities, who were then willing to sacrifice their lives for our freedom to get their country, the independent Republic of Slovenia. Since I am speaking to say that I am very sorry that it is no longer possible - but it will be possible to say a lot in the third reading - because our Group has tabled three amendments and we can look forward to finding that for the second reading, a proposal of this law has been prepared to take many things into account from our amendments. Unfortunately, not everything, so in the third reading of certain articles, we will express our position, as we said at the first reading, where we had a general discussion, which we, too, have taken up, which has given certain basic points of reference, and I stress and repeat that the ministry and then the government have taken certain things into account. Our position has always been that before the constitution and before the laws we must all be equal, and therefore we do not accept such and different exceptions in the basic law itself, which speaks for the first time, of working relations, and secondly of the law on pension and disability insurance, which also concerns the proposed amendment, and for this reason I repeat and conclude: we cannot impose this amendment. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. So at first, I'd say it's nice to respect the actions of these people, but only respect, and they're having a hard time living. There's nothing to be done but praise. There's something else to be done. I would not like to aggravate here, because I am not currently a contributor to this committee either, but I would still say that we are in Slovenia, but I will not say that it was unjustifiable, that I have granted many years of pensions for categories where no contributions were paid. I'm not objecting to anything, I'm not criticizing anything, and I'm also saying that I'm not saying it was unjustifiable. But it stings me a little bit, but when I hear that right here, it's important -- but good. I would also like to say that in the SDS we have supported the law on the committee, regardless of whether our amendment has not been adopted, my amendment, because we are aware of the importance of the content even without this amendment and, of course, we support it. I would like to say that, on the Committee, we have considered this amendment to another article in the transitional provisions, where there is also a lot of other provisions and this content is included in the peaceful soul, but it would not have been wrong, but it was not adopted. It is true that we are aware of certain shortcomings, but allow the question. In what marriage did we have everything saved? In the law with 100 articles - 200 amendments - we have also accepted that details will be resolved in the act. In this case, it could be. This is said to be more of an object of some will, or, if you want, political coherence, I also accept such a dictatorship. We're aware of the current state of affairs. We also accept that not all categories may be covered, that we have released someone else, but that is why it is the amendment that others can contribute to the amendment, and that in the third reading we complete what is still missing. It'll be easier to complement those we've released if we accept our amendment than if we don't. That's a high probability. I would like to say that these categories of people who are listed here are the only ones most exposed. They're aware of that, too. They were the most exposed, but I think the whole of Slovenia helped, but they were exposed. I'd say that all the questions about why it's not going to everybody here, why it can't be, are more excuses than anything else. However, I would also like to say that the concern expressed by respectable colleague Marsich about retroactivity will not be the principles of this. I don't think it was necessary for him to mention it because we don't want to go to the ideological side of the matter, at least for now I don't think there's any need. Of course, this will depend on others, but if we are challenged, we can also say something about it. With regard to retroactivity, I would just say that, but it is not ideological that when we talk about pensions, we often talk about retroactivity, especially in pensions, perhaps a little less. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. First Mr Christmas, then Mr Marshic, Mrs Montenegro, Mr Kebrič. Here you go, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! I would like to say a few words in favour of the amendment tabled when we are talking about a proposal to amend the defence law. In the previous term, we have somehow enjoyed the adoption of a law that gave rise to the early retirement of many police officers. There's something I'd like to say here that I don't want anyone to understand. I don't want to hurt anyone. All I'm saying is I want to say in good faith and light for everyone who's hurt. After the Customs Act came to pass, we were no longer so kind. And now, on May 1st, when we have the customs officers too much, we have a headache again. And today we are talking about members of our Slovenian army who joined the Slovenian army when it was most necessary. And yet, unfortunately, we don't like them today; we don't like them in the military because we need a modern army of soldiers who will know something else than those people who came into the Slovenian army in 1991, then territorial defence, but we still have them in the Slovenian army. We can barely train them. And whatever my thought of 1950 is, I don't know if any of you have remembered or read it when all the partisan officers who didn't have schools in the then Yugoslav army left or weren't able to go to school. We have to do it here, too. The Slovenian army must be as we planned. And that's why I want this amendment to be adopted. Because on the basis of this amendment, he will be part of the questions of the people who are in the Slovenian army: the soldier may have a uniform, but he may also be a member of the Slovenian army, that he does not have a uniform, but his life problem will be solved. Therefore, I hope that my fellow Members will be happy to support this amendment, even if it is not accepted. Constantly saying that we will settle in an appropriate marriage, I must tell the story told by the professor of forest management at the Faculty of Forestry - there is no appropriateness in the forest, but there is only one measure to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marshich to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's actually nice to listen to each other and understand each other, and it's nice to read the whole law and see how things work out. I said that I'm afraid, I'm afraid that in the end, now that we're discussing, we're only discussing one point, and we're simply overlooking the whole forest behind. This law deals with exactly what you said, colleague Christmas, that structural funds in the Slovenian military are being treated in an honorable manner. And preferably in the same way. And for this purpose, we are already several times, in 1995, for the first time and now again - we are talking about how we will make these people who are employed in the Slovenian army, who are disabled, who are just before retirement, who have no education, what we will do with them, and how we will make them the least painful. And this law regulates it. The numbers are written in here, exactly how many people will go into requalification, if possible, how many people will we retire, if possible, and how many people will be admitted to an adequate disability, all of which are written in there. And because of this there is no bad attitude towards members of the Slovenian army, on the one hand, and to our veterans, on the other. In addition, it is necessary to say that former members of the territorial defence and the maneuvering structure of national protection, who are still employed in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army, do not constitute a staff gap, as some are, excuse me, my generation, veterans, former members of the territorial defence and the manoeuvre structures of national protection, have an adequate education, have even been trained and have occupied important cities - from headquarters to units. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the law in its entirety, the law seems to me to be consistent in this sense, the virtue of being prepared in the sense that these problems are also being solved. There's another point I'd like to point out here. The explanation states that the employees of the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia were the only cases in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia, which did not have a recognised working age with an increase in jobs. Of course, because Slovenia was the only one that had territorial defence in this form organized! Of course, it is not possible that in other republics it was as it was with us. So here we talk about something that wasn't, and try to sort things out at something special -- I think we have a unified opinion here that we also said: yes, right, they belong to them, the benefits of veterans belong to them. In each country they regulate the status of veterans, they also tell which categories are treated in what way, but in other laws, not in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It is clear to me why Mr Petan or SDS came up with the idea of making such an amendment. And I understand these tendencies, and I also understand why today's full debate is taking place in this direction as it is. It is normal to try, in particular, to resolve all problems that have been accumulated in one way or another during the pre-election period. It is also clear that the purpose of the amendments and the completion of the present law was not to resolve only these matters, but the law has comprehensively resolved all those matters that were necessary for the completion of one period, one phase of adaptation of Slovenia, arms and, lastly, its security to the new system and to the new organisations in which we enter. So I understand, once again, the client's inclination and desire to resolve these matters. How and in what way and if this formulation and the way they propose is appropriate, of course it is very questionable. Given that the law in the concept is so conceptual and has certain needs to be adopted today or in a short time and that this problem needs to be resolved in a different way, more coherently, where, of course, in the system and cooperation of all the experts we have at our disposal, there would be one final coordinated solution to the problem for those people who are. However, I would suggest to the President of the Defence Committee that, even in explaining the vote, he himself said that a law that needs a two-thirds majority, that the adoption of this amendment would not make it conditional on the adoption of the law, but that he would say in one way that he expected that if the amendment was not adopted, that experts would meet and that perhaps once again with harmonised expertise, which would in some way result in an optimal variant and a solution to all these problems that are in the Slovenian military. By contrast, the law, I think, is very good at all sorts of solutions, from how they will solve all the human resources problems they are, how and how they will educate them; and the 1995 law has solved these issues in some way. I think so, Mr Petan, given that your wish is, as well as probably the wish of all of us, that the matter will be finally resolved, because the number of these people is known that, however, once again, within a certain time frame, this matter will have to be resolved because it really needs to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I will not repeat what I have made clear in the beginning that no one who understands and wants to remain independent of Slovenia, which we then fought to give all these persons a certain recognition in the form of material advantages, but not in this law. If I've been misunderstood, I want to explain. In the Democratic Party, we have always - also respected colleague Christmas - opposed various early retirements on more favourable terms. We objected to the retirement of the police. However, since I am speaking, let me say that I remember well in 1950 when they were demobilized from partisan units, not only because they did not meet certain conditions of education, even if they had the right education because they wanted to establish themselves or work in civil society. I don't think we can just throw it all in one basket and solve it the way someone wants it, with a certain intention of getting closer to someone or creating a certain sympathy. That is why we remain at the core of the principle: we are Members of the National Assembly, who should respect the Constitution and the laws without such or other exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Vice President. So it's not a replica, but I'm going to say: seventh year I'm sitting in this hall and seven years we're almost, I'd say, one and the same customers here, and seven years one and the same people are waiting for our solution - and one of the proposals is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself have a similar opinion, as my colleague Maršič has already said: on this consolidated or complementary text of the law, there are a lot of efforts, a lot of good will and a lot of willingness on the part of the members and members of the Defence Committee to make the text of the law in a manner consistent with the basic purpose of which the amendments and additions were intended at all. And that despite individual opposition in individual parliamentary groups, even in my own, I was willing to understand and also somehow supported some articles on my own responsibility. Now it is the final adoption of the law in the third reading, otherwise another because we have only one amendment, but it will follow the third and we are facing one great responsibility. We need two-thirds of the votes, and I already said on the board, I'm afraid one such amendment would risk the non-admission of the law. That wouldn't be good. I have respect for these people who are here meant to be saved. But I think there's more people like that out there. Finally, the territorial defense did not come about in 1991, but far back and we built it for 30 years and sacrificed a lot of time to others in this territorial defense, too. Many afternoons, many free Saturdays, many weeks, many military exercises I have put through, of which I have nothing, but I am proud of what I have done, because in the end this territorial defense has also achieved what was the goal of our plebiscite when that plebiscite decision was to be defended. That is why I am simply proposing here one measure of reason and tolerance that these things are being tried on another occasion to be resolved elsewhere, as well as those not listed here. But I support the rest, the absolute part of the proposals already written in the law and we are no longer discussing it, and I warn and warn that such an amendment could then endanger the adoption of the whole law, which would be a great harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Okay. Yeah, okay. Mr. Petan, please. [[...]] Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	I only have ten seconds left, as far as I know. So I would only say this here; if anyone thinks that this is premeditated, then I would suggest to him to support this amendment, and even the pre-election campaign will confuse us, he will destroy us all, and we can all have something to do with it. That's what they say. I didn't think Mrs. Nigga meant it literally, but that's what I'm saying if anyone does. [[...]] The best answer would be acceptance, but we're all going wrong, as it's called, but it's content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I must say that I do not know all the issues in this area; I am not a member of the committee to monitor. However, I have been following the matter since 1990, or if you want to continue as a citizen since 1991. Of course, I cannot understand this amendment in any way, as presented to me by Mr Pohorec, who extended this amendment, if I have understood it correctly, to everyone who has ever participated in the territorial composition in territorial defence. This was, of course, a broad structure, but the amendment says: "members of the permanent and military composition that worked in the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia" and then "who were members of the manoeuvred structure of national protection and who participated in the preparations and the self-conquered war of 1991". This, of course, now means something essential. This is a very narrow matter for members of the territorial defence. Then it lays down the conditions - which have so many and so many working years and which they would then like and would in some way allow them to retire prematurely. I believe that in practical life in Slovenia it is likely that the category of these people goes to some problems, it is said that some would like to take advantage of this opportunity, and most probably not because it is not a full pension base, but a reduced one. I think it would be appropriate for Slovenia, however, to so many gentlemen from the ruling coalition, to seek to resolve the issue of deleted and among them many Yugoslav officers, of whom we do not really know where they have been since 1992 and 1991, in order to primarily resolve the status of those of our citizens who have actually made themselves available in this self-sustaining war. At that time, no one could have known that this self-sustaining war in the Republic of Slovenia would last only 10 days. Those who put themselves in these kinds have been exposed to maximum exposure. This war could have a completely different dimension. Thank God it ended, and it's sad that there was any victim on one side or on the other, but once they were part of this independent military structure - I'm at home in Ormož and I know what that formation looked like in those days, I also know what kind of military force it was against - knowingly, all those who were prepared then were at great risk. Once again: thank God, it has been resolved as it has been, Slovenia has come out with relatively few victims. Today, after so many years, these people, if they wanted and met the conditions laid down by this amendment, and that is not in fact some, I would say, generally attainable conditions and are, in some context, written down in order to give them the opportunity to be paid back by Slovenia even in such a way if they have problems and would like to retire prematurely. But I apologize myself because I don't know what number these people are talking about, but like this, in the debate I somehow learned from my colleagues that there must be a maximum of 200 or 300. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marshic, then Mrs Montenegro, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	Dear colleagues and colleagues. When dealing with these matters, the integrity of the hearing must be taken into account over and over again. Of course, I agree with you, Comrade Sok, and I have also stressed at the outset that I am aware of the full importance, especially of those people who have been involved in the manoeuvre structures of national protection resulting from territorial defence and from internal affairs units. We, if we accept this amendment, as it is now, will have a proposal from the North veteran organisation, which will, of course, also make the same proposal for members of the internal affairs bodies. Therefore, this proposal is not comprehensive. We're forgetting one more thing. You know, when we begin to talk, I hope that we will not go into this, about the meaning of the individual categories of people who were involved in these processes and procedures of resistance to JLA in one way or another, we forget, for example, the full category of workers in the administrative defence bodies, civilians who were then armed at the republic and municipal level, exposed to threats, permanently employed, then also employed from the municipal level to the Ministry of Defence, who then also created material and human resources conditions for the work of territorial defence, national protection, internal affairs bodies and the very manoeuvre structures for national protection. You and the status of veterans can't win because their role, in my personal opinion, is still unjustifiable. That way it can trigger a reptile, but what it is - I suggest that we do not go into this discussion, because then we will have again long and wide and we can also get confused into what kind of water we have somehow agreed after the "fair play" that we will not go, I remind again of the opinion of the legislative and legal service that the amendment and the solution, as proposed here, cannot be implemented, because it says that "the articles talking about the working age with the increase are very unclear, is not specifically defined. It cannot be understood how it could be implemented once it has been adopted, because it is not known for what period of time it is intended to be calculated by an increase." And so on. We cannot accept solutions that ultimately cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I would just like to tell my colleague Petan, given that he himself said that perhaps the amendment was not the most complete one, I said that such a problem should be resolved in a coordinated manner. My colleague Marsic said that there are problems with other statuses and all those who participated in this process. In this process, it is not just those who participated, say, in the administration and in the body. As many as those who cannot obtain veteran status have contributed greatly to the process of independence. And there must be a lot of civilians among them, and so on - but good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I am sure that anything in this amendment, which is not yet clearly stated, can still be completed on the basis of the adopted amendment in the third reading. So the main reason for not accepting this cannot be that, I don't know, the amendment is flawed. So, more importantly, if we want the status of these people who have directly engaged in the military structure to be resolved or not; obviously, we don't want to see you. But as for the extension to everyone else; see if we go with such an argument that I don't know who to spread it to, even though we know that only those who were, if I say so, on the front line, if I can call it a front line, then we can name a lot more. I would, for example, point out our then president of the congregation. He negotiated directly on the bridge over Drava, in Ormož, with the then commander of the Varaždin military station, I think it was written by Popov, who said what would happen to Ormož if they did not remove the barricade from the bridge. Then he told him very clearly what they would do. Of course they didn't do it, thank God. But for that barricade, and in the defense itself, with guns in their hands in the woods, which was also shot, they were members of the territorial defense. No one was, fortunately, hit, but from these military rapids, they literally shot at the positions of territorial defense in Ormož. There they stood and defended that barricade and I know that the barricade on the bridge in Ormož stopped the Yugoslav army for at least one, if not two days. They couldn't remove it, and they couldn't make any progress across that area. They had to return to Croatia and, on the other hand, go towards Gornji Radgona. When that happened, however, the territorialists in another area gained so much time - of course you don't know these areas - that they did barricades on the Cognac on all roads, and they also stopped them there, so that, as I said before, they were literally two days late. And we all know what this military strategy means, say, a day or two. It is my opinion that this area and these people, who have so far placed themselves in the service of the Slovenian State, in the function of serving Slovenian independence, who have been willing to sacrifice what is most valuable to man, is said to have their own lives, that we should somehow resolve this area. However, if it is unclear as to the time limits and what is similar in this amendment, it is possible, once again, to arrange and write the matter more precisely in the third reading. Of course, if we do not accept this amendment now, then there will be nothing to fix in the third reading, because the article will remain closed. I therefore propose that we accept this amendment, and then we can still reshape it with the help of the government and correct it in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I now think that I can conclude the debate, so I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 19.55 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State very much for his cooperation. At 2.25 p.m., we will move on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is, for the third reading of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union, until then, I am adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	We continue our session, colleagues and colleagues. For all of us, we are fully occupied and time is persecuting us. However, the meeting is, of course, the most important among the obligations. And now we're going to focus on 9. Agenda items - This is the third defence proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. We are therefore before the third reading, before the adoption of the law, which will then allow us to take all the necessary measures for Slovenia's entry into the European Union in preparation for Parliament's entry into the European Union. I see representatives of the government, but first of all I am asking the representative of the applicants whether he wishes to further explain the bill. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Respectable. As has already been said in all stages of the debate, when the National Assembly has launched activities at the final stage for all adjustments to be made by the Republic of Slovenia before and after entry into the European Union, so has the adoption of 3a. Article of the Constitution itself states that it will change the way in which Parliament-government operates and that this will be regulated by a specific law. When the design was developed, there were several models in the option, several models. Somehow we hesitated between the so-called Finnish and Danish models. It was closer to the Finnish model in most cases, and we also then upgraded this base with proposals made by the government, with proposals made by the European Affairs Commission and also, of course, Members. After a general discussion, i.e. a general consensus in the National Assembly, that this is the appropriate basis we set ourselves, the National Assembly then, in its second reading with some amendments, added this also to the fact that it was again sufficient for the appropriate majority, as this law requires some consensus of all those involved in this process. In the third reading, there are some amendments on the bench, but we think that what was adopted in the second reading is what the final text can be. If the service finds any disharmony, it may be possible to draw up a harmonisation amendment, otherwise we believe that what has been prepared is what is worth supporting and creating conditions, which is very important that we also change the rules of procedure of the national assembly in that part when, of course, this law also requires. It is certainly important to say at this point that we expect the law to regulate the relationship between the national assembly, the government and, on the other hand, the indirect relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union or to the institutions of the European Union, so that the law will allow for a relatively simple and rapid but thorough assessment of the positions and proposals that the Republic of Slovenia will advocate in the institutions of the European Union. In order to preserve the role and place of the State Assembly in this system of negotiating and forming positions, which will give it absolute sovereignty and responsibility on those issues for which it will itself assess that they are so important to the Republic of Slovenia that it is impossible to leave them, so to speak, to the government to form and intervene themselves and to defend them in Brussels, but that a broader consensus on these issues must be established in some way. I am sure that, despite the fact that some believe that the law will be taken away - even when part of the sovereign rights have been transferred to the institution of the European Union - that the national assembly will also lose this role. I am sure that, if we are to know - and if the Members know in the coming mandates - it will not separate what is ongoing, what is actually routinely done by the executive authorities, from what is fundamental and what the national assembly must undisputedly deal with, draw up views, adopt legislation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] internal nature, and in this case it seems to me that we will make a good marriage and a good foundation for the future. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. I then invite my colleague, Mr Kebrich, to the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, ministers, unfortunately there are none, and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we estimate that this proposal for a law before us in the third reading is particularly appropriate for the following reasons. The very broad debate that has been going on for a long time, even because the adoption of this law requires a two-thirds majority, was clear that we have drawn up opinions to come up with such a proposal for a law to be adopted today, which will provide a certain important role for the legislative working body, this is a national assembly. With or to the experience of various other countries with which we have spoken with representatives of their parliaments, we have also been able to say so, on a study trip to Denmark, as well as to Finland, and have been familiar with their experiences, as they have told us how they operate under their laws this cooperation of Parliament with a government to which certain quick action rights must be transferred. That is why, in our Group of Members, we also advocate that these two working bodies, which will deal with current urgent matters, should deal with them behind closed doors for a simple reason, so that they do not become aware of positions prematurely. It is important that we have written down in the law that the National Assembly co-decisions on the adoption of the positions that the Government of the European Union will have to take into account in this function and to strive to enforce them. In the parliamentary group, we believe that special emphasis is given to the two bodies, this is the Committee on the Foreign Policy of the National Assembly, as it will decide what will be formulated as a position and order the government to implement this policy. On the other hand, since the European Union, with regard to its hierarchy and the distribution of powers to individual worlds, is very flexible and necessary, it is also right that we - as we have been told in Denmark and Finland that their representatives are in Parliament - say that their Members are obliged to report weekly in their parliaments to these working bodies that they are on the current track and that they are able to adopt their views in a timely manner; that the possibility of wide debate, inquiry and acquisition, which is most important in today's time of the information society, because those who do not have information, is in fact like a street blind man who can move forward. Therefore, we believe that this proposal, as it is, and these two amendments that have been tabled, is more editorial in nature, so that we will also support this bill and its adoption in the parliamentary group. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. My colleague, Lois Peterle, now has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In New Slovenia, we are happy to have reached the final after a very difficult joint work, but not only a difficult one, but also a successful one. We are convinced that we have made the right decision on the main course. With regard to the details, however, we believe that, with the support of some amendments, the law could be further improved so that it would be as simple or as clearly specified in this constitutional law as possible. We are pleased that we have managed to implement one, in our view, key democratic ideas regarding the role of the plenary of the National Assembly, on the fact that we have had a considerable variety of views on the issue of obligability, and on this basis there are still different views, but it is very important that we have put in place a two-stage position whereby the position adopted by the Committee on European Affairs is less binding or can be changed by the Government if it adopts the position of the plenary is that of the Republic of Slovenia and must be taken into account by the Government. If he wants a change in the negotiating process, he must come in with a new position or request his reconfirmation. It may be over time, even though we have followed some of the arrangements elsewhere, there will be a need to make further changes. We believe that, with the support of the amendment to Article 4 and the first amendment to Article 6, the law could be drafted to a degree at which everyone could be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thanks, buddy Peterle. Dr Brejc's colleague now has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Your Honor! At the time of the enlargement of the European Union, the national parliaments have now done extensive work, including in the Convention, and we have then participated in the formation of a constitutional treaty. Now that this period of integration into the European Union is slowly running out, and it appears that there is agreement on a new European Constitutional Treaty, it can happen that we will not only deal with the issue of the power of the government in relation to Parliament, but will certainly be an interesting question of what will also happen with the increased role of the European Parliament. For if the constitutional treaty with these amendments, which were drafted at the intergovernmental conference in Rome, were to be implemented, the role of the European Parliament would, of course, be slightly greater, re-energizing questions about the role of national parliaments. Now after May 1st, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will no longer have a legislative function in that part of the legislation which has been transposed into the common institutions of the European Union by means of constitutional changes and an accession treaty. Here I am thinking mainly about the area of the first pillar, covering the internal market with free movement of all cash registers, etc. We must not forget those areas which are within the exclusive competence of the European Union or, as we say in the European Constitution, other original competences. We must not forget the principle of limited powers, which means that the European Union and its institutions can only operate on the basis of the powers conferred by the founding treaties and on the basis of their adoption of rules. The second pillar is now subject to the sharing of competence, as we know, between the European Union and the Member States, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, while the other areas are subject to the reference that the institutions of the European Union may, by means of complementary measures, upgrade the legislation of the Member States. Why am I saying all this now? Because too many times in the debate and at the first and second readings, it forgets that it is a complex relationship that we do not really know enough, but in particular we do not have the right experience and the experience of other countries is not exactly one or one that we can fully follow. I do not think we should ignore the proposal for protocols on the role of national parliaments in the European Union and on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. If I may mention the proposal for a protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union. Following this proposal, the States Parties will agree to inform the national parliaments of the Member States, by which the role of national parliaments in the process of adopting legal acts and other political acts will be slightly different as their supervisory function is highlighted. They will decide whether the legislative proposal respects the principle of subsidiarity in accordance with the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Therefore, following this proposal from this Protocol, the national parliaments of the Member States will be able to send this opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission, so that we will have a direct, direct path to these institutions, which means, after all, that, somehow, even past the government. The European Parliament and the national parliaments will jointly determine how to organise effectively within the European Union and, of course, to promote interparliamentary cooperation. In accordance with the proposal for a protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the Commission will also be obliged to send its legislative proposals to the national parliaments of the countries, i.e. directly. These, that is, the national parliaments of the countries, will discuss this if they so choose. They will be able to give a reasoned opinion on why they belong, let's say that the proposal is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity. The European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission will also take into account the reasoned opinions of the national parliaments of the Member States. Well, in the case of two-house parliaments, the opinion of both houses. Thus, this law regulates a relationship that is very unusual for our situation when a minister who has a political executive function in Slovenia has a legal function in the Ministerial Council. But I would also like to draw attention to another dimension of cooperation with the European institutions in this position, the position of the Group of Members. We do not yet have experience in Slovenia when it comes to the relationship between the government and parliament. After May 1st, it will show how much of European legislation will be forwarded by the government to the National Assembly and under what conditions, in particular time conditions, Parliament will be able to carry out its work. If the government retains the bulk of European legislation in its competence and only the "postfestum" is informed by Parliament, its responsibility will increase, and the role of Parliament will decrease undisputedly. On the other hand, if the government directs the bulk of European legislation to Parliament, this could also mean an excessive burden on Parliament with matters that the government could carry out in the context of pre-defined principles in the management of individual policies. Thus, at this point, we can only expect the government to take responsibility when it comes to its legislative function or role in the ministerial council, but it will be able to determine the matters to be addressed by the Slovenian Parliament. This is not just about how to say reasonable rationality in legislative procedures, but also about the appropriate level of democratic political culture. In all this, however, the key question is whether the government will respond to all these impulses coming from the European institutions sufficiently rapidly in this new role and whether it will be able to exercise the interest of Slovenia, which should be above the individual’s interests. This is why I stress that what happened at the very beginning of our entry into the European Union, when Slovenia was offered the post of Commissioner for Agriculture, and you know that agriculture is in fact the largest and most important sector. However, the Slovenian Government has decided to take into account individual interests, individual interests and support its personal efforts for the least important Commissioner’s department, that is enlargement. So if we behave differently in the beginning, then we would have the hope of doing so in advance. There is a strange feeling, however, that even when it comes to European affairs, when it comes to the interests of Slovenia, the interests of individuals of the ruling coalition are taken into account as a priority, and whenever the government acts that way, it will be absolutely no matter what kind of law we adopt in the national assembly, i.e. the law governing the relationship between the government and the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the law is a good one. Surely it will not solve in itself all the issues raised by Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union for relations between the government and the national assembly. Many issues will have to be resolved in the face, depending on the good and proper functioning of the National Assembly, as well as the concrete relations of the Government. However, personally and in the Group of Members, we believe that the extensions are good. It is clear that any matter which would otherwise be the subject of legislative decision cannot be decided by the government in the European Union without the powers and guidance it receives from the national assembly. We have decided - we think it is probably wise - that the orientations are given through the European Committee or the Committee on European Affairs, and when it comes to security and foreign policy, through the Committee on International Relations, that, in short, it is not a Parliament as a whole that decides on every matter. The composition of both committees will be proportionate. There is an urgent need for the participation of the home labour bodies, which, given the broad content to be decided by the European Union, ensures that the specific treatment of specific areas and their cross-referencing in the European Joint Policy Implementation Committee are included to a sufficient extent. Unlike in the majority practice of the European countries I know, it is envisaged that certain issues can and should also be decided at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly. Once a year, when a global policy is laid down, which is then also based on the European Committee for Specific Decision-making, and when it is so decided by a specially qualified majority in college or in the home labour body that a decision on a particular issue is needed at the national assembly. The participation of all Members is foreseen. Thus, all Members and Members will be informed of the materials. There will be an opportunity and a need to discuss issues in the home work bodies, in the sent-out groups and finally in both working bodies for European affairs. All of these are, in our belief, solutions, extensions that enable proper cooperation. However, I believe that in practice we will still have a lot to talk about how to use these extensions in a productive and good way. And especially since I have had the opportunity in the last month to be familiar with the experience in three countries, this is in Denmark, Finland and Sweden, this is in those three countries where it is claimed that they have developed and established relations between Parliament and the government, to say some of the gravest impressions. We will be the only one who will formally have settled issues between the government and parliament in law. The rest are arranged in a different way. I think that we can claim that our solutions are at the level of best practice that has been established, and everyone acknowledges that this practice needs to be re-engineered. I think that given that we can be ruled by the National Assembly, which is not explicitly possible in some of these countries, because it is always only within the European Committee and it ends here that the role of the National Assembly is at least the same if not the same. A clear and firm statement was put in place that, without trust among Members, there are no good solutions without the desire to form common interests, without cooperation between the government and the national assembly or parliament. And two more, it was clear that parliaments were not burdened after the new, but more burdened than they had been before. So the claim that the National Assembly will have nothing to do is not real and everyone acknowledges that the issue of Parliament's relations with MEPs will need to be thoroughly examined, as nowhere is properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. These were the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Colleague Podobnik is not in the hall, nor is his colleague Štemberger, and his colleague Peče wishes to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He will be followed by a colleague of Shirca on behalf of the LDS Club of Parliament, then we will go to the debate of MEPs and Members. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u184	Your Honors are here! I'll try to start with the same thought as I'll finish later. And I sincerely hope that you will understand the meaning of the debate. Why did the Slovenian state decide to join the EU or such integrations? The Slovenian state has decided because it hopes that there will be something more for this country within the European Union and not a little less. However, the fact is that it is of different interest, on the one hand, of the politicians, why they decided to join Slovenia in the EU and unfortunately the different interests of the inhabitants and residents. At the request of the policy, we have amended the Constitution in Article 3a, which, until then, transferred part of our own rights in exchange for membership in the European Union to institutions within the European Union. During the period when we adopted or adopted constitutional amendments and when there was much talk about joining the EU, Slovenian politicians who went to Europe quite a lot and European politicians who went to our country at that time, we received, above all, promises of rights. But interestingly, one of the most important three freedoms of the European Union we have lost, even before we became members of the European Union at all, is the right to employment. But of course, the response of this Slovenian Parliament and the reaction of the Slovenian government to the loss of this right, which is otherwise self-evident, was not. Even more, I think that one of the interior ministers just winked and said, we're going to try to fix this even more important theory, just in a way that we're going to have bilateral discussions. But in order for Slovenia to say no to Europe, but we do not agree to it, as other associates or candidates did during this period, Slovenia was not able to do so. What else we will lose from the title of the so-called self-determination rights of the European Union will show time. But the fact is, we're going to lose a lot, especially with proposals like this on the table today. The bill, which is now on the table or on our benches, has the title of cooperation between the government and Parliament. No, it is not in our opinion that there is no cooperation, as cooperation is expressed in some form of bilateral rights. It is solely the exercise of a subordinate position, in our case of the National Assembly. Despite the clear provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which should still be the highest legal act of the internal legal order in our country, you forget all together at the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the provision on the division of power. Just so that corruption does not occur at all levels in our society, we or the founders have written that in Slovenia we have an executive branch of power, a legislative branch of power and a judicial branch of power. They're all separate. For the executive branch of power, it was somehow desirable or desirable to enforce or enforce laws and other regulations. For the legislative branch of the authorities, that is, this Parliament was written down or wanted to adopt laws, and a judicial branch of the authorities that would oversee the entire circular process. Unfortunately, of course, it was born, or the idea of dividing power is no longer present in our country, by adopting such laws. The fact is that today Parliament is transferring to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the executive branch of power, not only in the field of internal policy, that is, domestic legislation, but above all in the area of primate law of the European Union. The fact is that Slovenian legislation, so far adopted and future, will be subject to direct influence, both by the primary acts of the European Union and by the secondary acts of the European Union. And this Parliament will not have a role to play in spite of the behaviour that you, of course, are increasingly neglecting that Parliament, that is, the State Assembly, is elected by the people. And that the only organ in this country, in view of the authorities of the exercise of power, which can also be criticized by the people, in other words, is subject to elections. You told the judges anyway that you didn't want them to be replaced and that they should be given a life term so they could do anything. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not like elections, in general elections. So, the only Parliament is an institution that is subject to the will of people every so long when people can say whether they have been satisfied with the decisions of the last 4 years or not. What will people now decide in the elections? Definitely not on the decisions of the National Assembly because the National Assembly with such an act loses its legislative function. We get a new function of the State Council, which has proven to be one of the administrative bodies alone. Of course, according to our assessment, you are making a huge mistake by making proposals and Members of Parliament, not only by transferring the entire sphere of sovereignty to the institutions of the European Union, but also by making a huge mistake by blurring the constitutional provision on the division of power. It is probably for all this headless rush into the European Union, a headless rush into the European Union, which is the result of one-mindedness in our policy or excessive concentration of power. Indeed, the consequences of this hurry to the European Union have already proved to be true in the field of the economy. Every week, after some time more than once a week, we lose a non-competitive company that simply loses 100 or some 100 people to join the EU, but, of course, this does not touch you at all. Some directors in these companies have the courage to say that this is a tobacco case due to joining the EU, of course some do not have the courage to do so. The fact is that it is precisely due to a headless rush that Slovenia is not protecting the economy, and by the act we have before us today, we are not protecting the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the provision of the division of power. What is the purpose of the Slovenian National Party? The purpose of the National Party in these, and if we are self-critical, we will say, in the last few days before entering the EU, that we will correct the shortcomings while we can. The fact is, whether you like it or not, the Slovenian government in the field of our legislation of the European Union will be extremely prompt if we come from the current functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that we have made or that the Slovenian government has even made "kiks" in translating from two terms, which they use separately, in substance, in the European Union, the European Resident and the European Citizens. The Slovenian government forgets that each of these two terms has its own content, its rights and the Slovenian government have said, and we will not use different terms, which is just one, and thereby has lost a lot of rights under both terms. On the other hand, of course, a speech of information. As you know, there is no regular information, there is no quality information, not this national assembly or state apparatus, but more importantly, there is no quality information for citizens and citizens who should normally have something from entering the European Union. But how can they, if there is no information, if they are familiar with everything just before they do, if the Slovenian government, in my opinion, does not want to familiarise them with the rights they could have in the European Union? According to our assessment, the trend of information, bad information, of course, will continue, and if we come from a logical link between information and today's deficit transparency standard, because the fact that we are today's non-transparent witnesses in all areas will mean this and is already reflected in the act before us today. The National Assembly said that labour bodies dealing with the European Union's mother must be closed to the public. Journalists must not be present because they will not write about European Union legislation concerning Slovenian citizens and citizens. And what is the purpose of all this? According to our assessment, of course, there is continued lack of transparency. To continue the system of non-information between citizens and citizens. At the previous session, i.e. at the second reading of the Act, we offered you an amendment at the National Party, which would at least allow citizens and citizens to know what was going on. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That we will not only know what their obligations are. But the National Assembly said, no, they're going to be closed to the public because of that, the one and the third, but because of nothing of quality. There's a lot more to this negative, even in this act. Not negative exclusively for Parliament, more important, negative for our citizens. Let me finish with the thing I started. We should not enter the European Union because of some political officials seen within the institutions of the European Union, but mainly because citizens and citizens should have something from this title. We will not, of course, support the National Party for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The last position will be the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, presented by a colleague of Shirca. Then we will turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u186	Your Honor! The current debate on the consideration and adoption of this law has shown that almost all parliamentary groups consider the legal text to be a good basis for establishing relations between the national assembly and the government in European affairs. In the spirit of continuing to cooperate successfully between the two branches of government from the pre-accession negotiations between Slovenia and the European Union so far. The debate focused in particular on the question to what extent the views of the national assembly on European affairs should be binding on the government. Although this issue has been partially resolved, there remains a subsequent question of the provisions of Article 4 of the Law, which states that the National Assembly participates in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in those European matters which, in accordance with its content, would fall within its competence under the Constitution and the laws. Most of the comments were from the opposition, which put the government at risk of gaining too much freedom with such a non-binding dictatorship, and the National Assembly would be limited to the role of the consultative body. In the LDS Group, we do not consider this to be such a threat, which is to say that the Government would be allowed as freely as possible to represent the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU, but we have taken into account the constitutional legal role of the National Assembly even after the recent amendment of the Constitution. We believe that the proposal for a law and also Article 4, as it is ready for a third hearing, is in no way in violation of the basic democratic principle that the authority of the people is exercised through Members and Members. It is necessary to emphasise the solutions in the draft law that respond to reality, namely the reality of a new co-operation with other European countries. In this respect, the National Assembly may maintain a legislative function only in that part which will remain within the domain of full sovereignty of the State. As part of its decision-making in the EU institutions, the government will become an important representative of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU and will also have a legislative role as the EU Council, which brings together governments, is a central legislator in the Union. It is therefore essential in the EU decision-making processes that the government must ensure the participation of the national assembly at all stages of the process and decision-making. Moreover, the adopted positions of the National Assembly will have to be taken into account and, to the greatest extent possible, apply. There should be no doubt here, but, as experience has shown in foreign countries, it will often be in a position where, due to different views in the EU institutions, it will have to adjust the position adopted at home. Therefore, in this case, the proposal for a law, I am referring to Article 10, provides that in such cases the government may decide otherwise, but of course it must immediately inform the national assembly and state the circumstances for such conduct. This also gives rise to the 4th Article and proposed, as we have proposed in the amendment. The dictatorship introduces a more rigid relationship between the national assembly and the government, which is not in accordance with Article 10. The role of Parliament will therefore be reversed only in such cases, but the National Assembly will not lose its role. It will maintain control of the government, it will still be responsible to Parliament, and it also has sufficient institutions set out in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in the future to exercise the responsibility of the government. Therefore, it is not a matter of fear that the National Assembly will lose its power to decide on these matters. However, the enforcement of the law will require the enforcement of the policy, the principle of trust between all political parties represented in the National Assembly, as it will be necessary to form and represent the views of the Republic of Slovenia and not the individual interests of political parties, as well as to respect one branch of power towards another. This is mainly about the transparency of the government towards the National Assembly, which is worth stressing. However, the government, as has already been heard today, will have to inform the national assembly in good time on the decision-making process in the European Union, and will still have to justify the behaviour that will be different from that of the national assembly. In particular, we will discuss the comments on the other articles, in particular Article 6, and of course we will support the law without any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. With your performance, we have concluded a presentation of the views of the delegations. And now I'm going to go in line, just as my colleagues are on the list, and I'm going to give my word to whoever's in the hall. My colleague Bernik is not, my colleague Rokavac is not, my colleague Štemberger is not either, my colleague Barovic is also not, my colleague Jakič is not, but here is my colleague Drobnic. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u188	The debate, or presentation of the positions of colleague Majda Širca, shows the need to adopt provisions that will make the government more clearly bound by the representation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not enough that the government represents one's position and then informs or changes its position, such as the National Assembly, in a timely manner, it must not do so. We were told, among other things, by colleagues from Denmark and Finland. They clearly said, "The government is committed to keeping its position." And we asked them, "Does this ever happen that it doesn't?" Yeah, they said, in one case, it happened. They didn't have a place, and they did their own thing. It must be taken into account consistently because the European Parliament is not the right legislative body. The adoption of legislation is quite complicated at the European level and the role of parliaments is much more exposed. This is if we stick to this logic, which was previously presented, then it would also be sufficient if it was transferred to the national level. Well, the government can actually adopt the law because it prepares it, the law. In most cases, the drafter is the government, which should only inform the national assembly, because he thinks well anyway and has the majority support in Parliament. That's why the government is here until it fails. In this way, of course, we will not be able to get anywhere. Of course, most things will be prepared by the government, most things will be prepared, opinions will be drawn up, because it has the necessary institutions and headquarters to do so, which can sufficiently analyse the economic, political and I do not know what situation in our country and are preparing the necessary solutions. We have even seen something else in these other parliaments. Since the government cannot be completely trusted, including its so-called independent institutions, there are many special institutions within Parliament that are preparing professional bases so that the National Assembly can make a sovereign decision. Yeah, that's right. It is precisely from this assumption of mistrust, which is nothing harmful, where it is actually a methodical approach and therefore our amendment is also in Article 4, not that it is a doctrine which, according to its content, would fall within its jurisdiction under the Constitution and laws. That's why it's our direction. Of course, it will be in the light of what is happening at the European level, given where the positions are going, where the decision is going, but it will have to judge how to do it. Either vote against or seek a second term or modification. Modification of those positions that have already been and that there will be changes in positions in the light of constellations at European level. Therefore, there will be another requirement on us that we probably have to act wiser, less than a political roller. Most things will have to be accepted or tried to be accepted by consensus or by a high consensus, including by the opposition. It is better to reach a lower denominator, as is said in the mathematical formula, so the lower denominator and the larger numerator, than to go into excess. The next point is that we will be informed in good time, due to the fact that we can still be able to form the base paper when the basic solutions are being sought to influence at that time, not when the draft will be ready and agreement will be sought. For the adoption of these solutions, once this "draft" has been written, follows a different logic, according to the logic of convincing parliaments to accept it. These are some assumptions that we will have to take into account. I believe that the law has reached such a degree of seriousness, expertise that it can be accepted and applied. Or it may prove that we will have to make some changes once we have some practice. Like other parliaments and other countries and this form of government-to-government decision-making, i.e. the European Parliament, the European Union and the national parliaments, national parliaments, are still being searched for, they are not exactly the same. Each country is also looking for some of its own ways, depending on its parliamentary system. Therefore, a higher degree of commitment, those who decide at the European level, are committed to these positions. In particular, because it is likely that a number of times, the minister will not be represented at the European level. Since he simply won't, he'll have other responsibilities. It's an extremely big case, it's extremely demanding, and that's what they told us. No matter how large a Parliament you have, how many citizens you have, how large an institution you have, you will actually have to pass on about the same amount of matters or documents. Therefore, the good organisation of the National Assembly is certainly the first prerequisite for a successful work. And this law also partially interferes with organization. However, we will probably also have to supplement the Rules of Procedure in order to be able to arrange all of this in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Did you want a word as a proponent or a replica, Comrade Anderlich? As a proponent. You have your word at any time. Oh, okay, you'll be in the end. My friend Brenčič is not here. Comrade Badness, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I must say, we've heard a lot of big words in the last few months, maybe too big. Five years ago, when I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I was doing analyses myself. These analyses show that the European Parliament is an institution with which, in fact, Member States can help themselves very little. In particular, little help can be given to small members, who are also new members, such as Slovenia. And looking back, five years or ten years ago, as was the case with the European Parliament, it turns out that every five years the voter rate is lower. This means, again, the analysis shows that the lower the voter turnout in the European Parliament, the more conservative voters, the older voters, the rural voters, so that in fact the European Parliament has a very, very hollow blanket for the whole of Europe. In fact, all these things are happening in national parliaments and national governments. Do not let anyone pretend that the fate of national parliaments is, in fact, doomed to a long or shorter death, because, in particular, as I said, a small country such as Slovenia, which has seven members or Members, of which, at this moment, the most powerful liberal electricity, which is very weak in the European Parliament, which is a major argument that we really have to do everything we can here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u191	Comrade Peterle, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u192	I feel the need for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u193	You have no right to do that, but you have the right to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u194	As a perfect farmer for Mr Evil, I would like to say that I am surprised that so many observers in the European Parliament are turning, representatives of Krka, representatives of Lek, to such a small number of people are turning so many lobbyists to help them get through this or other interest. I would like to say that the presentation of the role of the European Parliament, which acquires greater powers under each contract, is not in line with reality. So this was really about replica because it was about explaining how things were.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u195	Sorry, there's no controversy in the bench first. That goes for both of us. Secondly, a replica can be given if it relates to the discussion of the previous debater and colleague Zląbec did not discuss you. In this respect, however, this was a typical issue, to be discussed in the framework of the debate on the draft law as a whole. However, since you have now mentioned my colleague the Evil One, I give him my word to explain the wrong statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u196	The fact is, there are fewer voters every five years. In the Netherlands, under 25 years of age, they practically do not go to the polls. 10%, 15% of people go to voters for European elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u197	Good. Mr Kramberger's colleague is missing, please, Mrs. Irma.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, MPs, MPs! To start with when Jash's colleague is finished. The democratic deficit is a phenomenon that long-term members of the European Union face every day and wonders what to do, what measures to take to help ensure that the decision-making process in the European Union, which will, of course, number 25 Member States after 1 May, represents 450 million people and residents. So how to strengthen control of this process and how this decision-making process should become more democratic, responsible, transparent and closer to the citizens and citizens of this new great community. And the next question raised by the members of the European Union and put to ourselves in the process of accession is whether, in our conduct and best practices in the Member States of the European Union, we, as a national Parliament, have taken advantage of the opportunities, opportunities which, with a transparent view to their regulation, have enabled us to become members of the European Union so far. What we're doing today is the answer is yes. The Protocol on the role of national parliaments, which is an integral part of the Treaty, the Constitutional Treaty, which is in the process of adoption at the level of the European Union and which was mentioned today by its colleague Brejc in the first part, recommends that the Member States of the European Union strengthen the role of national parliaments vis-à-vis their own governments participating in the decision-making process within the framework of the European Union institutions. What is before us today is the answer to this question. With, I will say, we have the result of this response to the hard work of our professional services and, if we accept it, we will, after one of the models of the current European Union, retain the best possible identifiable role of the national Parliament in the decision-making process within the European Union, which, of course, we are transferring to the hands of our governments. My assessment is that no changes in this regulation are necessary anymore, and the thorough debates have been held, and the amendments that are before us today, I am convinced that nothing contributes to what you, Mr Drobnic, have said, commitment, etc. I think we have clearly and loudly written down that the National Assembly participates in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia and not in all matters, but in those European matters which, by their content, would fall within our competence in accordance with constitutional and law. If we look at and compare the experience of the Member States of the European Union and Finland, which has been here for us as a model, we can see that such acts are 80 to 100 per year and are not afraid to deal with technical directives in the field of the internal market, for example, which fall within the competence of regulating under-law ministers, etc. Thus, the views that we will adopt in accordance with the procedure envisaged in the law really need to be clarified, and perhaps more so in the amendment. It is in the interest of all of us, all of us who live in the Slovenian national space - parliament, governments, etc. - that the representatives of our government are coming to the European institutions with the position of the Republic of Slovenia, with the view that the process will be co-formed, but that will be our country's position, that is, a united position. I think there's been a mix-up here. As long as the national assembly or the competent working bodies decide and adopt their positions, they shall bind the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the proceedings within the framework of the institution of the European Union. That was never the question, we even have a split procedure if this position fails to defend how to proceed. So here I think there's no doubt. We can see that what we are doing today is a privilege that we will incorporate into our institutional system. It is true, however, that the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the future provides for a substantial number of forms of intensification, the involvement of national parliaments in European integration, both cooperation with the European Parliament, both cooperation between national parliaments, between the Member States of the European Union and not least at the European Union Parliaments' conferences, has already been set up in some way to guide how to put these provisions of the Protocol into practice in order to make this cooperation truly intense, transparent and through national parliaments closer to European citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich, as the proposer, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u200	There are only three minutes left, and yet I would like to say some things as a Member. In particular, because I had the feeling that in this long debate since last spring, or since the theses that had been prepared already in the autumn of 2002 in the European Affairs Commission of this Parliament, that we had explained at this time all the essential instruments, modes of action and what this meant for tomorrow, when they wanted to or did not want to, they would, in part, have already changed, but the situation would definitely change. We will have to work in a way that will allow the measures taken by colleagues and colleagues in the European Parliament and, of course, in the European institutions as such to act quickly enough and that Slovenia will also contribute, on the one hand, to these decisions and that, on the other hand, it will be able to do so at home in everyday life. It is understandable that when you enter into a relationship with such a large number of people, citizens, nationals of other countries, that some of the manners that we have collected in coordination are in operation in the national Parliament, too much or must go aside and new rules must be put in place. I am still aware that the ease of staying, if I may say so, will be the end from the moment we have not only taken into account the directives, guidelines and so on, which are now being taken into account in the drafting of national legislation, but also when we have to act in practical ways in those conditions, in order to do so differently. There will be no chance that any issue that is hot bone, for example for our discussions, could simply be postponed to say, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, in one month, in two years, we will deal with it. I can, but the train will go, I hope not from Maribor to Graz, but from Maribor to Hodoš and then to Budapest. We have a problem with this, already in the stage when we are not there, but when our colleagues are present, things happen when individual amendments are voted on and so on. I wanted to illustrate that, in fact, perseverance in the procedure, in determining the time available, in contributing to the creation of those final positions in Brussels through this internal procedure, will be very important. In all this, however, it is necessary to say what Mr Petty Officer and I explained at the second reading. I was firmly convinced that we had explained how the positions in the Republic of Slovenia were forming and what they meant. The fact that he comes from Brussels to the government, in parallel to Parliament or through the government, is irrelevant. These modern communication pathways will probably allow anyone who needs to get some material in the shortest time to have the opportunity to co-form it and in the end to really say what he thinks of it. When we say what is going to happen in the end, we must say that we no longer have the kind of attitude. That we have no views, I will say in my quotations, couriers who carry them to Brussels - in this case they are Prime Minister, Ministers and so on - because theoretically they could also be their positions. We can have government positions co-formed and sent to the National Assembly for knowledge, and finally we can have Parliament's views on this issue. But all these views are the views of the Republic of Slovenia. If Parliament gives up, for example, it will be able to say, at some point, this great committee, I have come to know - or even as we now have in place, about the adoption of laws. If we do not say - there must be an appropriate majority of us - in order to carry out the first examination of the law, the publication in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly considers that the first hearing has been carried out. And in this way, it will be possible for the grand committee or committee responsible to say, "We will not call it, except for [[We'll probably sort it out in the rules of procedure.]] If anyone wants it, and the rules of procedure will require qualified majority to write down who is who - if we go, let's say, this way. However, I suppose that the committees - at least one - will be the ones that will deal with these things as the main concern if I leave them on the side of this security and foreign policy. I guess he'll be in session every week. I also assume that he will address all the issues there. I hope that, before that, there will be a mother labour force dealing with internal political stories, if I can say so again that these committees will have these views by then. If that is not the case, there will be a message, not a mother's working body, nor a mother's mother's voice, there is no special position, and the government will choose the position it has sent us as a proposal and exercise our interests. And this will be the position of the government, but it will be the position of the Republic of Slovenia. But when the Members say, and we want, it is envisaged, in what way, in the law in detail, how we come to the assembly, and then the assembly will adopt the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Not that, but what I'll say at the same time is government commitment. By being explained here, what it means to have this position. But this position is truly moral, it has a higher weight because Members can demand a vote on the confidence of the government if they ignore the views. But by weight it is, in fact, and from Brussels' point of view, totally no matter who created this position here, whether it is the government itself or the parliament. For us and for our internal relations, this is very important, but I suppose that in the next phase we will have to sort things out very soon in the rules of procedure so that there will be no misunderstandings. That's why I thought it was a good idea to make this clear. Even though I believed that we had explained this in a second reading. But how it will really work, and I am sure that we will only see, because I would not like to compare some of the situations within our local framework, because in the end, Slovenia will be a local thing under EU conditions, although it is a national, state thing that no one understands correctly, but I want to illustrate. When it will be difficult to bring some things home to some consensus, which in the end should really reflect the expectations of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm afraid of situations when there's a low quorum or the indiscretion of that big committee and there's going to be some position at the minimum, and then we'll explain later that it's not that someone has gone, I'll say, through what we thought, but, of course, I'll leave it for later. In order to overcome the blockades in such situations too, it is important that in the law this transition of materials and positions from Europe through the government, parliament and back has to be enabled so that there is nowhere to be said but because something has creaked at home, and we have no position or, let us wait in Brussels, we have to make a deal at home, that would of course be bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u201	You want a word as a proponent? Comrade Anderlich, do you also want a word as a candidate or can we move on? After the general discussion? Okay, then we go to the please, the government, wants a word now or in the debate on articles and amendments? [[...]] Good. Let's go to two articles - 4 and 6. The amendment shall be submitted to the first paragraph of Article 4 by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? All right, buddy Peterle. Within the time you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We think "would" is entirely unfounded or unnecessary, so we would end this "would" in our proposal because we are not in some contextual situations, what would we do if we were, etc. Article 3 of the Constitution is very clear and has fully stated what is Parliament's business and what is not, so we do not see any need for a "bit" because we are dealing with, after all, only what is within our jurisdiction, but not what would be. I don't care what it would be like to have nothing to grab. So, I think that's completely, I'd say, or we think that's clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u203	Good. Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u204	So, what is in charge is no point in us giving up, but we can also deal with things that do not otherwise fall within the jurisdiction of the law, and this is, of course, paragraph one, last paragraph in this article. On his own initiative, he can also address other EU matters on which he accepts declarations or similar matters, which are not within his jurisdiction. So, I think we've cleared these things up. Just because of the democratic deficit, which I agree with my colleague Krebs, we must be so much more careful that what is in charge here is decided, but in the National Assembly. However, how content is written in and the position is then even material and how it is used in decision-making at the European level is, of course, another issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u205	Colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Peterle, as "would" is not the one that is problematic in your amendment, it is problematic that you are saying that the National Assembly is shaping the positions of the Republic of Slovenia and that you are minimizing or explaining that, if this solution is adopted, the role of the National Assembly will be reduced or that our arrangement reduces the role of the National Assembly to the Consultative Body, which is not true and that is Mr Anderlich, I think, very multifacetedly has shown that, until the time that the Grand Committee or other competent body adopts its position in law, this is the position of the Republic of Slovenia. However, there are several options. So once again, if it is not, we will not accept the position, the position of the Republic of Slovenia will be the government's position if we decide and do not consider. That's the problem, Mr. Peterle. And I think the basic diction is really the one that has all the attributes of a good norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u207	My friend Anderlich. There's no controversy in the bench. My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u208	This amendment is actually dangerous. It is dangerous in that it could be left without the views of the Republic of Slovenia. For if the council of state does not take a stand, then it means that it is not. But the assumption is that the government must have it and the National Assembly in this context cancels its supervisory role, the one called by the government, you then and then in Brussels, what is sometimes happening to us now, have let some thing go through without having a position and have some irreparable consequences for Slovenia. However, if you take this position and fail to form this position, this country does not have a position. This can be very dangerous and problematic. He can deny some form of position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u209	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u210	No, Mr. Anderlich, because it's a security guard, because we have it in our marriage. It's the principle of organ silence. If the National Assembly doesn't do this, then we know what it's like. We have a record in the law, only this nomotechnician is. The National Assembly shall adopt, as long as it does not accept, within a specified period of time or after such procedures, the principle of silence of the Authority. And still, Slovenia comes with a position to deal with the bodies at the European level.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u211	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u212	But look - as a proposaler, let there be some time left there - see, this means that there can be no positions at all if the views of the Republic of Slovenia are only those views adopted by the National Assembly. That's the fundamental difference. We do, and it's also arranged elsewhere for some of the things to be taken over by the government, especially those operational ones. There, as I understand and, as I am monitoring this situation in this European Union, a whole series of regulations, guidelines and so on, which are communicated by the European Commission and governments and, of course, there is a decision in these bodies. And for any such thing that only then would it be the position of the Republic of Slovenia, if the National Assembly adopted its position, would it be too demanding for the whole operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u213	Please, my friend, Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u214	I think the diction is clear. See, the National Assembly forms the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in those EU matters which, by their content, fall within its jurisdiction under the Constitution and the laws. If something falls under the authority of the Government, then the Government accepts what is within its jurisdiction and are the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. That's clear. This does not cancel the National Assembly of Nothing, which is within its jurisdiction. Only on one condition, if it does not form, do we have a procedure in place to make these positions also the views of the Republic of Slovenia. Under what conditions? Even if he doesn't, that's what they become. That's how I think this "bi" is problematic. This "bi" is problematic, at least the "we should" dictate. Let's "bo" - not conditioned. It's like we're afraid of this national council. To touch something. Well, nor is the norm, the word "bi" is not a proper nomotechnic word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u215	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u216	The whole structure is designed in such a way and including this article that all powers under the Constitution and the law which are under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly continue to be the responsibility of the National Assembly. I really thought that we were in the final discussion now, so I did not explain the individual article again, even though I explained it earlier. This means for the first time: what the National Assembly has in its constitution and laws for its tasks remains and continues to do. But all other things can also - if he wants to, if he has the will, time and so on to do so, he can do exactly anything that is the subject of debate and decision in the institutions of the European Union, the National Assembly can deal with it and form a position; and this position, if it is formed, becomes the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, the position of the Republic of Slovenia is that of the government. It's perfectly clear, and I think we can move on. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u217	Can we move on to number six? Can I close the debate on the fourth? Okay. Then we go to Article 6. Here we have the amendment of the SNS Group of Members and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word on this? No, no, no. Please, my friend Peterle. She's only a few minutes away.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u218	Yes, I must insist on Article 6, even if it is the amendment of another parliamentary group, in the word "right" because I think it allows us a much more flexible decision-making option and leads us into less trouble, than if the written thing is so that it is understood that a committee's position on the substantive salary must be taken for each matter, it is said, a parent's working body. If there's no word "right," of course it is. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] And it is also understood that if there is no such thing, the committee does not discuss it, because it does not discuss it, but the government has its own position. [[...]] For me, this is also support for laziness.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u219	Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate, and I am also terminating this item on the agenda. Today, according to the timetable, we will begin to vote at 19.55 p.m. and, among other decisions, we will also make a final decision on this law. At 4:05 p.m., i.e. in less than ten minutes, the National Assembly will proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. This is a fairly long debate, up to eight o'clock. Until the beginning of this debate, I am taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's an evocative proposal for a decision on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, which I welcome on this occasion, the Minister and the co-workers. And, of course, I give the floor to the Minister for further explanation of the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u221	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members. The strategy for spatial development of Slovenia or for the domestically said new state spatial plan comes before you after long and extensive preparations, and you might say late, perhaps too late. The new social situation since 1991 or since 1990, the accelerated development of the market economy, the new sources of spatial development in the European Union, universal globalisation and other such processes require a rapid response to development needs and planning at national level. This, rather than focusing on the planning of the target states, allows flexibility and long-term decision-making. We still have a 1986 social spatial plan, which has been overrun a long time ago. The instruments adopted by the new Space Regulation Act and the new Building Law are, of course, totally unadapted to the existing spatial plan, which is called mandatory starting points, but implies a new strategically oriented spatial document, entitled Spatial Development Strategy. Something small in the difference between the current plan and the strategy. The current plan specifies the spatial definition, the strategy sets out the strategic spatial definition. The current plan is made at 1:250 000, the spatial development strategy at 1: 1 000 000. The current plan foresees that at the lower levels, i.e. municipalities, it is necessary to take into account mandatory starting points, the spatial development strategy speaks of the need to take into account guidelines and starting points, all the guidance and all the starting points of the spatial development strategy, so they do not make differences between mandatory and optional starting points. The current plan requires the verification of compliance with the mandatory starting points, the spatial development strategy from the plans below, for example from the municipalities, requires the verification of the substantive compatibility of spatial acts with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and on the basis of its next act, which will be called the spatial order of Slovenia. The legal basis for the strategy is, of course, laid down in the Space Regulation Act, which was adopted at the end of 2002, or the spatial development strategy itself has long been longer than that. By the end of the 1990s, Dr Pavel Gantar, Minister of State, had begun to draw up a new spatial plan, or in accordance with previous legislation and much of the professional work that we still need today, had already been done. Then, during my term of office in 2001, I continued this project, and in 2002 we had already refocused it on the preparation of the spatial development strategy, because at that time the first and second consideration of the space regulation law was already in Parliament and we had already set up new instruments. Well, on the basis of the then adopted space regulation law, the formal strategy was formed for about a year, and at that time we also held a spatial conference, as the law stipulates, i.e. a public hearing in which, I say, a considerable number of non-governmental organisations, and in particular individual municipalities, were involved. Thus, communication with the congregations in preparing this document was already very intense. The objectives of the Spatial Development Strategy could be reduced to a few important indents. The first objective is rational and effective spatial development. Another, which could be called the central objective, is to develop a polycentric network of cities and other settlements; this is the basis of a complete strategy. So there is no more emphasis on the centre, but a strategy based on the development of a polycentric network of cities and other settlements. The objective of the strategy is to increase the competitiveness of individual Slovenian cities in the European space, further quality development and attractiveness of cities and other settlements, consistent development of areas with common spatial and developmental characteristics, complementing the functions of rural and urban areas, linking infrastructure networks with European infrastructure systems, prudent use of natural resources, spatial development, consistent with spatial constraints, cultural diversity as a basis for national spatial visibility, conservation of nature and environmental protection. I do not believe that this document needs to be presented in more detail in this introduction. Finally, after a spatial conference conducted by the government, there was also a public presentation of opinions on this document in Parliament. I would just like to briefly explain why the strategy envisages the entry into force on 1 July this year. On 21 July this year, the European Directive on a comprehensive environmental impact assessment shall enter into force. If we do not adopt this strategy before the 21st of July of this year, and on the basis of it we must adopt the spatial order of Slovenia, which is a government act for which we also need a few days of adoption, although everything is already prepared - in short, if we do not adopt these two acts before the 21st of July this year, then I hope that we will not adopt them for very long. This also applies, of course, to all municipal spatial acts which will not be concluded by 21 July of this year. This is why the strategy, which is a new strategic document, is being adopted by chance just before the entry into force of the directive, is coming at the right time in the parliamentary branch, as a new generation of municipal spatial plans will also have to be created on the basis of the spatial development strategy. In many Slovene municipalities, expert preparations for the construction of their own, municipal, spatial development strategies have already begun. That is why, of course, this strategy must be adopted before 1 July of this year, in theory, we could say that we have time to go somewhere on July 10th, because then we need at least 10 days to deal with and adopt spatial order in the government, but we cannot delay more than that date. Therefore, of course, I ask you to approach the debate on the strategy constructively. After all, Slovenia really needs it, because living with a 20-year old spatial plan, which was designed for a completely different situation in this society, is a developmental constraint. And that's why we need this file. With useful additions, which I am sure will continue to appear in the parliamentary procedure, we will, of course, all of us will be able to make it rich together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Ivan Kebric, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u223	Vice President, thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, DeSUS, is as follows when proposing a decision amending the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. The motion for a decree that is before us today is one of the basic documents with which we guide the development of the space we live in in the long term. Slovenia, with its 20,256 square kilometres, is one of the small European countries and, given the diversity of the landscapes in its territory, is one of the countries with the most diverse geographical structure of the land. More! We can say that Slovenia is one of the few countries where, in such a small territory and at small distances, we find the high mountains, the Alps, the Mediterranean, the Adriatic Sea as the pre-Alpine landscape and the Pannon Valley. That is why this space in history has always been interesting from a political and strategic point of view, because it represented and today represents one of the important European intersections between the north and the south-east and the west and east of Europe. The assessment of the situation of the space we live in should take into account the social, historical, economic, environmental and other factors that have affected the development of our space in the past and carefully consider how we will put development ahead in the future. This is where a new chapter is opening up, and above all, the process of Europeanisation and globalisation with all the advantages and weaknesses they bring with them. The European integration of Slovenian space into the wider European space is undoubtedly a special challenge for us, as we will have to ensure ourselves and the environment in which we live, quality, development and conditions in which we will be able to ensure our continued existence, together with our national and regional specificities, with the permanent impact of the current many neighbouring more numerous and stronger centres. We therefore support all the solutions in the draft decree that envision coherent regional development, with the need to stimulate the development of regional urban centres, which, through their infrastructure and the quality of their stay, will allow such concentration of the population, so that regional centres can ensure such a level of economic and social life, so that they are interesting and attractive to their immediate surroundings, including rural areas and even more so, so that they can perform with sovereignty and cooperate with neighbouring centres. I would also draw attention to a problem that is essential to the realization of what I have just been talking about; that is, providing housing for young families, young people. We need to ensure that they have a financial opportunity to purchase real estate at national and regional centres. Unfortunately, the current prices do not allow them to do so, and we can call this an alarming situation. In view of the traffic situation of Slovenia, which lies at the intersection of Barcelona-Kiev and Hamburg-Istanbul corridors, more attention is needed in addition to road transport, which is therefore important from an ecological point of view from the point of view of the decommissioning of the motorway. In doing so, we must not neglect other parts of Slovenia, which must have a quality connection with the local environment and also regional and national. This includes other infrastructure that enables successful economic development and quality of life, notably electricity, telecommunications, water, etc. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we estimate that the proposal for a decree on the spatial development strategy in Slovenia is well prepared and that it contains programmes and objectives that will enable sufficient quality development of the space we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u225	Dear President! Mr Minister, colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! The Minister said that this document required a long preparatory debate, but unfortunately I must find that we Members of Parliament do not have much time to discuss this, because this is how he wants to get through this Parliament quickly. As far as the spatial development strategy is concerned, I must find that this document, which is before us, provides a declaration of spatial development trends so far, explains possible options for spatial development by presenting weaknesses and advantages in principle. This document is full of expressions, such as: we want, we want, we want, we must, it is wise and so forth, which are valuable sub-menus that cannot be realised in themselves if the criteria and criteria for their achievement are not added, unless measures are added to implement development and spatial policies. Such desires are explained in their own way, on the basis of their own values or as dictated by the current situation. Such a decree is also too extensive. Instead of being compact, the document is drawn up in long explanations and explanations, which even repeat themselves on the same content several times. Too much hospitality, which is at all characteristic of our resolutions, is born to impreciseness, and in some ways is the decree before us. The strategy ahead of us could be said in the grave, as it were called, "the blueprint for the construction of Slovenia". The basis for this implementation is certainly the law on space regulation. The strategy should not be a very general document, which is this decree, but an operational document at national level, which would give the local community sufficient development opportunities. The vitality and attractiveness of rural and urban areas will depend not only on this spatial strategy, but mainly on social, infrastructure, environmental and other policies, all of which will depend, of course, on the financial instrument that this country will offer to implement these policies. This document should define objectives and clear guidelines with the envisaged deadlines, resources, measures and spatial development agents. It should be clear who is responsible for the overall implementation and also for the control of the non-executive direction under this Decision. The claim that the policy of polycentrism so far has meant the comprehensive development of regionally important centres, as stated in the explanation of this decree, is ours to hold. The Slovenian government has ignored polycintriism in terms of the development of urban centres and has not led urban development policies. The theory of the development of less developed areas remained more or less on paper, at the declaration level. Here this claim could only be demonstrated by one example, for example, an example of uncontrolled growth of trading centres in larger centres and at the expense of this collapse of small and medium-sized markets, which causes the recovery of smaller rural centres. Long ago, the square of shopping centres on the periphery should be limited to the size of the settlement and also to the size of the settlements themselves, such as those of neighbouring Austria. The spatial situation so far is strongly reflected in the growing building of agricultural land. The Earth strategy must be in the function of rational urban and rural development while protecting the environment. For example, on the 65th page of this document it is stated that infrastructure facilities should be placed in a space in such a way that they do not cause fragmentation of closed agricultural areas. If we really stuck to it, the highways would be different from what they are today. Together, we should advocate sustainable spatial development and anticipate such use of space and spatial arrangements as to protect nature and natural goods without jeopardising future generations. Natural resources should have the highest priority to state only the situation in the area of one of these natural resources, namely agricultural land. In 1950, only 0.35 hectares were added to the population in Slovenia, and in 2000 only 0.35 hectares fell to the fields and gardens in 1950 0.21 hectares, while in 2000 it fell to about 0.11 hectares. Today, only 0.09 people fall away from the population in Slovenia, which ranks us on the tail of the European scale. If we continue with the agricultural land as before, Slovenia will be 111 years from now, so have experts in this field, without working agricultural land, and without crops in 57 years. The pressure on the change of destination from fields to construction plot has increased in recent years, both by municipalities and by the design and construction sphere. Construction plans are increasingly aggressive and have a powerful impact on the agricultural area. In all of this, they play an important role in speculation about land and thus make a significant profit in changing land into a building plot. There is no doubt that this process will further accelerate the national housing savings scheme, which is an additional demand for construction plots. This government obviously does not realize that agricultural land should be protected for several reasons. Firstly, all industrially developed countries have strong agriculture, but of course it is not without working surfaces. No regulated European country has left the agricultural land and forests to the liberal laws of the market and to the speculative functioning of individuals, as is the case with us. The conservation of agricultural land in the long term ensures the development of the economy, tourism, the preservation of cultural landscapes, the settlement of space, biodiversity and thus the broadest national interest in sovereignty and security. The foundation of the land is, we must be aware of it, a one-way and irreversible process. The country must not become too dependent on imported food, this is particularly dangerous if certain crisis situations occur. Since I am running out of time, I would like to define only one question, namely, the proposaler on page 82 mentions functional regions. It says that functional regions are geographically, functionally and economically rounded areas with an average population of 150,000. Regrettably, however, I must conclude that the Government has introduced a law on coherent regional development that does not follow the principle enshrined in this decree into the National Assembly. This law, which has been tabled, is intended to replace the existing law on coherent regional development. Developmental differences between the most developed and least developed areas in Slovenia have, in fact, increased since the law on coherent regional development has been in force, I could say, worsened. Also, the new law that is now being introduced into the national assembly does not speak in this direction in order to change the situation in this area. Instead of the 12 statistical regions so far, the new law offers us 14 development regions, which will increase bureaucracy and reduce the financial resources that the country would devote to coherent regional development. In fact, if we make that decision, it doesn't matter whether we have 13 or 14 developmental regions or, as this document calls them, functional regions. It is important to consider strengthening the regional image of Slovenia in the future, but not weakening, because, on the other hand, regional functions in some countries in our neighbourhood are being strengthened, for example in Austria they are developing very strongly the area of Graz and, on the other hand, Italy is very close with its development trends. And the question is what will happen on this basis in Slovenia if we do not soon realize that this regional image of Slovenia needs to be arranged in a completely different way than the ruling coalition is now trying to do. Let me finish. In Novi Slovenija we will not support this decree for the reasons I have stated. I would also like to remind representatives of the government that there is a lack of road link on page 48 of the Slovenian Bistrica-Ptuj-Ormož road link, as we adopted in the resolution of the national programme. I hope that this matter will be corrected by the third reading of this decree - I do not know how otherwise - and add this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! The spatial development strategy currently on the table is a document to be adopted by the National Assembly on the basis of the provisions of the law on space regulation. This is a very important document reflecting the country's policies and objectives in national space management. This document should, to a large extent, be a summary of regional programmes expressing the interests of local communities and the interests of broader, yet informal, territorial links, with the upgrading or addition of state content in particular. This is, in my opinion, a very important document, which is the basis for a whole range of other more detailed sector-specific documents to guide developments in space. It must therefore be synchronized and coordinated, taking into account the aspirations of space, local and regional interests, the views and warnings of NGOs, experts from different professions and so on. The aim of each normal country is to use its space and use it to ensure that the territory develops as evenly as possible and to develop in it those content that provides the people with the right benefits of sustainable environmental burdens. The fact is, due to a rather scattered settlement and a low average population, Slovenia has a favourable potential for relatively well-controlled and non-concentrated environmental burden-taking interventions to the premises, so that, taking into account the needs and spatial opportunities and accessibility periods, it can preserve all the values of our space, but the actual events show a very different picture. Due to the adaptation of all policies, including spatial, exclusively capital needs and the development of multiple centres in which citizens concentrate, the relationship between urban and rural populations has changed significantly in recent years. Trends are obvious and, above all, the attitude of the ruling policy shows nothing that will change. All the measures proposed by the Government and intended for coherent regional development, namely polycentrism, have more or less the opposite effect, since all negative trends, whether economic, social, settlement, demographic or any other indicators, remain. This shows that measures, laws and laws do not achieve the desired effect, nor can they, because even the law on coherent regional development is non-selective and swords into the same basket of rich and poor areas and have the same rights as rich areas in obtaining development funds and state aid. In fact, the law on coherent regional development is based on the fact that development funds for coherent regional development and support for a sustainable environment are channelled to developmental or larger urban centres and are thus also sucked into the rural population. Some large and rounded developmental areas are linked to the developed centres, thus raising the indicators of the affected areas to a high average, thus eliminating their problems and consequently reducing the share of State aid. If developmental areas are to be truly revived, then rich cities and municipalities and resources should be excluded from such areas or regions and directed exclusively to endangered areas. We know that the country cannot directly create new jobs in cities or in rural areas, and that opinions are economic jobs, but with selective support it can do much to help investors make decisions. However, as the state has not developed sufficient and stimulating incentives for investing outside the centres, capital is located in cities, sometimes located and concentrated even in sites of natural value. For example, the operations and opening of various zones at the Ljubljana Bar are such, even though Ljubljana had degraded and unexploited areas before the Bar attack. Yesterday we also passed a law on corporate income tax. The opposition has proposed additional relief in the case of investments in rural deficit production programmes. It does not need to be emphasized that the majority of the coalition has rejected the supplement. One of the options that the ruling policy should make much better use of if it is really about harmonious development is also public, i.e. state investment in areas with developmental problems in social standard facilities, in facilities of common importance that address the problems of certain population groups, such as the problems of the elderly, the disabled, the problems of secondary education, the secondary school population and so on. Many countries could do so; even more, they should do so. These facilities in the countryside would retain a quality, professionally trained workforce, that is to say educated people, offered quality, well-paid and safe jobs. This would allow the maintenance or development of a whole range of service activities. Daily migration and transport spikes would be significantly reduced. In the countryside, new jobs would remain or even become new jobs, people would be employed at home, there would be opportunities for new entrepreneurial programmes, cultural, sports and other activities would develop. However, it is very difficult to obtain investors in areas where everything escapes. I'm sure you'd also be saving a country that's now steadily failing. Coherent regional development is thus more labour-related, programme-related work, and an excuse to supply additional resources to larger regional centres, where new peoples and suburbs are emerging, with progressive concentration of all social problems, while rural areas are without staff and without serious consumers. That is why we cannot talk about harmonious development, nor about polycentrism, all of which is some kind of convenient floscule. Migration processes and migrations to larger centres leave behind many empty, communally regulated economic or industrial zones and numerous empty apartments. At the same time, this process creates pressure on the construction of new industrial zones and residential complexes. Unbalanced measures, types of policies and strategies result in unnecessary imbalances and unnecessary needs for an urbanised, i.e. permanently degraded area, which needlessly destroys the landscape. Preservation of rural areas would require significantly less resources than the unnecessary opening of new urbanised units in cities. It would only be necessary to invest in some part of the road or railway in a timely manner in order to increase capacity and accessibility, to open up an object of wider importance and to give slightly more selective incentives to start the economy. While some of this is already available in the national budget, some of it is already being implemented and some of it needs to be redesigned, upgraded, substantive and time-consuming in order to achieve the objectives that we are pursuing in a series of documents. The extreme negative effects in rural areas have also been the result of an unrealised agricultural reform. Ministers, including the latter, were more or less concerned only with trying to provide assistance and support to individual, so-called environmental programmes, including the role of social and social support through or through Brussels. Almost nothing was done in the restructuring of the farms. The commotions were small, with regard to fragmentation significantly understated. Even less, the systemic approach to the creation of agricultural units had sufficient surfaces to meet at least the lower threshold of the financial scope of agricultural holdings in order to achieve at least the economic minimum for which a young boy would be a challenge and a profession. Thus, from farms, everyone flees to other occupations and other places, returning home late in the afternoon or just for weekends. About three thousand farms, ten a day, fail each year, leaving the vast majority of the farmland to grow. The absence of a serious agricultural policy has also led to a significant outflow to cities. The result of unorganised and systematic neglect of cultural landscapes and the cultivation of cultural landscapes or the cultivation of agricultural land is that about a percentage of agricultural land per year falls. In the last ten years, 10% of them have fallen, that's worrying. Exclusion is replaced by chemistry, biology, genetics, and imports. Any of this is short-term, but surely in the long term, should be genetically modified or with excessive chemical agents and supplements produced by food. That we do not even talk about other environmental consequences, such as impacts on groundwater or air. Forest surfaces are increasing and biomass is growing. However, even in the use of wood biomass, we are not effective and it is becoming increasingly large, and part of it falls where it originated. The energy value of at least 70% of the wood mass by the oxidation process, i.e. by the process of sonar combustion, explodes into the air. Despite the exceptional potential for use, we have not developed any sufficient incentives and support and have not introduced any regime of energy prices to increase the economic potential for wood biomass. We did not do this because we would have hit traders and merchants too directly with liquid fuels for coals, for their profits and perhaps for their contributions to the tax box. The efficient use of biomass may require some less storage capacity, may require some 10,000 tonnes less fuel, and a significantly lower contribution to poor environmental performance or poor greenhouse gas balance. In this case, the madmen would play a real and not just a statistical or accounting role. Farmers would receive additional incentives, including foresters, to employ a few more people, and the timber industry, in particular consumers of enormous amounts of wood residues for the production of cvericles, fibers or paper production, could rely much more on their own resources. In this combination, there would also be sufficient raw materials for remote or energy needs. That's what makes us so funny. We are the second or third most forested country in Europe, and we import wood cutters and other foreign or slightly smaller timber products from countries that have a significantly smaller share of the forest have, say, a well-developed wood processing industry and perhaps even a larger share of remote heating on wood biomass in the energy balance. And we're acting like Americans. If we fail to concentrate and rationally channel all measures into economic and agricultural policies, then all strategies relating to spatial or any other development are completely ineffective and unnecessary. If trends do not reverse, then strategies and other higher or lower documents and acts are totally unnecessary. A responsible politician should take the initiative to examine his conscience, or he should carry out the so - called comrade’s self - criticism. As a result, the countryside is increasingly becoming a reserve dedicated only to the excessive stock of game and, above all, to the beast. Above all, in the south, it is likely that a kind of genetic bank, the genetic stock of the beast for the entire European space, will be established. Nice, but there are also people who manage and maintain their part of the cultural landscape. Conservation should also be in the interest of the State. However, in those locations they compete with protected game and animals, which also have a great advantage in the area of cultural landscape. The damages for the ruined year are low, and compensation for accidents needs to be even appealed to the State, although they are much lower than the redundancies of LDS managers. The rural area is thus becoming increasingly only a reservoir of healthy drinking water and an extremely convenient space for the establishment of large, central waste landfills; in short, an extremely convenient place for permanent disposal of urban problems. The current and future developments have an enormous impact on transport routes and corridors. Obviously, there has been no policy here for a long time, it is evident that there is a completely absent systemic approach and that everything is happening extremely asynchronous. In some areas we build highways and parallel roads, elsewhere only motorways, and somewhere we don't even make a decent connection of the state road to the highway cross, so we don't even talk about outdated railways. We are developing only the most environmentally burdensome modes of transport: passenger, passenger and freight transit. At the same time, even the economic power, the strategic position of the inpotential of the Kori port, is not enough motive for us to pursue the arrangements for a decent railway connection and thus ensure and consolidate the dominance of the Adriatic area. If competition develops, for which it has every opportunity, we can only talk about one more opportunity. Reducing rural populations is also one of the reasons for reducing the need for line connections, especially after bus transport. The number of passengers is falling rapidly, increasing pressure on already poor municipalities to co-finance the maintenance of routes and so on. However, the instruments and resources allocated by the State to subsidise transport in the public sector have been used very irrationally. From the text of the strategy's explanations, it is clear that the development of migration will continue to focus on higher concentrations, larger settlements and that the process of moving from small settlements to larger ones will continue, which will only deepen rural problems. It would also make sense for the government to agree on what regions it would like. Every minister who has the opportunity to develop the concept of the region's advantage. Thus, we already have statistical regions, and the development region, which is governed by the law on coherent regional development, we have administrative regions, and this strategy introduces the concept of a functional region. For citizens who are the users of government killings and the National Assembly, such an innovative approach is completely superfluous. I have brought down only a few problems that are present daily and where policy is not effective, where there are significant deviations from the stated objectives in various laws, strategies, programmes and elsewhere. The present strategy will not eliminate these derogations, as it is largely a summary of individual government resources strategies, is a summary of government coalition policy, which is very selective, unfriendly to rural areas, capital and larger cities and some people. All activities related to the harmonious and polycentric development of Slovenia are virtual. And also this strategy, regardless of the big words that will accompany it, means only strengthening this virtuality, and the real things are happening in parallel worlds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia is certainly one of the most important documents that we accept in this mandate, as this is the basis for the preparation of other spatial documents such as the spatial order of the country, the regional design of spatial development, the spatial development strategy of municipalities and the spatial order of municipalities. Therefore, in all these documents we will have to define very precisely both the development of infrastructure and the development of the economy, the settlement and, above all, the conservation of water resources as the most basic raw materials for survival in some environment. At the same time, in the Group of Members, of course, the question arises whether we have enough quality and quality data to be able to accept such an important document. We can certainly rely on the resolutions already drawn up and adopted, namely the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, the resolution on the national energy programme, the national housing programme; the equipment for the national road safety programme, the resolution on the national programme on culture, the strategy for the development of the labour market and employment. So, it's just a few strategic documents that allow us to have enough information to produce a suitable spatial document. Of course, there is a much bigger question as to how to resolve those areas that do not yet have these strategic documents. Above all, we miss transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia, we miss a national programme to increase the capacity of state roads, we miss a national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, because it is not implemented to the desired extent, but only to the minimum, which means significant deviations from what has been stated in this programme. Nor do we have a national programme for the development of civil aviation. Also for regional spatial development designs that are ongoing and are being prepared on the basis of statistical regions, we find that they are in the final stage, but somehow they will be stopped by the spatial development strategy and will probably have to adapt to what we will accept and record in the strategy. This can, of course, lead to the re-costing of preparing a regional spatial development design in individual regions and, of course, this is something that is not good or if the material so far is not well integrated into this strategy, it will cause a lot of discomfort. It is good that the proposaler is aware of all these problems and that these documents are not available and has also identified the negative effects of today's situation in the spatial development strategy. In particular, the pressures on space that have a negative impact on the state of the environment are observed, the most important ones on the outskirts of major cities and employment centres, the areas with connections to major transport corridors and the landscape-attractive areas and, of course, on the coasts of the sea. The negative effect is also seen in inadequate management of natural resources, which causes different degradation and protection of areas and excessive agricultural intensity and expansion of settlements. From a development perspective, urban areas are also problematic due to lack of land for construction and not extraordinary reconstruction programmes. The consequences of inadequate land policy are reflected in the problems of organising the real estate market and also in the area of irrational construction. We also detect problems due to geographical characteristics, different road accessibility and consequently different economic growth between the regions of Slovenia, as differences are today, we find that between the weaker and more developed still very large. The rail and transport network is being updated too slowly and the constant increase in road transport is causing new infrastructure requirements and public passenger transport is losing importance, and, of course, the use of passenger transport is becoming increasingly widespread. These are negative trends that the applicant has detected and is, of course, trying to solve, so he has also identified the objectives in this document, which I would, of course, want to remedy. These objectives are particularly seen in the way that development and targeted activities in space should go in order to create the greatest positive effects for spatially balanced and economically efficient development, social cohesion and the quality of the natural and residential environment. This is an important aspect of the spatial development of Slovenia. Promoting the development of national and regional importance centres and the development of regional development zones for productive and service activities, ensuring the quality of the housing environment with adequate and rational infrastructure, with a developed network of economic and service activities and accessibility to social public infrastructure. This must also, of course, be included in the link with the networks, with European infrastructure systems and with these challenges and objectives, these problems that have been identified can be addressed. In this regard, of course, it is also necessary to identify priorities and to identify priorities and see priorities in achieving these objectives in moderately large cities and other urban settlements, which are appropriately linked within regional areas. The network of railways and roads functionally linked to the European transport network is developing in line with the network of cities and other settlements. The countryside is also becoming a space of diverse activities, which, in connection with cities, acts as a harmonious mosaic of natural and cultural quality. Finally: with the planned development of border areas and their centres, as well as with the development of activities covering not only the needs of Slovenia, but also with their influences across borders, the impact of larger neighbouring, urban areas is balanced and the integration of edge areas with central Slovenian space is possible. These are priorities that, in our opinion, would also lead to better development than has been seen today in the field of Slovenia. Of course, measures and principles on how to achieve such development are defined in different variants and these variants are reflected mainly in the way these objectives can be achieved in a way that allows for spontaneous spatial development, but this spontaneous spatial development means that two extreme forms can occur. One is the total population concentration of the urban area and, on the other hand, extraordinary dispersion. If we are talking about concentration, spontaneous spatial development would certainly result in a sudden increase in the attractiveness of Ljubljana and its region and, of course, the headquarters of manufacturing and even more service companies and the most demanding service activities and, of course, a highly qualified staff would concentrate in this central region. Therefore, spontaneous spatial development is probably not a suitable form. At the same time, complete dispersion means less concentration of activity, as everything is subordinated only to the principles of marketing, jobs would be scattered, people would probably be just satisfied with their housing and the number of daily migrants would increase in all directions. We believe that spontaneous spatial development is not an appropriate form, including intensive spatial development as a second way to address these problems is, of course, extremely appropriate in the eye; however, if we find that the exploitation of all natural resources would lead to major problems in all areas of development, the concentration of capital would also lead to the likely intensive development of both rural areas and other parts of Slovenia. However, an account that would have been set aside for the exploitation of all natural resources would probably be too large for Slovenia if we went into intensive spatial development. The next extreme that may arise is the active protection of spatial values. It's a different extreme. The intensive protection option refers to Slovenia as an ecological reserve. The variant represents the highest level of protection and, in addition, a satisfactory development option, with the aim of ensuring the normative protection of natural and cultural values at almost half of the space in Slovenia. This means, at the same time, that these areas of development activities should be limited or even excluded. This extreme is also unacceptable in our view and, therefore, we join the proposal's thinking to draw up a proposal for sustainable spatial development, but we note that sustainable spatial development, which, of course, would provide economically efficient, environmentally sound and structurally coherent planning in space, is now somewhat awkwardly recorded in this document, as we find that some areas actually allow spontaneous spatial development, some intensive spatial development, and some areas are identified as actively protecting spatial values. Therefore, if we want to introduce sustainable spatial development, this development should be divided into all these elements throughout the territory of Slovenia, otherwise Slovenia will reach two speeds. For it is insufferable that 30% of Slovenia, as provided for in this document, would be protected by a variety of protective regimes and would in fact reject the development of this area, but the second part or two thirds of Slovenia would, of course, develop much, much faster. Thus this document is certainly not properly designed in this part and we would like to point out here in particular that it is 30% of the protected area from the southern border, from Kočevska, through Notranjska, Idrija to Triglav National Park. It is not appropriate to simply exclude one belt and say: with this area we have now achieved that nature-protection goal to protect 30% of the territory. It is impossible to exclude 30% of the territory as a complex from development trends. These areas of protection of value, active protection of spatial values and intensive spatial development, spontaneous spatial development, must be included in all these areas in a way that we can reach 30% of the protected areas throughout Slovenia, and we must by no means concentrate the protected areas in one place and allow development elsewhere to flow substantially, significantly faster. With these warnings, we expect to be able to complete this document further and to adopt it within the expected deadline, as announced by the Minister. However, we also have concerns about the procedures already under way that the municipalities are leading in the preparation of spatial acts, as the rapid adoption of the spatial strategy will also lead to the rapid adoption of the State spatial order and further municipal other acts - some are still in the process. It is likely that it would be prudent to allow the completion of all the acts under way and only later to apply the new spatial order in the municipalities, or that substantial resources will be needed to prepare new acts. However, if this were to happen, we believe that the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, as the holder of this project, should provide resources in a similar manner as it has provided for the digitisation of the space and thus allow for faster production of new documents, otherwise very serious problems will arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by Franci Rokavec on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting to the Minister with a team, a Member and a Member of Parliament! The process of globalisation, integration into the European Union and subsequent adaptation to European standards, as well as changes in the economic and social structure of the population and changes in lifestyles, also mean changes in the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia. The strategy is a fundamental state-level document for the direction of development in space and, in conjunction with the core national development documents, sets out strategic orientations for development, activities and baselines for coordinating their development policies in space. The spatial strategy sets out the starting points for all levels of spatial planning, both for national, regional and local levels, and thus the planning of spatial arrangements of national importance, in particular in terms of ensuring balanced spatial development in the country. The Space Regulation Act provides that the strategy is one of two strategic State spatial acts. In addition to the strategy, this is already the spatial order of the Republic of Slovenia, of course at the state level. We have set out the objectives of the spatial development of Slovenia, including priorities and guidelines for achieving this, which should allow for coherent regional spatial development, integration into European space and preservation of national spatial identity. It seems important to us that Slovenia is equally involved in European space, as this will try to make it possible to connect with the European space for promoting development in border areas and the integration of infrastructure networks into European infrastructure networks. At the same time, it is also important to have joint development programmes that will allow additional financial resources from the European Union’s Structural Funds to be generated. However, there is an increasing number of residents in cities and the emptying of hilly parts of our country. It is stated that the empties already cover almost 40% of the Slovenian state's surface, which is worrying. The problem in question must be given attention, allowing those who insist on these areas the conditions to allow them, despite the distance and problems we have because of the area where they live, to live in such a way of life, to persist in these areas. In connection with this proposal, I would like to mention some of the facts concerning rural areas. It should be stressed that the Slovenian countryside is a spatial, developmental, historical category where 57.3% of the population lives. On the basis of this aspect, we must refer to rural development as a development that is in the interest of the people of the Republic of Slovenia. The preserved cultural landscape, the varied nature, the great biodiversity, the diversity of customs are also values that we need to understand and be aware of. It should be borne in mind that the Slovenian countryside is a consequence of the life and work of generations of people, that such a cultural landscape is a living organism to which we must approach actively in its preservation, protection and development. That is why it needs an integrated development that serves and helps people in the countryside to live better. It is necessary to take advantage of the conditions for tourism, recreation and the like, and to provide accommodation for people from urban centres. At the same time, by re-ordering to determine whether all building sites in existing spatial documents still make sense or how to better protect the most quality agricultural land from building. With regard to the development of the polycentric urban system and regional spatial development, the strategy states that it constitutes a two-stage structured network of centres of national and regional importance, which is also linked to the network of other centres. At these centres, we are skeptical of their determination. We believe that the proposals were made for the most incomprehensible reasons, and this raises the question whether the establishment of the centres was purely for professional reasons. We further believe that, due to the needs and specificities of the individual environment, agreement with local communities should also be found in determining these. When establishing these provisions, they should allow for a faster procedure for amending and supplementing the spatial order, so-called tolerance in the adoption of spatial plans. In fact, by 1996 a faster change of destination had been made possible; it should be ensured that, with the agreement of the Office for Spatial Planning and the consent of the relevant expert bodies, a shorter, one-phase procedure was determined. I'd also like to mention construction in out-of-town areas. With regard to this issue, the applicant pointed out that it is regarded as a negative phenomenon, which is at issue mainly due to the low density of the settlement, particularly at the outskirts of the cities and in suburban settlements. In addition, it disables rational utility, prevents rational energy use and so on. In spite of this, we believe that the possibility of dispersal should be given in exceptional cases, as the rehabilitation of dispersed construction is not always possible in certain cases. We therefore believe that it is necessary to give the local community the opportunity to assess that, in view of the preservation of the landscape, the construction is more beneficial than if it were not allowed. Dispersed construction has, in certain cases, made it possible to move to more remote areas of our country. Also due to the trend of larger cities, it is necessary to ensure that less populated and remote areas remain populated. The Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia is a document that has long been produced in accordance with the recommendations and guidelines of the international documents of the Spatial Development Strategy, the Habitat Agenda and many international conventions. However, the question arises whether the adoption of the proposal for a spatial development strategy for Slovenia in such a short time frame is useful, as this is a key document on spatial development and all segments should be provided with the possibility of optimal assessment and adding comments. As stated in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the new spatial strategy should be rid of some planned infrastructure facilities, such as some disputed planned power plants, which, of course, would give municipalities sufficient opportunity to participate in the public debate on the proposed proposal for a spatial strategy. On the basis of all that has been said in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will propose that the spatial strategy be a suitable basis for further consideration, of course in the hope that the comments we have made at the first reading will also be able to be included in the project itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u232	Thank you very much. He probably has a word, so Bogdan Barovic should be you, Mr. Jelinčič, on behalf of the Group of Members? [[..]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This programme - as it is called - is a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia is in fact a pre-election campaign programme that Spielberg could also sign. The fact is that it is a rather unconceptive writing, which is full of sound and wise words, words, words, and similar matters. Unfortunately, according to the rules of procedure, we cannot examine all the issues mentioned here in detail, but let us go to at least some. They're talking about harmonious development. What consistent development? Pesticides, insecticides and fertilisers without any restriction are still used. The soil level's dropping - the ministry's closing. Nothing is done, everything is without a concept, and when the guidelines for maintaining architectural recognition, on the other hand, the United List of Social Democrats builds an Islamic centre in Ljubljana or will soon build it, we will get 13 to 14 others after Slovenia. On the other hand, we are witnessing the ban on the construction of the Roman Catholic Church in Velenj, also by the United List of Social Democrats. Where is the preservation of architectural recognition? How about we get a whole bunch of minarets in Slovenia? I don't know. Very strange. As we move forward and talk about the rail network, there is no indication that the ministry would even know what is going on with the fifth and tenth pan-European corridor. It has long been known that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has, in fact, "shut up" almost both corridors. We're still writing something in here about some kind of connection, I don't know what it's all about. Further, when it comes to airports and helipads, it is important to be aware that Slovenia has a very developed airport infrastructure, but we do not know what to do with them, so that the regulation in this area in Croatia, which will not enter Europe now with May 1, is significantly better, significantly more liberal and significantly more environmentally oriented. We're going back to some sedation - I don't know what's going on here. It is about the cycling network, it reminds me of the times when the Greens were still in Parliament and when Leo Sesherko had this as one of the main moves and main alternatives. Cycling trails across Slovenia - additional asphalting of Slovenia's landscape. And then when we talk about the pedestrian network, that's what we say, we're going to asphalt the footpaths. Come on, let's smooth out the infantry and cut down the towers to which we'll hang the cableway that will go to Triglav. Next, we have a whole bunch of nonsense that would be hard to find. There's talk of water supply. They talk about what needs to be done, what we will do, what we will do, what we want to do; and we will do nothing. Gentlemen, this is a pre-election program that's supposed to look nice, but no concrete solution is in here. Not one of them! There is not a single sentence that would say what is the risk of infection or pesticide pollution in Slovenia - not that it threatens us, but it is. Nothing. Speaking of radioactive waste, I don't think it's a problem to know what they're like, how they're divided into low, medium and high-radioactive. It doesn't even say how many we have, where we're supposed to give them, or how. But it is probably already known to all of us that we have already kneeled down and told the Croats, because we will also take away your radioactive waste. Nothing's done! On the other hand, we have ideas and desires, or almost already directed desires, that wind power plants be built on Kras, Vremščica, Cebulovac and Selivac. If Mr Drnovšek promised the Spanish king that the Spanish company would build and install these windmills and that some LDS companies would serve this wonderfully, either by themselves or by making promises to someone else. Not that we will destroy the most beautiful area, one of the most beautiful parts of Slovenia, is called Crassus. Where are the plans for the future development of Crassus? They're gone. And instead of preparing the concept of how to reduce electricity consumption, the ministry is prepared, probably for the benefit of some, to set up new sources. Biodiversity in Slovenia is one of the things we can boast about. But how much longer? Probably not for long. And what Europe envies us, we will soon destroy ourselves. Has anyone at the Ministry done any program on the resolution of the Ljubljana Bar? Nothing! Long and wide, black constructions are built and no one does anything. There is no concept in the construction of buildings in Slovenia. Go take a look at Slovenia from the plane - like a shit nest scattered over a long and porpoise. Where someone has a friend in the congregation to get permission to build there. Horrible and scary. In short, it's sad. It's sad. And such grief, such a fantasy project, in which Mr Spielberg was probably assisted by George Lucas - we certainly will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr Jože Ašić, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! I would say so: thank God that we finally have a spatial plan strategy in Slovenia. For the sake of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u236	Mr. Jelinczych, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u237	For the first time, Mr Jelinčič, in Slovenia alone, we adopt the country's strategy in spirit and on the basis of the requirements of the social, economic and legal system in the Republic of Slovenia. The existing spatial planning documents at national level are still spatial components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1986 to 2000 and the spatial components of the social plan of the Republic of Slovenia from 1986. Although the 1986 Plan Paper has been updated and extended several times, we have never really replaced it with a document that would define the development of Slovenia as a single country; it is said that Slovenia's independent states are in new socio-economic conditions, technological globalisation and Slovenia's entry into European integration. In 2003, we adopted a law on the regulation of space, which stipulates that the spatial development strategy should be adopted before 21 July 2004. We are therefore before the expiry of the deadline when we can adopt this document without a specific assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment or on the environment, in accordance with Directive 2001/42 of the European Union. So, we're going to take it on our own in some way. In 2003, a regulation was adopted on more detailed content, form and method of preparing a spatial development strategy and a strategy preparation programme, of course at the level of the government. The preparation and consideration of the proposal for a spatial strategy included professional and other public meetings, working conferences and presentations. A spatial conference was organised in August 2003 and a public presentation of opinions was organised recently by the Committee on Infrastructure and Environment in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of relevant spatial development, four different possibilities for spatial development of Slovenia were addressed in the context of the sectional work. However, the strategy that we are considering has been identified as a sustainable spatial development strategy by the weightings of the various four strategies. The spatial strategy that we are discussing today sets out the starting points and objectives of spatial development, the design of the spatial development of Slovenia with priorities and orientations to achieve the objectives of spatial development, the development of individual spatial systems with guidelines for development at regional and local level, and measures to implement these. The sustainable spatial development of Slovenia is based on the priorities of equal inclusion of Slovenia in European space, polycentric urban system and regional spatial development, vitally managed cities, coordinated development of wider urban areas related to and coordinated development of the transport and migration network and the construction of economic public infrastructure, vitality and attractiveness of rural areas, strengthening the visibility of quality natural and cultural characteristics of the country, spatial development of areas with specific potential problems. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that the spatial development strategy under consideration raises a number of issues and dilemmas, and requires a number of further clarifications. We are also aware that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also adopt the spatial order of Slovenia on the basis of this strategy, which will lay down the basic rules for the regulation of space at national, regional and local level and will lay down more detailed rules for the entire territory of the country or for its individual parts, meaning that a more specific operational document will be followed. Spatial documents will also be followed at local and regional levels. However, since the spatial development strategy under consideration represents a fundamental spatial act, we must pay particular attention to solutions. At the public presentation of the opinions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, our view was that participation was surprisingly poor, and perhaps the discussions so far in the context of the preparation of the document were sufficient. In our opinion, however, some very quality and concrete contributions have been presented. We propose that the applicant thoroughly examine them and include them in the final draft strategy for second reading or reception. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will also present at today's meeting some specific issues, dilemmas and also some concrete proposals expected to be taken into account by the proposaler in further developing this document. The decree on the strategy of the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the next period, as we are considering today, will be adopted at first reading in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I'll give the word to Aloys Sok as the first debater. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to touch on one of the issues in this supplement, which is that I would like to define [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u240	Dear colleague Sok, I have overlooked that you already have red numbers so I regret to inform you that you no longer have time available. That's why I'm going to give my word to the next debater, Dr. Mihu Brajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič said earlier that this document is an electoral programme of the Liberal Democracy. Well, I'm adding, if that's true, then it's good for the opposition. For the Liberal Democracy has taken 12 years to produce a document that is very extensive, very dense, intransparency and I doubt that it will contribute to the relevant spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a strategy can also be seen as very general, while it sets 38 targets in 12 groups, but these objectives are very loose, they are not defined enough. And because there's been a difference in fashion lately, how do I say, talk, say, in Islam, let me add one more. The Koran says, "If you don't know where you're going, every path is good enough." And if I'm reading this strategy - I don't know how this thought came to me somehow. Now, it is true that this is a roofed spatial document, on which space acts will also be adopted, everyone else. However, the very definition of spatial development is so wide that it is impossible to imagine in what direction the spatial development of an area will take place, because there are simply no clear objectives that we want to achieve through this strategy. If I only give a concrete example, on page 33, I quote: "The construction of buildings for tourist-recreational purposes outside the settlement areas is possible if the natural conditions allow the conduct of activities or spatial arrangements are spatially and formally consistent with the existing use of the dominants there, topographical position and vedutas." If you take into account everything that's written here, then building objects for tourist-recreational purposes is not impossible, I'm not saying that, but extremely difficult. And if Slovenia has put tourism in its development programmes as one of the important, perhaps even priority, economic activities in the future, then such a definition works in the opposite direction. This definition, which I have just read, is an example from that part of the strategy that talks about tourist settlements, where there is no specific focus on tourism, but we know that this orientation is also important because of the EU accession and of course the resources expected from many titles. Perhaps it would be good if the minister or the coworkers could explain how this definition is now going along with, say, some other paragraph. For example, it says: "The strategy defines a tourist resort as a settlement area with developed tourist infrastructure and other content that is important for the created tourist offers." How does the previous definition go along with this, for example, definition and tourism infrastructure? In this material, if I go - of course, it is impossible now that, clearly, all these individual findings that I found in this material, I mention, because there is simply not enough time for this, I regret that it is. But if I go side by side and not side, then I have to, say, stop in water supply and decommissioning and clean up waste and parachute water, where in the third point on page 53 you are talking about water protection areas, you are mentioning agricultural areas where water resources are at risk, it introduces measures of active protection and artificial water enrichment. At the thought of mipride the municipality of Ig, which has quite a large agricultural area, under which of course is drinking water, which also provides Ljubljana. Farmers who own these agricultural areas are in an unequal position with other farmers because they cannot use all those funds that other farmers can use and are therefore economically disadvantaged in their crops. So, generally - I'm just giving an example - but generally my observation is that where we require some high standards of landscape protection - which, of course, I agree with - or water supply regimes, etc., on the other hand, we should also provide some compensation to those who are affected by these standards and would therefore be entitled to compensation, if I may say so, with those who are not under these heavier water protection or other regimes - that they would not be particularly burdened now or any other. Then, say, waste. I have asked the Minister several times about guidance in waste management, and this chapter is devoted to this part and a particularly interesting formulation, and I quote: 'Final waste disposal is provided in a spatially rational manner, taking into account environmental protection requirements and the social variability of the location'. Now I'm interested in this "social acceptance of the location." What's that? It is important to be aware that it is not enough to provide guidance or to place waste management centres in space, and it is also important to repair landfills that are quite significant in Slovenia. In addition, from the material prepared by the Ministry to move from 51 landfills to 17 landfills, and also from the report on the state of the environment for 2002, it was not clear, nor from the reply of the Minister of the Environment, which I have set out to him, how it will or how it will be - because it seems that it will solve the problem of landfills in the future. The Ministry is expected to draw up a plan of action for those landfills that will not stop and will not forward the programme within the prescribed time limit, with the environmental report unclear what these measures will be. From this spatial development strategy of Slovenia in the Waste Management chapter, it is not possible to read what the targets will be in the area of landfill rehabilitation - because this is important not from a purely environmental point of view, but also from a spatial point of view. And, of course, it is also important how local communities will solve this problem. It seems to me that, given that there are no concrete measures in the environmental report and that the strategy does not show how landfill rehabilitation will take place and the installation of new waste management centres or space thermal treatment facilities, the strategy offers nothing new. Let me add to this that only 8 landfills meet the required requirements from all landfills, i.e. those 51 operating. 10, I believe, is gradually approaching, the current legislation still allows the operation and expansion of landfills at various risk locations by the end of 2008. Of course, the strategy does not give these issues adequate attention. I would then like to draw attention to page 59 and the General Guidelines for the Preservation of the Recognition of Landscape Areas. That's what I learned about what the term "social public infrastructure" means, as they say. It is said to include sports facilities. But generally speaking, this document does not provide the sports facilities with the necessary attention. Our cities are no longer famous for some very large and beautiful green areas, and we are increasingly limiting and building them. And even in the vicinity of cities, we do not build systematic facilities that could serve young people and, of course, all others to spend their free time. If we are already setting up a strategy, I think it would be appropriate to say specifically that Slovenia, as a tourist country, is developing or wants to develop at least sports facilities, because this will direct young people to healthy activities, they will have places to go and actively participate, and this is important for everyone else. Furthermore, in areas where cultivation would result in the loss of a large part of the recognised cultural components of the landscape, agricultural use is encouraged. I think it's too narrow. Why the agricultural use? I think we need to think about what we need. For it is not said that everywhere we speak of the land, it is possible to speak of the agricultural use. For it can be a variety of other activities that can be just as important if not more important. On the 78th page, where point 22 is intended for economic development, which includes the development of tourism, I can again see that this text is full of some commonly-known words, far from being more targeted than being appropriate for the strategy. The strategy is the way to the goal. And if we're there on page 9, or if you've written some goals or whatever, you would now expect that in the strategy this path to the goal will somehow be routed, but it's not happening. If I may say so also with regard to regional development, the second text, which is numbered new, states on page 20: "In the area of regional development, the state of regional development agencies" - it seems about technical regions - "for the promotion of technological modernisation and the restructuring of production." In crisis regions, occasional State interventions are taking place" - and so on. Well, that really makes me wonder what that is. I have tried to understand this, I have read this chapter in full and I do not know whether it is now developing to form new bodies, new institutions, new agencies, new state authorities or how it is. Especially since we already have them on the ground or in the space - agencies, which are, well, also of a spatial nature. In short, there's a whole species here now that might even mention such cases, but I think that's quite enough. Maybe I'd like to point out the terminology. You yourself specify in the special middle part of the dictionary, the interpretation of terms - there 82nd, 83rd page and so on, but I warn you, do not hold on to the terms that you explain yourself on pages 82 and 83. In this way, we should be careful to use the concepts you define consistently. But there are flowers like that, if I may, let's say, warn you. For example, "in urban settlements, adequate supply of functional and technologically different infrastructure areas is provided for economic activities, industry, construction, manufacturing and other forms of entrepreneurship." This is indeed one such Latvian, and I ask you to align it with the valid terms we know in the economy, in sociology, in the technique and which you are actually right here. In short, if I finish now. This document, which requires a lot of time for a person to read it quickly, even though it is being examined, requires a lot of additional work, in my opinion. I agree that this is a very important document that this is one of the key documents for the development of the Slovenian state and would therefore deserve more time, more in-depth analysis and more in-depth discussion than we can afford at a limited time. As it is now, I fear that this strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia is not the way to the goal that the strategy should be, but rather the way from the goal. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Only Bevk gets the word for his discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The creation and consideration of the national energy programme and the spatial development strategies of Slovenia have also justified the debate on the unacceptable construction of a large accumulating hydroelectric power plant on the Idrijca River. The project for the construction of HE Trebush was definitively lost from the country's spatial plan when the National Assembly adopted my amendment in 1999 to delete this facility. On the basis of the then adopted decision amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the design of the protection of the natural heritage is already protected and to provide for the intended area of natural heritage, the Idrijca River as a proposal for a natural monument is an integral part of the design of the protection of natural heritage, which means that it is a mandatory republic's starting point for the conservation of nature. I have to point out in particular that I am also surprised by the rumors and the fact that the municipality of Tolmin, by mistake, received mandatory guidelines for the preparation of a spatial plan in which it is intended to reserve the space for HE Kuk as one of the versions of Trebush's mega-Romanian hydropower plant. Otherwise, more than a year ago, similar rumors and press contributions were excited by the public when their national energy programme, including HE Kuk, was published on the website of the Slovenian Engineering Society. After studying the material, I found that in one of the informal, working drafts of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia in August 2003, this document was also transmitted to the Idrian municipality, mentioned by HE Kuk. The text, which is no longer available in the official and published proposal, reads: "There is also provision for the accumulation power plant HE Kuk on Idrijaka, which would be very useful for the operation of the electricity system. The largest denive of water in the pool would be 42 meters and the accumulation of 162 million cubic metres of useful volume. With the installed flow of 170 cubic metres per second, the power plant would have given the power of 133 megawatts and produced on average 175 gigawatt hours of high-end electricity per year. However, the facility still needs to be studied. There are possible variants with multiple cascades, which would be more environmentally acceptable." End of story. This is no longer in the strategy. Both documents, including the national energy programme, state that electricity production is primarily maintained in existing hydropower plants in Drava, Savi and Soča. The construction of new plants is planned on Sava, the use of the upper part of Mura is studied and the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Drava, Savi and Soča can be verified in order to provide top energy. There is no mention of Idrika, but the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plant placed Idrico in the second priority class with the start of the construction in 2010. In the strategy, we also have a chapter on the quality of landscape and nature conservation and our country's obligations arising from the directives of the European Union under the Natura 2000 project. The European Union has adopted two directives on the conservation of birds and the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna. It is a project to establish a European ecological network Natura 2000. The European Environment Programme clearly identifies as a basic objective in the area of nature conservation and restoration of the functions of natural systems and the cessation of loss of biodiversity. Slovenia, as a candidate for entry, has already done much of the EU acquis with the adoption of the Nature Conservation Act and the Natura 2000 area will be adopted at government level on the basis of Article 33, which provides for specific protection zones. The Republic of Slovenia must submit this proposal to the European Commission before 1 May 2004. The Idrijca River is the habitat of endangered fish species in the list of European Directives, and these are owl trout, sea breeches, humpbacks and crickets and are highly linked to liquid waters. The technical bases for the classification of the Idrijca river area within the Natura 2000 framework have already been developed. For reasons of possible non-listing, our country should defend itself before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and the fines are extremely high for these offences. The energy use of the Idrijca River would also destroy and alter the hydrological characteristics of the watercourse and destroy its geomorphological forms. The status of the natural value of State importance granted by the State to the Idrijci River is, in my view, also a comparative advantage in the light of the near entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. The Sochi Bridge lens and the Idrijco River should not be left to the energy lobby. The municipalities of Idrija, Cerkno and Tolmin must therefore, together with State aid, develop the long-term development of this valley as soon as possible, not in part, but for all three congregations together. The energy use of Idrica is not among my priorities, I think it is mainly the development of tourism, as an economic sector offering extremely broad opportunities for development. This is why it is the Ministry's intention to grant a concession for energy exploitation to a domestic concessionaire before 1 May 2004 in order to avoid a possible international tender; for the first time, premature, for the second time - contrary to European directives, for the third time - contrary to the state spatial plans in force and for the fourth time - contrary to the strategy that we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given the time allowed to me, allow me to touch the two chapters of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. Chapter 7.2.5: Waste management. I warn colleagues and colleagues who are interested, on page 159 and on the fourth and fifth paragraphs where it speaks - the strategy - on the management of municipal waste at the level of regional and inter-regional centres and the fifth paragraph on the meaningful role of the State in the integration of municipalities. Content-added text. Truth: the Trbovlje municipality was among the first, giving 240 million for the regional deposit, committed itself to imprison immediately - its landfill. And the state has pledged to co-finance the closure in the '60s or '70s, I don't know exactly, for sure. However, there were some congregations that cared little about what would happen to their waste. They said: we don't give money for regional arrangements, we'll have what we have. What happened? After the last letter, the congregation of Trbovlje, because it was ready, willing to do and also did what it could, gave 240 million to open the regional dump, made a programme to close it within six months, was determined not to receive 60 and 70% of the state funds, but only 20. Only 20%. Because you're good, you'll do it, you'll only get 20%, the other congregations that said: we're not gonna do anything, we're gonna wait, we're gonna do it our way - but they got a reward from the country and 80% of the funding of the country! Thank you so much for such a program and for such a reality! The second thing I'm going to mention is, I hope I can make it work. The program is clearly written on page 152 - I speak for Zasavje again. "If it turns out that the extension of the production of brown coal in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine will have positive effects up to and including 2009" - I am also talking about the thermal power plant - "it will be possible to burn domestic coal after 2007 which will be produced in the blend with imported." That's what I'm for. I already warned you yesterday on the national programme that we never close and there is nothing we have. However, these data, which are ideal, are contrary to data from yesterday's national energy programme. The worst part is that we got a direct fact from the Ministry of Finance a few days ago, calling for the Trbovlje mine to close 1.1.2007 - peak, call, end. Non-compliance of national programmes and laws, respected colleagues and colleagues [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - it's not valid. [[...]] Please, Minister, I know that it is difficult to prepare such a strategy, but it is embarrassing to read one and the same content and things that are, of course, distinct in content, at three different ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u247	I agree with all those who stress how important the document is in Parliament's reception. In particular, all those who have been involved in spatial planning in the previous regime as well as in Slovenia alone, and in particular in all the problems faced by municipal'spaces', in particular in the procedures for issuing different permits in cases where spatial acts have not adequately defined certain areas, may be aware of this. That is why it shows that much attention is actually being paid to this topic. In my opinion, the spatial development strategy of Slovenia is in some way the mother of all the strategies that we have adopted so far and which we will adopt, such a strategy on the national energy development programme that we had yesterday, or for motorways, or for state roads, or for railways, or for the protection of natural and cultural heritage, or just culture; in short, all of this is in some way, this document is kind of a cover document for all other users of space. That is why, of course, in this debate, I would like to draw attention to some, in my view, shortcomings or perhaps even things that are not well defined. The strategy under consideration determines that in Slovenia we will develop border areas, both along the Slovenian border and cross-border integrations. However, I have a feeling that I live at a border that is not so old that in Slovenia we still see a more western and northern border than the south-eastern border, which will become a short European border and perhaps in a year, two years also the Schengen border with the Schengen regime. From this document, I do not really see any special measures for the entire area of the Slovenian-Croatian border, which is very significant, except perhaps the coastal work, are entirely areas with development problems or - if I say in an old terminology - less developed areas of Slovenia. For example, if we look at the map of the development of the economic public infrastructure, the development of the transport system, then we can see what the road cross looks like in Slovenia, how the highways will go, how the railway will go. We can also note, of course, that almost the entire border is surrounded by roads of national importance. But that, for example, the connection that exists today, of course, has always existed and means from, say, Posavia areas the fastest link to Ptuj to Murska Sobota, this is the road Brežice-Rogaska Slatina-Ptuj-Murska Sobota, if I look at it naturally, is not at all defined as a road of national importance. Perhaps this is the remainder of the old spatial plan when these areas were intended to connect with Murska Sobota to connect to the Pirin highway across Croatia. In Slovenia alone, however, we must protect national interest on our side of the state border! And I don't think that any new road is needed here, but the purpose of the road, which is the fastest link from New City today, until there is a fast road to Celje, is the fastest link from New City to Mursko Sobota, which is not even defined as a road of national importance. On the other hand, there is about a similar road, via Trenta, of course, a road of national importance. And that is why I am talking about that I think we are still not fully aware, that we also have a southern border that will become the future Schengen border. The development directions that are planned in Slovenia, for example, in the direction of Koper-Ljubljana-Maribor - there is a lack of development direction from Jesenic to Brežic. Ljubljana is in the middle in both cases. This has also been pointed out by some discussers to the public presentation of their opinions. Then I would like to draw attention to some of the specific problems we have in Posavje and remain unresolved after this strategy. This is a permanent landfill of all types of nuclear waste. It's probably a topic that's not very friendly, that no one wants to go, who doesn't want to, at least alternatively identify possible locations, but we do know that we have a nuke, we know that we have all the waste from the time of the operation of a nuclear power plant in Krk at the location of a nuclear plant, and we don't have a defined area in the strategy where these wastes are; we know that we also have an international agreement, and until when these waste can be stored at the site itself. The area of defence facilities is planned in this strategy about as it was at the time we had JLA. We know we have them, but they can't be drawn. But that's not good. At least in some cases it's not good. In the area of the Breži municipality we have a former Yugoslav army airport, which is now partly used by the Slovenian army, partly not officially used, the entire area we have in Brežica in this way are over 500 hectares and their destination is not in fact defined. Once again, I would like to draw attention to another matter that concerns the southern border. The Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia was once a turbulent topic in this Parliament. Today we know that it is good that it is accepted, but that it is still too narrow for the border inhabitants of both countries to have a slightly easier life in the expected circumstances. The border municipalities from Kolpa to Krka, to Bizellski, I believe, are also preparing for the preparation of programmes of so-called cross-border tourist zones, in accordance with this agreement. Nor is it mentioned in the area of tourism that we have such an international agreement signed and that the entire border could be a tourist zone, of course in cooperation with the neighbouring country. I think it's very important! Well, in the field of tourism, I found another fantastic flower that can lift blood in Krske and Brežice. I didn't know the Brežice were in the vicinity of Krskov until now. As a tourist destination it is stated that one of the important tourist destinations is Krško, the surroundings of Krske with Brežice, Mokricati and thermals. I mean, really good Kostanjavica isn't mentioned! [[...]] In short, it's a very interesting thing. This is in the rapporteur, I'll say I'll be exact, 80/1, on page 183, almost on top. It's a little bit of a joke, and it's also very real, because if there's no correction, we're going to have to make an amendment. I would also like to pause a little as a question, at Natura 2000, but we have mentioned it several times today. We know that this document is a directive of the European Union, tomorrow we will adopt amendments to the Nature Conservation Act, where we will also legitimize this fact that we must have a programme. I would like to ask to what extent this will also be the implementation of Natura 2000 restrictions in development for certain areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, I am concerned today that this will primarily be a "choke" for local planners, because I am sure that we will know about the country that important national projects will somehow be brought into line with this directive, but that local development programmes will be very burdened by provisions that we will have to comply with. I think it would be good if we, in some way, put in place the principle in this planning that we should not be more brussels than Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. The municipalities, which, with expectations and also with some impatience, we expect the actual adoption of the spatial development strategy, because it is essentially this first green light, that we actually begin to produce the spatial order of the municipalities and the spatial development strategies of the municipalities or the old municipal act. Of course, we are, in fact, somewhat in a dilemma or with many needs, even after partial changes to the spatial plan, to initiate procedures or not, given that we are quite far in the process of adopting this state strategy. I think that this strategy is also critical, although on the one hand there is a need for rapid adoption. I will also not repeat my concerns already raised by my fellow Member, Tanka, about the fact that this strategy should somehow be the synthesis of the strategic documents of individual statistical regions, as regards the economic, spatial and other developments already made by the development regions in accordance with legislation. On the one hand, I am pleased that the Minister or his services have listened to, I am speaking to the higher-a-vis region of Posavje and our municipality of Brežice, the comments we have made. I would also say that the strategy has changed very, very much in a few months - I have a document here from May or January this year, and I wanted to discuss on this basis, which I have been reminded is that the text has already been completely amended in the Rapporteur and has been taken into account, which is also worth stressing. I'm going to focus on three important sets, and I'm going to wait for the distinguished minister to listen to me, because I think it's very important what I want to say. For the first time, something that we have done a lot in this House, and I see that there is no place in the strategy or that the Minister has written down what we do not want to write down under point 2.5.1. - Radioactive data, in the first paragraph, states that the permanent disposal of low and medium radioactive waste shall be provided in the country area prior to the expiry of the life-cycle of the NEC, while the permanent landfill of highly radioactive waste, etc. [[...]] As if we had not adopted two laws to this Parliament saying that the location of the landfill must be approved by 2008 and the landfill built by 2013. But we all know that the lifespan of the Krka nuclear power plant is significantly longer. In short, Minister, I ask that these indications regarding the location of landfills of radioactive waste be recorded in accordance with the legislation adopted. I think this must be important before the end of life. I do not know and ask you for arguments why it has been written down that, for example, this is only in the country's area, why in some way the possibility of exporting these wastes is also excluded either to Croatia or elsewhere. This is the first key point, because at the time of the adoption or ratification of the interstate treaty on issues related to the Krška nuclear power plant, there was so much discussion on this topic that I am surprised that this is in the text that this remained in the text despite everything. I have a very important comment at point 2.1.4. - Airport and helioport. I would like to inform the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy or the Minister and the competent services that the contract between the Slovenian military, the Ministry of Defence and the public economic institution of the Cerklje Airport on the civilian use of the airport of Cerklje is signed. The Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces agrees that in the first phase, as long as the equipment of the military airport in the Churches is still such as and does not conform to certain standards that only the activities of civil aviation education and sport can be carried out at this airport, as well as other civil aviation activities of the transport of passengers and goods. We have documents on this and, of course, these documents are also available to the Ministry. Therefore, I ask that Brežice Krško and Sevnica continue to define the airport, or some part of Brežice Krško and Sevnica, that the possibility of developing a public helioport airport for international transport of lower categories or higher categories is allowed, but for international transport. I would not like to stress here the importance of the borders of this institution and thus the national centre and functional region due to the proximity of Zagreb and due to the proximity of two important transport corridors, namely the railway and road corridor. Of course, due to the future Schengen border and the proximity of these transport corridors and, of course, the two-million-dollar hinterland of Croatia, it offers such an airport where infrastructure is built, even in the civil sphere a very large perspective. I think that this would be true in the strategy to foresee, define and, of course, allow this economic activity at this point for future development, which will certainly come from the logic of capital and economic interests. In this respect, I would also like to highlight point 2.1.7 - Transport terminals. I think that this point identifies transport terminals at international level, which are to be developed only in Cyprus, Ljubljana and Maribor, transport terminals of national importance and transport terminals of regional transport, where transport hubs are also identified in Brežice. Once again, somestje Brežic, Krske and Sevnice are strategically located and given the future Schengen border on the transport logistically very interesting location of the future Schengen border between the European Community and, of course, the future Schengen borders and borders between the European Community and other countries. Therefore, of course, there is already a great interest after the establishment of appropriate logistical, transport and other support in this part, near the border. I am afraid, of course, that if this is not defined as a potential link in Brežica, this is said at international level or at least at national level, it would be bad for the further development of these economic activities in this part. I think that the economic development strategy for some parts of Slovenia, which have been put in place to establish a new border of twenty-five with other countries, also through the spatial development strategy, must provide a new future. As my colleague Ašič has already said, this strategy does not offer this new opportunity at the future border. Therefore, I have mentioned at least two cases concerning terminals and as far as the airport is concerned, that they are taken into account in the further preparation of this because I think there are all logical conditions for the matter to develop in this direction. I'm also very surprised by the map on page 48 of the rapporteur, or I don't mind if a public airport for international air traffic is being developed in New Town, I'm just asking you where. That's defined here. I don't mind, but only we in the Churches of Krk have built an airport with all the infrastructure, and it is not defined here to develop this airport in this direction, with the military agreeing. The military agrees to use this airport for civilian purposes. Therefore, I ask you once again to define this in the strategy and thus open up a possible new future for these less developed work or work with development needs or whatever we call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Chapter 2 - Design of the spatial development of Slovenia with priorities and orientations to achieve the objectives of the spatial development of Slovenia in point 5, Related and coordinated development of the transport and migration network and the construction of the economic infrastructure, in addition to the two transport corridors, the third transport development axis, which will connect the regional centres of Austria, Slovenia and Croatia and allow the linking of freight and passenger road transport of all regions to the main transport route of Europe, is also indicated. I propose that the course of this transport link be defined more clearly already in this chapter, as the text later on page 44 also states, with a small correction, namely: the road link takes place from the Austrian border across, or along Slovenia Gradc and Velenj to the highway cross and then from Celje to the New City and Metlika to Karlovac. I am also satisfied with the forecast of updating and, where necessary, the upgrading of existing railway infrastructure. This part also provides for a railway connection from Celje to Dravograd, which was once in existence, and for reasons which are not understandable to me at Velenje-Dravograd. I also believe that the resolution on the national energy programme and today's proposal for a decree should be substantively harmonised. I'm talking about energy. The National Energy Programme sets out the possibility of replacing TES 1-3 thermal blocks, which will be shut down in 2008. However, the spatial development strategy of Slovenia for Block 1-3, which will stop between 2008 and 2010, does not provide for compensation. Block 4, which will cease to operate around 2020, would be replaced by a new block, with the power of a 350-megawatt circus, but no decision has yet been taken on energy, gas or one of the modern coal technologies. The construction of new coal-fired thermal power plants with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia under consideration is not envisaged. I also have a comment on a chapter that defines our relationship to water use, where it is assumed that for recreation, in accordance with spatial possibilities and limitations, there are also some rivers called Bohinjsko, Blejsko, Cerknica Lake and Lakes, which have been caused by pests. Given the size of the lakes in the Shaleska Valley, I estimate that they should be included by name in this proposed text. I myself, like many others before me, point out that the number of regions, regardless of what we call individual resolutions or laws, will need to be unified. The proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia is therefore prepared. I believe that the first step can be taken today, but the text will need to be finalized thoroughly by the end of adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd just like to do a little bit of controversy with you or with your performance, Mr. Chairman. I certainly do not think that the strategy is a particularly eminent political issue or rivalry, and that is more a question, I would say when the profession strikes. Although these debates, of course, also receive some political connotation, I must say that in some parts we are as critical as the opposition to these documents. Although I take this strategy as some starting point, which is largely full, I would say, some big and beautiful words, but it also has some concrete, in particular global starting points. And that's what she is. This strategy follows a spatial order according to the law to be adopted by the government, and in fact in this House I doubt that we will have a debate. Then there will be concrete solutions. At this point, I would say that I could also ask a few questions to the Minister, including a vis-a-vis of another document coming into the government procedure, by law that we will adopt. It's Natura 2000. There are certain mandatory starting points and should be adopted in a relatively short time. I ask if Natura 2000 is synchronized with this strategy. Above all, I ask whether we will see this Natura 2000 and even more or if Natura 2000 will see interest. This document has been discussed for a long time. There's some fear that he'll be accepted. And then some big reptile will come out when we figure out what's protected and what's not protected. That is why I think, Mr Minister, that we should pay quite a lot of attention to this problem. I would like to ask you to comment on this, whether you intend to open this document slightly more to the public or not, because I think that one thing in this Nature will be in line with Europe, as we say, and concrete for our people, although this document has not yet been seen by the general public. But I understand that by procedure this will be a government document, but I think we should hurt on what to say. I have a further question, Mr Minister, we have plotted areas, waste management areas where we have divided regions. In individual regions, we have different centres of national importance, as well as lower importance, and have already sparked some heated discussions on the location of individual regional or regional landfills. I ask the Minister how we can resolve this square circle, if, however, in some area in no way, I would say, in a relatively long time, there will be no agreement necessary to place the location of an individual area or regional landfill. Much has been said about individual connections, either traffic, or some others. I'll mention some. When we are talking about airports, which was also a talk and I do not understand certain things here, but in particular I do not appreciate that the strategy was not made up of a higher-a-vis existing state and a higher-a-vis fact that we will literally be in very short time, in a good month in Europe, and that we must build these communications also taking into account that we are going somewhere and from somewhere to this Slovenia, not just to connect Slovenia. And that we also have with our borders some population of people who can benefit from our infrastructure and, of course, vice versa. This is how I argue with placement, so if we exclude the definition of international airports, then we have the second category of Novo Gorica and Novo Mesto, where we have a starting point so that the airport can develop there also for international lower-ranking traffic. Then we have been defined as the Brežice military airport, and then, according to my behaviour, there are more than 20 airports in Slovenia, which are mostly sporty, but also some in function and quite well developed, so now I wonder whether these airports will be able to operate international traffic, but of course not by jumbo to eat with airbuses I understand this, but these few people bring in sports planes or business planes and higher-a-vis that, if I speak from my case, is one diction impossible. In my case, let's say we have an airport in Divača, which is already very old, 10 kilometers from Trieste, which will be practically borderless tomorrow. However, this airport is not defined for this possibility to fly in, but we define some other airports that are significantly more remote, even the existing airport for this city is three times as far away as this is concerned. Why don't we take this opportunity? And there are some other cases like this. I certainly think we need to fix this and also allow other airports, Lesce, Slovenj Gradec, Murska Sobota to take advantage of this advantage and opportunity. I would also point out that we have a very large area in the coastal-internal area, where we do not have any major urban regional centres located, and it would also suggest that we should consider this because we have a large part of the Western border very empty. However, I would like to say something about the very definition of the starting points for the protection of the natural landscape. We have heard quite a lot about this today. I have the feeling that in our country we have two, above all, antagonistic positions which are understood by two specific groups. We could simplify and say it's some kind of conflict of interest: urban and rural. I think it's sad that they're pretty exclusive on both sides. We have people living in a very rural area, in a beautiful nature, and they dream of how they're going to develop as quickly as possible, watching the world on television, the big centers, and they want to get close to it as soon as possible. On the other hand, they do not have the option or basic infrastructure, so they may not be sensitive enough to put certain things into space and preserve nature, so they may even seem aggressive in their activities. On the other hand, we have a population living in the 'thirteenth', of course under the headings, the floor of the urban center in Ljubljana somewhere, and nostalgic dreams of beautiful nature. And he sees in another group undisputedly always some destroyer of natural cohesion and returns nostalgically to nature, but in fact in nature very little resides or never, more little than never. On one side of the world’s desire to watch it on television, on the other hand, the Slovenians want us to come to the cities more or less from the land to return to those beautiful forests, with beasts and flowers and red caps, and feed the sheep, and I don’t know what. And they're both pretty aggressive and they're shutting down. And one had no sense of nature, ignored it several times, and the other had no sense of the needs of those people who lived in this nature and also had real needs and desires. And it would be good if those views got a little closer. Mr Jelinčič also made nostalgic mention of what will happen to the beautiful nature of Crassus by building these windmills. To understand each other, I, too, have very serious concerns about the location of these windmills. But on the other hand, I'm worried because we're watching some Crassus we've got in our heads, and he's gone, and he's already 70% infected. And here no one does anything except speak and tell how beautiful it is in nature and then everything that disappears out of it, and usually the one who tells the fairy tales how beautiful it is out there disappears. Then there's nothing else. It would be good for these polys to be a little balanced, to be a little sober on both sides, and to do one acceptable thing. Otherwise, we have a solution, we can put everyone in one city, or a few cities, and they'll be a little in town when they get tired, but they'll go a little natural. There will be very few who will remain in nature and those who will always be in the city. Otherwise, the way of life is already so ready that we can live in several locations. But it's not the right solution, and it's not the solution to the strategy, and in the end, it's not the solution to polycentric development. In the context of this, Mr Minister, I also ask you the following questions. In protecting the natural landscape, we have concluded that we now have 5.9% of the territory of Slovenia legally protected, but we predict that more than 30% of the area should be protected. I wonder, for the first time, how European countries have average, comparable. Are there many European countries with such a high level of protection or higher, and what are they? That's one thing. In the context of Natura 2000, I ask whether this is also consistent with Natura 2000. Of course, I'm also setting one dilemma for such a high degree. Slovenia is a country with two million inhabitants. 20,000 square kilometres, with an ideal European population, nearly 100 inhabitants per square kilometer and a large number of settlements per square kilometer. We also have countries that are larger, but have a more concentrated population in one or more centres, but we have a very proportionally dispersed population. And it is very difficult for me to imagine that, in the case of such a dispersed, proportionate housing of the country, we can afford such a high level of protection without having to crash into the different interests of the urban environment and brought by an urban environment that is not urban. Therefore, I would ask you in good faith, Mr Minister, if you would answer these questions. I expect, however, that these dilemmas, as well as some of the evident anomalies that are in this strategy, will also be eliminated until the second reading after the main reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary with his team. Fellow Members and fellow Members. As has already been said today, the spatial development strategy is an extremely important document. I am pleased that this document has, since the first time we have seen it, experienced some corrections so far that have, in some ways, mitigated some of the things that have been particularly disturbing to me. Nevertheless, I would say that in at least one chapter it is still internally contradictory. Above all, I want to talk about population policy. Why is it internally contradictory? On the one hand, we have well-written measures to promote the prevention of emptying of space, and on the other hand a series of measures to prevent construction in this area. And in this way, in the resolution, in the analysis, the situation is very qualitatively analysed. It is noted that the rural areas are empty, mainly hilly and secluded areas, and areas are cleared at the future Schengen border. In 2020, only one quarter of the population and one quarter of the territory of the three quarters of the population were expected to be in Slovenia on three quarters of the territory. In view of this analysis of the situation, one would expect the strategy to propose measures that will at least mitigate, if they do not already prevent and stop evictions from these areas. However, I believe that the objectives of the resettlement strategy are not so and that it is quite the opposite. If, of course, we are looking at this strategy together with the already adopted ZUREP and the construction law, the practically dispersed construction, which is an autochthonous building, is virtually impossible in much of Slovenia's territory. But the reasons are communal. If I quote, 'dispersed settlement, a large number of settlements and topographical details have a strong impact on the scale and structure of municipal infrastructure'. This is said to be an assessment of this move only from the point of view of environmental burden and municipal infrastructure. I believe that the problem is multi-layered and that it should be dealt with interdisciplinaryly. There are other aspects that are extremely important. Above all, I would say that it is an extremely important situation on the future Schengen border, as has already been said today. I am afraid that such an adopted resettlement strategy will further accelerate the festivities of already demographically threatened areas, especially at this southern border, which we stress so much. Slovenia is a small country, I wonder if from a national security point of view we can afford to celebrate the land at the future Schengen border. What does that mean? Are we also protecting Slovenia's national interest in this strategy? I'm afraid not, or if so, not enough. The assumption that three quarters of the Slovenian population will live on one quarter of the Slovenian territory, I therefore wonder why it is necessary to prevent so intensely scattered construction, which is indigenous to a large part of Slovenian territory and against which we protect this territory. Who will build it if we practically find out that there are no people who want to live there? Perhaps it would be good if, in the strategy, it were not only to say, "sanimation of dispersed construction is also necessary from the point of view of protecting cultural landscapes and urban values", I would reverse this sentence and write: "The preservation of the settlement of the landscape is also necessary from the point of view of protecting cultural landscapes and urban values." For this reason, as I have pointed out earlier, I believe that the strategy, in the form we now have before us, has already been significantly improved, but it is not yet an optimistic hope that the further degradation of the demographicly threatened areas on the basis of this strategy will not be reduced or prevented and, therefore, I am skeptical about this strategy in this respect. In other parts, however, the strategy is, in my opinion, well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your word. First, as many debaters have pointed out before me, I would point out that we have a very principled document before us. Parliament has virtually no decision on anything, except that it adopts these two rapporteurs, everything that is implementing, remains in the hands of the government, and the government is making a sovereign decision on all of this. I would like to read from this extensive material one paragraph on page 113, which is explained exactly as follows: "In the area of regional development there is the formation of regions or regions with tax autonomy, a solid partner for interregional cooperation at European level. Regional differences are also shrinking due to the promotion of cross-regional and cross-border cooperation with neighbouring regions. Historical regions that no longer have a potential for life are being abandoned as a result of the developmental inertia of the early Middle Ages. Local and regional information networks are being developed to promote the development of virtual local democracy. Then it goes on to write: "The intended option of sustainable development is undoubtedly fundamental to the promotion of a varied, quality and full life in every place and region". I want to know that this is probably a chosen option, but this is a variant D that advocates or defines sustainable spatial development, and I want to know what it actually means to develop virtual local democracy. What does the proposer mean by this concept? This is one of the things I'd like to know more precisely. The next thing, which is also in this variant, is about sustainable spatial development, it is written that concentrations will happen. It is said that we can no longer talk about sustainable development or even spatial development, but there is something else behind it. This is said to be the case, according to the explanatory statement, in this most optimal variant for Slovenia, there will be concentrations, that is, congestion, urban settlements, a settlement along the highway. All of this local, regional population will simply move to these propulsive areas, to these regional and also to the centres that are built along the highways. This is very problematic for me, because at least in this chosen strategy we should define a better way. The border areas, which have already been highlighted, are being emptied. From history, we all know what happened wherever the border was not settled or where the border was not defended. I don't think that border insurance is possible with a couple of cops or a couple of ten cops. Only those who live there can protect and control this area. Only these people know who the resident is and who the immigrant is. Only you know, and that's very good, because they also manage this space because they live there, they process, they regulate the forest and the field, what's actually going on in this area. And we have set up a concept that will, first from these peripheral, very border parts, and later from others, suck up practically all the population. And there's a clear space, an empty space. A place where only great beasts will meet. I understand the interests of capital. That's what you say, capital just wants to go where it's the easiest and fastest to turn, where it's the most within reach of everything it needs. However, I also understand the interests of the State, which is said to preserve the inhabited area, in order to preserve the countryside and the country should take measures, that is to say with incentives for conservation and also with incentives for the recuperation of the abandoned or degraded area, in order to revive this area, either for housing or for business purposes. I am also not sure that this strategy, which you have worked on here, will reduce the differences between the regions. I do not think that this claim is true, because we also now have a series of measures, a type of mechanisms, a law and a fund that allows funds to be drawn for such areas, but in this part something special has not moved and the differences between regions are even increasing. However, by what you have put in place under the term'sustainable regional development', I hope to say that they will significantly increase the differences within the regions. Because there will be concentrations of the population in some larger centres, in some larger settlements, but it will remain virtually completely dead. I think that this way it will not be possible to produce the variant that you have foreseen here as basic. I mentioned earlier in the debate that I see one of the important measures of state investment in local areas for various institutional forms, that is to say various homes for older people, homes for disabled people, so that with good, quality jobs, with a relatively appropriate amount of jobs, they would keep the population with safe salaries in these areas. They would detain education, retain intelligence and at the same time allow conditions for the development of other activities that would otherwise never have them, because there will be no conditions. Here I would just add that this current policy is completely different in this area, because not long ago we have adopted certain laws that have led institutions that have been in such smaller local areas, in terms of streamlining the state administration, to close and move to larger centres. In short, all that the country is supposed to contribute to coherent regional development and access to jobs have been undermined. And then we write a declaration on coherent regional development and unsustainable development. It is not possible because exactly where a country can act, and this is in this public sector, it is working in the opposite direction. It is not expected, however, that other economic operators will then act the way the state does and does not implement this policy. One of the things that I think is not well handled in this programme in this strategy is the area of parks. I recall the beginning of the mandates when there were a number of debates on the establishment of new landscape parks, the Kočova and snow parks and so on. There was talk of, I don't know, 25 percent or 30 percent of the Slovenian surface to be protected. And parks are supposed to be one of the more important developmental tourism arguments, the attributes in these areas. This part was completely dead in some organised policy. For a year now, I believe that in this area, institutional policy has been saying government policy, nothing special is happening. I think that this is an area that should be much more precise, much more precisely processed and also written in the strategy, when something is expected, where something is expected and what we really need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to express my protest for such a scandalously prepared document with spatial development for the Kočevska region. It is incomprehensible that neither the road link is foreseen, as is already envisaged today, that there is no railway, that there is no pipeline network, that it is not, after all, the status of the centre of national importance in this area. I just want to say the following for a little while. I expect that it will be included in this programme further, a cross-border road link that will have this status, that will have a national railway link, that will also be the centre of the national importance of Kočevje, because there is nowhere else to connect. Of course I also want you to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Reduce the area to the size of the jungle and to the canyon of the river Kolpa. [[...]] Everything else is an economic use that depends on the life and work of 1,600 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Comedian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My opinion is that this document is not only necessary, but also necessary. In general, he's better than none, but I don't think he's bad. In recent months, he has already had a number of additions, and I also expect a wide range of opinions to be taken into account today and will improve this document. The resolution is just some forecast for the future, and I think it may be under-emphasized, given that probably there is not enough data, but I expect that it will be possible to complement it, which is logic. I think it would be much better, but, of course, these 12 years, when it was coming, probably intense in recent years, it was not possible to produce all the regional, developmental, spatial, all the designs of regional spatial development, all the 12 statistical regions, so far we know that this is made only for Koroška and Savinjska and that it is still made for Cyprus, this moment is not yet completed, then it would probably be much easier. This document is also adopted at the Ministry of Environment and Space, at least in these cases produced by the Urban Institute in cooperation with the regional development agencies, it is said on the ground, if I say so and of course these contents, which will be adopted in these documents, if we today have this document, 12 such documents, then it would be very easy to put this together. I also expect that everything that will be adopted in this document will be taken into account in this document, so that this will also enter into the strategy. This is probably also what some criticise in their fields, probably the very weakness that such a document is not entirely made. This means that this is a central document which will, of course, be between the state strategy and the municipal spatial plans and, of course, it is necessary to know what is being described at some regional level as regional specificities and needs, not just specialities. Let's remember a little bit, this document was then substantially changed somewhere in the middle of last year, and so in December and today, on the rapporteur's bench, there is actually a fourth change, which I personally know. Maybe she was one before. Let me express my satisfaction that, finally, in February, the so-called third development axis, which is not only, but extremely important for Koroška, and particularly important for all the regions that it now connects, was also finally withdrawn. It is a fast road, for the direction it connects, the Celovec-Gradec motorway with the motorway via Slovenj Gradc and Velenje Ljubljana-Maribor, and then the Ljubljana-Zagreb motorway, of course passed the New City and Metlika to Karlovac, or perhaps also via Črnomlje na Bosiljevo, and it will in fact connect where Slovenia is the widest and least connected, directly S-J, the Karlovsk-Rešk region, the Belokranj-Dolenjsko region, Posavsko, Savinjsko, Šaleško, Koroško region, I mean Austria. And, of course, there will be some life between these regions. Of course, if you look at them, they are very neglected, or most of them are less developed. This will certainly not happen in a moment, but it is vital that we open up these regions. We know exactly where there is no road, there is no traffic. We also know what a good transport link means to the centres, what opening up to the world means, and we Korosci in particular know how to value it. On this axis, it will develop with a connection to the upgrading of the railway, which has already been damaged once between Dravograd and Šostanje, on the same route will be glassed and the railway track will be finally connected. I noticed in the document, by the way, and it's probably not a draw of the Sevnica-Nebnje railway link, probably missed by mistake. There is already and, of course, with the upgrade between Dravograd and Šostanje, this vertical from Karlovac to Dravograd will be established again and further towards Austria. Once again, I stress that the adoption of this document, which is necessary and will certainly be produced in the coming time for all statistical regions, is an important design, as well as a local debate on all these needs and the determination of those if you want international ones. These are more or less well-established, and then for national and regional and, of course, also for municipal important developments in this document, as regards space and, of course, other content. I'm also happy that it's a good record of what we're going to do with the woods. Otherwise, it is well established that this is the largest natural system in Slovenia. I must say, I'm sure one of the richest natural systems. And it is right that it is written that wood production will be promoted, but that the increase in forest surfaces will not be promoted. That's what some colleagues have been saying about something different, I get the meaning, but I think it's important. We need high-quality forests, not cultivated Slovenia. And I would also like to say, I join that 30% must be protected, I am not against this Slovenian territory, with parks such as this or otherwise. Here probably does not belong to conservation forests and forest reserves, which are different characteristics and we need them. But it is probably very important in these parks that people living in these parks have to have significantly more opportunities for a better life than they have now. So the park has to be attractive to the lives of those residents, not to get them into the black kitchens, you can't live there. This may be a beauty for the museum, but in the black kitchen today, nobody wants to live anymore. And I think that even at the local level and wherever there will be parks, they will also work to ensure that the regulation in this park is so built and so arranged that the interest will be to live in this park, that the park will offer opportunities that most of the time are not now and that these spaces are being resettled rather than inhabited. I expect and want certain things to be complemented at the time when the document is in parliamentary procedure, with comments which are on the ground and which are part of the document, and I think we will have a document in our mandate this year, which is urgently and badly needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's hard to write a document with an address like that to make everyone happy. That's practically impossible. That is why, after all, this debate is intended to complement things, since this is not about evaluating the work of the Minister or the Ministry, or whether they have done a good job or not. That is why, of course, I am pleased with the discussions that are going in the direction of improving the document. This is the purpose of this, let us add the things that need to be added, amend in the second part, and accept a document that will be the real basis for such an important area as the spatial development of Slovenia. So I'm just going to try to warn you, I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said, just one little thing that could cause unloving consequences and there's still time and opportunity to make things right. It is a matter of, at this point, hearing a minor matter when this document enters into force. As it says here, it is due to enter into force on 1 July 2004. This date, of course, has some consequences, it can cause some problems, and I would therefore like to point out at this moment, and today, of course, that this can be rectified until the final adoption. At present, in Slovenia there are changes in spatial acts, municipal acts, which in large numbers, I think there are about 30, if not more municipalities, as far as I know, you must have accurate data at the Ministry. These are spatial acts that began to change in local environments in 2001 and later, they are said to be in the final stage somewhere. It can happen and it would be good to have a large majority of these completed by 1 July and then, of course, there will be no problems. Where that will not be the case, and I speak only of those who are already in the stage, not only of the beginning, but of course of the making, but of course things change significantly. Following this strategy, it is necessary to adopt the spatial order of Slovenia at the latest one year and so on on the basis of this strategy of the municipality, all of which is estimated to be about three years. That's not bad, because it takes your time. But if this happens on July 1st, those local communities that do not have completed these spatial acts will virtually throw a lot of work, procedures and money away and will have to wait two or three years, even worse, to do certain things in their environments that they have now started. This can lead to a lot of problems in the economic field, infrastructure and so on. That is why my proposal and I hope that we can arrange this and agree to the next reading and to the final adoption that where it will not be, and that it will be only valid, of course, and I am talking about those who will not be able to complete these procedures in order to make an exception. There are two options: one is that the strategy enters into force, say 1.1.2005, but it is not necessary, so that the spatial order can begin to be prepared immediately because it will already be adopted. The second, probably easier, is that in some final, or I do not know what provisions of this Decision define that for those and those who have already begun to be allowed to complete the procedure in the old way. Of course, it does not apply to anyone who would start it now, and this way we avoid the problems and, of course, the great costs that have already occurred in these stages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u264	Thank you very much, fellow Kremjar. Lydia Majnik gets the floor for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u265	Thank you very much. If we have defined the economic development strategy as a cover document from which all other strategic documents must come, the spatial development strategy must also contain the same objectives and visions. These same goals and visions must be taken care of by all government departments. I would like to illustrate this requirement only in the case of a transport development strategy. The map, published in the Rapporteur, draws Slovenian interests in international integration, especially 5 and 10 corridors. The texts also speak of these interests, to quote them, in the initial chapters where we talk about Slovenia's equivalent involvement in European space reads: "In fostering connectivity with the wider European space, the competitiveness of Slovenian cities in the European urban network is strengthened, ensuring the effective integration of Slovenian infrastructure networks into European infrastructure networks", so-called TEN, and beyond, "Slovenia must play an active role as part of major European regions, Alpine, Mediterranean, Danube, Central European and Northern European regions as part of the great European regions and take advantage of its position". Further: "In this connection Slovenia must be an equal partner, so it strengthens border urban settlements and thus increases the impact of the Slovenian border regions. Slovenia is involved with its economic public infrastructure in the European TEN infrastructure networks, which is being implemented within the framework of the 5th and 10th Pan-European Transport Corridor in Slovenia. In the influential areas of the large neighbouring cities, Trieste, Zagreb, Gorica, Gradca, Rijeka, such development of the common regions is encouraged, which will accelerate spatial development in the Slovenian territory by planning efficient urban networks, economic zones, tourist centres and other activities. All the texts are practically over a decade old, and now they're just new. That is why even more worrying is the inattention of the Ministry of Transport and Minister Jakob Presecnik. We were informed of the change in our work on the 5th Corridor, the Pan-European Railway Corridor, only when colleague Vila Trofenik asked a question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. And on Monday, the minister was in charge. Although his response was very optimistic, the adoption of the amendment on the committee where Mr Podobnik was an observer could at least oppose in time and thus prevent the European Parliament from voting. However, Members and our observers in the European Parliament are already connecting with related parties. I am therefore convinced that they have certainly been informed of what kind of amendment is being prepared in view of the fact that it has been tabled by European people's parties. If they succeed in the upcoming elections, I fear for the fate of our national interests. I hope that at least the current late reaction will produce fruit, and we will be able to maintain the old route and direction of Ljubljana-Pragersko-Hodosko-Budapest together with Hungary. Otherwise, the north-eastern part of Slovenia, I am thinking mainly of the lower Podravje and Pomurje, as well as Luka Koper, as the amendment was also adopted for that part of the fifth corridor, is being evicted from all development opportunities. Development flows on the fifth corridor, from Barcelona to Kiev, will mainly be aimed at the development of our competitive cities, in our end this is Gradec and Zagreb and by the sea Trieste. Can northeastern Slovenia be only a green oasis, an ecological green oasis, which will have to be limited to protect water resources? With regard to traffic flows, I also draw attention to the map showing the directions for the development of the transport system and where there is no written part of the fast road Slovenska Bistrica-Ormož, in part from Slovenska Bistrica to Hajdine. I expect, of course, an amendment to this part of this strategic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u266	Thank you, colleague Majnik. The text gets Alexander Merlo for his discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not repeat what my predecessors have already said many times today. I think that, as my colleague Majnikov said, I hope that we will remain a green and floral landscape, friendly to the lives of people, good-thinking and environmentalists. I miss all these things here today, when there have been talks about air transport and who will have permits and who will not have permission to land international flights or smaller aircraft, there are problems in areas where they have interests in tourism, such as, say, Crassus with Lipica and a nearby Fan who has a mini airport and is in the same position is Postojna, who has been trying to revitalize our world-renowned pearl Postojna Cave recently. In this context, we see that, as has been the case many times, Persisting will be surrounded by the state and will have an even greater sense of becoming a landfill for what this country does not benefit, or what this country would like to get rid of. You know that in the past period we have received many things we did not want, we have kept against the will of our citizens the training site, the Poček military training centre and we have suffered virtually nothing from it. Now that we are heading towards tourism, I hope that the representatives of the ministry will also listen to the issues of tourism workers who want and see in the categorisation of our airport also in this context some implementation of the tourist offer and services, because the team that took over the Postojna Cave management is promising and already working with the will and momentum also abroad and is trying to restore this world glory, which the Postojna Cave had and has unfortunately gone abroad already into oblivion. But we know what they show abroad to tourists and what we have to show them. So I see absolutely that in a public, in-depth debate we include all these smaller airports facilities in this structure, because this country would cost nothing, but it would mean a lot to the local community. I so hope that this desire will fall to fertile ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u268	Thank you very much, colleague Merlo. Joseph Spindler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President, honourable Members and Members. A warm welcome. I think that this spatial strategy has somehow come to light at the right time, because I believe that this is absolutely necessary for our country of Slovenia. The spatial strategy mainly shows that there are social, economic, environmental and local factors for the spatial development of Slovenia. The spatial development of Slovenia is affected by the changed social economic situation and the country's associated development definitions. At the same time, the process of regionalisation, in my view, increasing the role of local level, certainly plays an important role, strengthening the importance of spatial [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In particular, individual local factors, demographic trends, migration, as well as changes in the economic and social structure of the population. [[...]] Changing the value and way of life, in any case the spatial strategy must take into account the requirements for ensuring and protecting the quality of the environment. Preservation of nature, protection of spatial identity and cultural heritage and protection and improvement of the quality of the residential working environment are certainly fundamental development requirements, which the spatial strategy includes as an integral part of targeted spatial development. But not at the expense of someone who could preserve this quality of life through our history. Now it is often allowed to continue its economic development. In the strategy, the Republic of Slovenia defines its starting points, as well as its development objectives, and the global design of the country's spatial development, sets out development guidelines for individual spatial systems, settlements, infrastructure and landscapes, and sets out measures for their implementation on several occasions without listening to the wishes of individual local communities, even though they are often prevented from further development and despite the prevailing state of play and taking into account the prescribed measures. These are things that are kind of bothering us. And I also think that between these places we should write under the 14th point, the important city of Ptuj and beyond, here should also be according to my Ormož, Ljutomer and Gornja Radgona. These are the amazing strategic cities that gravitate - Ljutomer and Ormož to Croatian territory, and Gornja Radgona to Austrian territory. Otherwise, the exit of the labour force will continue in the neighbouring province of Austria from this border area. Furthermore, I would like to say that Ormož and Ljutomer are still railway and road crossings. So in Ormož v. Croatia, forward to Ljutomer, forward to Hungary and towards Austria. On the other hand, Ljutomer is also the railway crossing which still has a connection with Gornja Radgona or the future new link to the Austrian Radgon, which they somehow want to bring from the Austrian Radgon to Murska Sobota. I think it is impossible to accept this, given that this route exists to the Upper Radgona. There is only a need to cover that part of the track, when the Austrians have practically built that old part of the track and we should take it around the Austrian Radgona a little bit, and I think that these things are absolutely necessary here. The next thing I want to draw attention to is Ormož-Lutomer and perhaps this part of the Municipality of Razkrižje, which are strictly border areas. And these areas are pretty much empty for us. I think that this is essential to this development strategy, in order to devote a little more to the three cities I have mentioned. I think we still have time in this strategy to fix this. There are a lot of these things that are definitely this area that we natives call Prleki. Or have you forgotten that name? Precija has always been present and is no less valuable area than Prekmur. And this, especially what eats in Prlekia, we have very high-quality wells of water, we have very high-quality water, at least a luscious area. The Ljutomer water cover belongs, I think, to the highest quality water cover in Slovenia, which should be kept in this area in particular. I think that these covers can be found even more and that we can meet the needs, not only of this end, but also of most of Slovenia by quality drinking water. The other thing, this rural area, is what most of my colleagues have already said, is that it has to be protected in some way, and it is also possible to allow for a little individual construction in specific areas, especially in these border areas. What's happening to us? Where there are vineyard areas, this countryside is usually empty, given the difficult work, to the impossible working conditions. That's how we should keep people in this area. If we lose people from these areas, we can no longer imagine quality winemaking. Today, the wider agricultural area is understood by this strategy as a flat area. However, in this part of Prlekija and Slovenski Goric, these rural areas are extremely important for us, especially where vines grow, because practically other cultures on such steep sites cannot be cultivated. I think that this is one major contribution from the State of Slovenia, as well as the wider area. At least we must be aware that Slovenian winemaking belongs, or I will say that this area of northeastern Slovenia belongs to 5% of the world's top quality wines. So much for a little while. I think that we will fix the rest of things at the second reading, and we may add a lot more to this strategy. It also understands the Ministry of Environment and Space and the people working on this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u270	Thanks, buddy Spindler. This was a debate between Members and Members. Now I'd like to give my word to the government, Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try for a moment, I have 15 minutes to fly over some of the comments or respond to them. First of all, on the topics discussed by Ambassador Sok, Tanko, Weber, Kebrich, some others. Many of you have associated with our assessment contained in the section on state assessments and I understand that the starting points are common. In short, we agree on all of this. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, when we wrote the strategy, the dilemma was how to solve or how to put an end to the problems that were set out: conceptually or projectically. Some of the discussers you wanted were project, individual locations, tiny points on the map. The law on regulating space, we did not want it anyway, but also the law on regulating space does not allow us to do so, obliges us to conceptually stop problems. The spatial development strategy ahead of you shows the direction, the specific criteria set out the spatial order of Slovenia, which is a sub-legislative act based on the strategy. There was a lot of discussion about individual measures. We can complement them, it is not a problem, but it is important to be aware that many of the measures bring other strategies, such as the national programme for the construction of motorways, which you have recently had here. This is one of the measures, we cannot repeat this in the spatial development strategy, and we cannot wait for the strategy to be changed so that some substantive strategic document can be adopted. Part of the measures are also within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. In short, the set of measures that may occur here is limited, but this is not a weakness of the strategy, but the strategy gives only an extension for then sectoral measures. The second thematic area - settlements. We rely on the network of settlements on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. This is mainly due to the orientation of the so-called social infrastructure. We need this network to steer things that can be dealt with more effectively at regional level. I must say that we have a network of settlements divided here into 40 larger settlements, first three, Ljubljana, Koper, Maribor, then the second level, 14 more important settlements, third level is 20 more important settlements. And there's a whole strategy hanging on this network of settlements. I am also trying to explain perhaps misunderstandings in some discussions. The next topic you touched was construction. There was much talk about scattered construction, why there should be no more scattered construction, and some, why there is still what is permitted. The law on the regulation of space explicitly, whether in strategy or not, states that construction must first be within existing settlements. It's a legal restriction. Inside existing settlements first on degraded and abandoned land. Besides, we can't, not you, not us, judge municipal spatial acts. The priorities must be determined by the municipalities themselves. Outside the settlements, however, it is possible to go or to expand the settlements, and it is possible to make exceptions to the law, and it is possible to go to a dispersed building where it is an autochthonist. This autochthonous sample is specifically highlighted here. In the spatial order of Slovenia, we will also highlight this specificity of some Slovenian areas, where this is an indigenous settlement pattern, such as Haloze. Mr Brejc had a great deal of discussion about tourism. Here we came from a search for a balance between a desire for mass tourism, in individual areas, and a desire for the full protection of nature. The spatial development strategy must seek a compromise between extremes. That is why, of course, we have foreseen outside the settlements that tourism must mainly adapt to nature. Skiing wherever appropriate. Water skiing where appropriate, and so on. He was talking about water protection areas so that they should receive greater monetary incentives. This is not the text of the strategy or the topic of the strategy, but the agri-environment programmes, for example, point out this. He was talking about rehabilitating municipal waste disposals. Of course, there is no general orientation in the spatial development strategy. This is primarily the responsibility of the congregations. Sometimes they even have golf courses on it. Why not? He talked about the need to promote agricultural use at, where prevention should be avoided. He asked why not the other uses, such as recreation. We agree that such concrete comments are welcome and, of course, the text needs to be complemented accordingly. Then Mr Weber and many others asked why it was not written, say Ašič, the road between Brežica and Rogatec or Rogaška Slatina, Weber said why the existing railway line was not written and so on. I think it's a bit of a misunderstanding. We did not draw regional roads, existing ones, in this document. Not even anticipated. We have not drawn existing regional railways which are not intended for remote integration or cross-border integration. That's why it's not all there. This, of course, does not mean that this would end or anything. It's a different way of preparing. If you want to draw all of this, it is also theoretically possible, then you should attach another map with very many lines. Some were talking about the 5th corridor. For example, Lydia Majnik and Jelinčič. The 5th and 10th corridors in this document are planned as we think it is right. As we believe, they are Slovenian needs. If anyone else, Italians or Austrians, are planning the 5th corridor differently, it is their responsibility. We think it has to be. Therefore, of course, we do not consider the neighbor’s wishes to do so. Mr Vizjak then spoke about the strategy being associated with regional plans. We assume that the spatial development strategy is superior, so regional plans must be in line with the country's spatial development strategy. He mentioned a sentence, perhaps a bit awkwardly written about the time of construction of the radioactive waste dump. True, the legislation says that it is necessary to do so by 2008. The strategy is a general document and has a more general dictatorship before the end of operation. If it bothers anyone, we can fix it in 2008. He was talking about the airport of Cerklje and some others you also talked about the airports: Postojna, Sežana and some others. As regards the airport of Cerklje, it must be said that airports which may be of international importance are two airports of Gorica and Novo mesto, indicated in the strategy due to the approximately equivalent accessibility of all areas in Slovenia. This, of course, does not mean that you will receive this role. It means she's a freak. However, of course the airport Novo mesto is not defined whether it is Cross or Church. That's not the kind of thing that's drawn in a map. Maybe it can be written in the text, but then it's your decision. This moment is actually a greater emphasis on the day of the airport Transient. Therefore, the emphasis from the Cross on the Church would require an appropriate amendment. If it really started to be used for civil use, then it might even make sense. Mr Vizjak spoke about why Brezice was not mentioned as a transport terminal at international level. It's a misunderstanding. In the map, they are explicitly drawn as a transport terminal at international level. Mr Terčon and some others spoke about Natura 2000 and the problems arising from this. The fact is that 38% of Slovenia have defined the professional basis for the declaration of specific protection areas in order to determine the Natura 2000 area. And the fact is that the designation of an area as a special protection zone constitutes a certain restriction on the conduct of that area. This map will be sent out very shortly into a much shorter public discussion. The fact is that we have a duty here to respect the directive and that where there is a more important population of endangered plant and animal species, which is on the relevant list annexed to the relevant European Directive, we, if you do not want to, must declare this area a special protection area. Some minor maneuver is possible, but where a larger population appears, it is not possible. Therefore, some of the conflicts that would arise on the basis of the currently anticipated 38% with a shorter public debate may be avoided, but most probably not. Some asked if, I'm sorry, I hadn't finished everything at the airports before. The fact that an airport is not defined as an international, not an international, lower-ranking airport does not preclude that a very local airport is not used as a runway for landing aircraft from abroad. However, this means, of course, that it must respect the relevant standards of the aviation law. However, the fact that it does not appear as an airport of international importance in the strategy does not mean, of course, that the direction of the State is not primarily focused on identifying a point as an airport of international importance, that the State does not encourage it but prevents it. Mr Kremjar then spoke about the entry into force. I'd like to re-emphasize. To us, I apologize for using this term, the flag will fall on 21 July this year because of the directive on a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. Until then, we need to put under the roof a strategy for spatial development and spatial order. The spatial order is now emerging in parallel and there will be a public debate in May. That way we will have it fully ready by 1 July. As soon as a strategy is adopted, it can be adopted by the government next week. That's our ambition. We will not wait one year as the law allows, but immediately, in a few days we will go to reception. Although we can implement the strategy, perhaps not with July 1st, but with 10. July, perhaps even theoretically with July 15, but by July 21st, both texts must be adopted. That's why we're in a hurry. I'm out of time. But I must say that I am grateful for a number of suggestions that warned me of any inconsistent text. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u272	Minister, complete, normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u273	But sometimes even on something we may have miswritten. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This, of course, we will try to arrange until the second reading in the form of appropriate amendments. [[...]] I did not even reply to Mr Barovic, although I did not understand part of his discussion, but I would like to stress this in particular, many of you have discussed the individual texts of the explanation. This may not be an honor. But this explanation was produced as a fruit of ten authors, who also have an uncoordinated dictatorship, which they wrote text at a time when some things were not yet known, and we now know about them well. Such reasoning may not be entirely appropriate about all sentences or all points. I would ask you not to devote too much weight to this. It's crucial what the ruling says. The text which disturbed Mr Barovic was in relation to the landfills of municipal waste, where he then claimed that the State was burdening the municipality of Trbovlje. And here I just want to deny his claim. The Regional Depository costs 440 million, of which 220 million were given to the municipality by the State, has to give a total of 220 million, of which 55 million according to my data on Trbovlje, and that is what the municipality of Trbovlje will be able to pay from the State Tax. Or maybe I have some wrong information right now, but I'm sorry in advance. I mainly hope that I have responded to the most important comments. But if I'm not up to anything, maybe I'll be warned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The rest is available for a while. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss sharing this time? I'll write it down first. Mamić, Weber Anyone else? I didn't hear from the juice. Sok, you want to discuss it? Now it's time. So my friend Mamić, Weber and Sok. Five minutes from now. Please, Comrade Mamić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Today we've heard a lot of interesting things, very important. I'm going to talk about the things that I'm most interested in, which I've been exhibiting since last year. I wonder, for example, when renovating settlements, where old houses are especially in slums in such a state that they are also dangerous to passersby, how does this problem get resolved elsewhere if we can't solve it? If we know him, thank God. I think it's such a burning problem. The biggest problem is that the owners are either unattainable or there are so many heirs and so on. But the problem is people who live near such facilities. That is why I propose that, if there is any way to get those facilities to be restored, which would be much cheaper, especially for young families, to reach the residential areas or to the apartment, or to break down so that they do not kill any missing persons. In Slovenia, there are many buildings of former JLA, warehousing or warehouses. In my opinion, construction, I don't think a large majority of them are cases of reconstruction for structural reasons. I'm sure Static would say it's for a break. Also in architectural terms, I think it would be best to simply remove this and the location itself is intended for an industrial zone or a settlement or whatever. Small entrepreneurs can also use those facilities that are good or new to build. It would also be right for the state to help, stimulate these people, and neither does production run out, but they are already paying such taxes that it is horrifying not to talk about investing in infrastructure, etc. I read today in the newspaper that in Benkovec, Croatia, which is rarely inhabited and abandoned houses, the country offers parcels free of charge and buys enough building material for young families to return. If you think it's funny, I'll bring you the paper and you'll see what it says. I don't think that Slovenia should be so kind, but doing exactly that kind of service, but some pardons should be here for these people to be stimulated a little bit for life. This also restores the deserted countryside. We know what the countryside is like not to talk about it. Because I'm running out of time to mention just the windmills. At first, I was very excited about the construction of windmills. But when I realized in a little bit more detail that these are five meters in diameter at the ground, 52 meters high, plus a windmill that is, I think, 30 meters, that pen or whatever it is, it comes at 80 meters high. Here people will have to decide for themselves where these believers will be. I don't know how it's gonna go through. In view of all that we have heard today, because what we have heard today is so many comments, so many questions, so many initiatives, I suggest that this should be taken into account and that a new Rapporteur should be made to avoid a large number of amendments, as we say for the building law, is elegant, has done twice or three times the rapporteur, so that the amendments were still enough, but inadequately fewer than they were at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u277	I would like to say to the Minister that, of course, I am not satisfied with them, because I would like to point out that we are talking about development. If we want to take a picture of the existing situation, then that's what's drawn or something less, but seriously less. The Ljubljana-Kočevje-Petrinja-Delnice road connects to the highway cross of Croatia River-Karlovacin has the status of cross-border road connection. In this document it has only status, a road of national importance. It has no importance on the road for cross-border connection. But the fact is, this road is already on its way. And what I propose and expect in this development is that this road will be defined in this spatial development strategy as a road for cross-border integration. That's all. Legalization of what it is already is. But if this road stops in Kočevska, then I'd understand, OK. It stops, but it doesn't, it goes on and it's important. About the railroad. The national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure was adopted years ago, but today we find that it is not implemented and that some things have already changed significantly along this route. The State has decided that on this route an important storage of oil derivatives will be of national importance. We note that this route does not meet the conditions for a train to take a full tank to this warehouse, which means that the transport is more expensive and dangerous, because half an empty tank is extremely dangerous for the wagon to roll over. So something has already happened in the meantime, because then the infrastructure needs to be adequately resolved and written down. Only the city of Kočevje meets the criteria under this strategy, which are written down, when a city can become a place or centre of national importance. Ten thousand people are important for the development of this area, Kočevska has nowhere else to be connected, the White Krajina is not going, Ljubljana knows that the chapter is for itself, for the direction of Notranjska we do not have any development potential in this strategy. And this area can only live on what it has there and status - the centre of the national importance of Kočevje must have if we want to move the development in this area forward. And since it really meets these conditions, I expect this to be written down. Even if you look at the distribution of centres, cities with national significance, it is just not known, and the area of the Julian Alps is comparable to Kočevska. But the Caravans and the Julian Alps are a completely different world. Kočevska is a perfectly normal country that can develop and have all the conditions, climate and altitudes and I don't know what else. That is why I am talking about the need to move development forward in this area as well. If we look at the pipeline's divorce, I also don't know why it's not possible to plan because it's a planned construction of a pipeline network, which is also a question of when and how it will be, but why this area should not be connected to this network, which is almost in the immediate vicinity of the past. It's a section of Novo mesto-Nova Gorica, and that's all, I don't know, maybe 20 kilometers from the projected route, which hasn't even been located exactly. This is not recorded in this program. All other major sites are connected, to the rail network and to this gas pipeline network and to the corresponding road network. Unfortunately, this area is comparable to what is now being drawn only with Karavankas and the Julian Alps.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u278	Thank you very much. And my colleague, Alojz Sok, has a word for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out once again, which I already explained in the introductory explanation, that in fact some of our areas are so scattered today in the Republic of Slovenia, so empty that it would make sense to think about some encouraging measures. And if what is written on page 134 is actually going to happen, when you say that it is absolutely necessary to prevent dispersed construction, it says, among other things: "The dispersal of construction is mainly disputed due to the low density of the settlement, especially in the outskirts of towns and settlements. The scattered construction of settlements prevents the rationality of municipal equipment, prevents rational use of energy, as transmission systems are too complex, complex and energy-consuming." In this system, when we adopt a new resolution on the energy programme, it would be possible to think differently. Thus, if we introduce the use of renewable energy sources in Slovenia, biomass, of course, such an assumption of energy waste and diversification in this context is waste. I am afraid, however, that in the whole area of Slovenia, some areas such as the area of Slovenian Mountains or the area of Haloz would lose the population even faster in the future than is already happening today. If scattered construction is allowed to some extent, we ensure that these areas, despite all these trends, when people move from rural to urban areas, that we keep people still in this area and that we also retain this cultural culture in this regard. Not that we're actually destroying her with this. If certain people have moved into these areas, of course municipal infrastructure has also been established, roads have been modernised, pipelines, telephones have been set up, and places like this have been acquired. I also have to say that this infrastructure has been invested by these immigrants for the most part, or a good part of the funds, of course, that they have been assisted by the congregations. The country contributed very little to this. It would therefore be pointless for the future in the whole of Slovenia to deal with this problem in the same way. I think that these matters should be written slightly differently in this Spatial Plan Decision and perhaps these requirements of the Space Regulation Act, because this comes from there, somehow softened, to see if it makes sense. For if someone does not get a building permit, I know that in our congregation we have sent about 330 applications to the Ministry in this direction to allow people to invest, and then less than half of the applications in our congregation’s spatial plan have been resolved. But if I look at the area where I decided to build my own house, then once a vital village, where there was, I don't know, maybe for one class of kids, today actually without, I think on the whole hill, there's only one student in the whole area. If we have such a policy of prevention, not only is migration at risk, but also the functioning of those institutions, in the first place of education, for which we have earmarked huge financial resources in the past. I suggest that you think about this matter and perhaps write this down slightly more slowly in the decree itself, and that it would be possible in areas such as Haloze, the Slovenian Mountains, and others, but only to some extent, to build in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u280	Thank you very much. And it is now right for me to give another word to the Minister for the answers to these three questions or debates. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. First of all, there's gonna be no misunderstanding. 134th page where you read this, Mr Sok, explicitly says, although this is an explanation not a decree: "In Slovenia, in addition to a dispersed settlement, which is an indigenous settlement pattern, there is a largely dispersed construction." In short, this chapter speaks of scattered construction, which is not an indigenous settlement pattern. So the one that seems to us from an urban point of view is the worst or worst possible solution. This is mainly around major cities. In this respect, it must be said that one form of rehabilitation is a dispersed building, that is, one that is not an indigenous settlement pattern, including density. Mr Mamić spoke about the renovation of settlements or concrete measures related to the renovation of settlements. This is not a matter directly of this strategy, however, the inspection has the possibility, in the event that an object that threatens the survivors, is to order the demolition, in the extreme case, it can even collapse itself, even some such cases in Slovenia. We broke it ourselves last year. Otherwise, the key thing is the tax system in particular, the property tax law, which unfortunately has been in the parliamentary bench for too long, also has a provision in the text that allows the State to sit on the property in case of unpaid tax after the debt has been imposed on the auction. The key problem with such decaying objects is mainly co-ownership. We are also encouraging in another way, for example, with the existing compensation for the use of building land, it is also possible to promote use and reconstruction. So there are already some instruments. Mr Weber, as far as the pipeline is concerned, we have coordinated with the energy sector or with geogas. These gas connections were by no means intended for non-economic reasons. In theory, we could even draw it, but in advance, we would know that this is probably not going to happen. But as for the roads, I have to say there's been a misunderstanding, a little bit of the terminology we've put in. The road of national importance, this is the road Ljubljana-Kočevje and beyond to Croatia, is a road that really goes across the border, but is not called cross-border, because cross-border is called fast roads, such as the road of national importance or the main road, in a more well-known terminology. This may also be due to a misunderstanding, due to the terminology used in the description of road links. Otherwise, as far as the place of the national centre is concerned, of course, it is a matter of particular discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u282	Colleagues and colleagues, this concludes the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the motion for a ruling is appropriate for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the framework of the vote, at 19.55. I'm breaking this agenda. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u283	I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. Before we go to the vote, I just want to inform you that there was one computer error yesterday that we need to take into account in our work. Yesterday, when Vice-President Pohorec put to the vote the Government's proposal on the implementation of Article 138(1) in the proposal for a law on environmental protection, the vote in the paper showed that 63 were present, 42 were in favour and 21 were against. As you know, a decision cannot be taken if it is more than one third against. The computer showed that more than one third of them were actually against the decision because it was misprogrammed, so we have to take this into account. On the basis of the foregoing, I inform you that the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Tuesday after the end of the last item of the agenda, as this corresponds to the actual decision taken by the Council last night in the vote. The computer was programmed for one third and the rules of procedure set out more than one third and 21 out of 63 is exactly one third, so that this is taken into account. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u284	I have to ask you. What, then, about the decision that was voted on, because we immediately voted after them that the government should make a proposal for a third reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u285	Yeah, it's a friend. It's a procedural conclusion. This procedural decision shall enter into force if it is voted against by more than one third. There was exactly one-third of the computer that showed wrong that it wasn't voted out. You will also receive written information On the basis of the above mentioned information, they have prepared here that the Third Review of the Proposal of the Law will be carried out on Tuesday 30.3. after the end of the last item of the agenda. You will receive an overview of the amendments adopted and the articles to which these amendments have been accepted. A qualified proposer may propose amendments to this Article by the beginning of the third reading of the draft law. I will also give you this information in writing. I think it's right that you have it before you, and if there's any other discussion, we can talk about it during this meeting, and by Tuesday, there's plenty of time. I just wanted to let you know about this. Item 6 of the agenda - the second discusses the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u286	Since you're going back to yesterday's meeting, you should say so. [[Can you please let me talk?]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u287	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u288	In view of the fact that you are returning to yesterday's meeting, it must be made clear that you gave the floor to Mr Ivan in the round of Janez, Janša and above the procedure yesterday at the time of the debate. And, of course, there was no way to do the controversy. And the worst of all is that you did not warn the gentlemen, you did not give him a reminder, at the moment he was insulted and gravely insulted the Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy. I just got a magnetogram today. And then I went to watch a television video, where the gentleman directly accuses Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy that, "you have brought this kind of policy into the picture" and so on, "in the end you steal even from the bankruptcy masses". And, Mr President, I ask you to provide an appropriate apology to the Members and Members of Parliament, and also to your side, because you have by no means warned the Member of Parliament not to speak for the first time about the matter on the agenda, for the second time that, of course, he was not able to speak at that time, and for the third time, the worst part of the insult, the slander that has been said here, you did not respond and you did not remind him that he was insulting the Members and Members of the other party. Magnetogram's here. Take a look at the video. Otherwise, we will have to demand this publicly in a different way. Read it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u289	Look, you're mentioning the part of the answer that was given to last night, and I've justified my decision to give a chance for replicas, and this right is vested in the President, and it's also explained when. Please always, even now, that in our performances and all of us are responsible for them, we try to avoid anything anyone might understand about the insult. This is some basic starting point to come from. I suggest that we all make every effort, including me, as the most responsible, to ensure that the work takes place in this national assembly. First and foremost, I asked yesterday, and also today, or the day before, for peace in the court, when the meeting is being held, and also now I ask you to do so, so that it is possible to give a word, to draw attention to any slips, mistakes or words that do not judge and then to expect an appropriate response. Point 6, the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Please, for peace in the hall. Each of us is responsible for the words spoken in this national assembly. As president, the President, together with my colleagues, I will not give my word for controversy, you said, I am only answering your words, I call on everyone to avoid any indication or qualifications that anyone might understand as offensive. Is it not possible that everyone would intervene at any time in the debate, if he did so, could happen that he would simply disturb the normal course of the sitting, please all that is possible and, of course, we have to follow the rules of procedure. Comrade Anderlich, I suggest we not continue this discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u290	I have asked on behalf of the Members and Members who have taken this statement indignantly and have also watched it several times on television and have asked for an apology from you and from the gentleman who said that. And this is your duty to ensure, because during the meeting, when he declared it, when the protests were from the bench, you did not guarantee it. You will decide what you will do, and we will decide how we will act on your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u291	My friend Anderlich, I'm telling you and everyone else, I'm not opening a discussion, I'm not giving a word to anyone else. Please, for peace in the hall. We're not going to keep this discussion going. I do my job the way I think it's for the best. If there's ever anything that goes wrong, I'm sorry. I can do that in this case, too. Please, for peace in the hall. I don't think we need to continue this controversy and I'm going to stop it. I said that meetings should be conducted as required by the Rules of Procedure. If it doesn't happen, and it does, on my part or on your part, it's possible to make an apology. It's never a problem for me. You can't make anyone do it. I can't make them do it. It was never a problem for me, not in this case. I assure you that I will also chair the meeting later so that when I assess that an insult has been made, we will also draw his attention to this when the word reaches out of the debate. I'm asking for some patience in our work. I also said what my relationship was. Someone else can make another statement. I have made my commitment, in particular, to conduct the meeting further by running in accordance with the rules of procedure and also with one culture required by our work. Item 6 of the agenda. We're moving to six. Procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u292	Mr President, you have overlooked that Mr Janša has spoken and would probably like to apologize and not allow him. You said earlier that you didn't want him, that you didn't want to force anyone. Please give him a chance to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u293	Let's go to the 6th item of the agenda. Look, let me just say one thing. We still have a few months of hard work ahead of us, especially until the end of work in this semester, until the start of parliamentary holidays. And our work can only be done well if we do the things required by this time with the utmost patience. These are extremely difficult. We know that. There are still constitutional changes ahead of us, European legislation. This will require collegiateness and patience from all of us. None of us are perfect. I am, and there will be someone who will say or do something that no one else will like. Whether this will be interpreted as an overriding of the Rules of Procedure, it is also possible to apologize for everything. So we all need to know how to behave. I ask you for one collegiality and one patience in our work. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are at the end of the 6th item of the agenda. With Article 3, we have two amendments, the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs to Article 3. We also have the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 3. I am putting both to the debate and asking if anyone would like a word to explain their vote. Then, of course, we will make a separate decision. Can we make a decision? Could you please check your voting devices? Can we make a decision? First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the LDS and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. 64 present, 53 for and none against. The vote was 53.) [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. 68 present. 51 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] This one's been adopted. In Article 4, anyone would like a word to explain their vote? We're making a decision. 67 present, 27 for and 34 for. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 34.]] This was not accepted. Fifth's out. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 has been withdrawn. We're not gonna make a decision about him. We have tabled an amendment to Article 7 of the SDS Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're making a decision. 69 present, 26 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] He wasn't accepted. The amendment is tabled by the same parliamentary group in Article 9. This has been changed, you have it on the bench in a modified dictatorship. We can decide on the amendment to Article 9, just as the pain has changed. We're voting. 67 present, 27 to 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] He wasn't accepted. By article 11, we have the amendment of the SDS parliamentary groups to Article 11. Just a minute. The 10th and 11th have been withdrawn. Is that right? However, Article 16a will be decided. Anybody want to explain their voice? Otherwise, we'll vote. Please. 66 present, 20 for and 40 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] He wasn't voted out. By the 20th Article, we have the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs. Can we make a decision? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. 69 present, 43 for and 3 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] He was adopted. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Presidents. Given that fewer than 10% of all articles have been adopted, I propose that a third hearing be held at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u295	The Minister has therefore proposed that this proposal for a law be considered at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on this decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members present. We're voting. Because of the computer error already noted, I'm going to find out here. [[...]] 69 present, 50 for and 15 for. The decision is adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that we will hold a hearing on Tuesday 30.03. after the end of the agenda of the meeting. The services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants by the beginning of the third reading. This concludes the agenda item. We are at the end of the 7th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the defence acknowledgment. We are moving on to a decision on an amendment tabled. In doing so, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution, the proposed amendment will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. The same majority also applies to the adoption of the law in its entirety. Doesn't it sound bad? We are at the 7th item of the agenda - we have a second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Is that better? We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. In advance, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution, the proposed amendment will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. The same majority also applies to the adoption of the law in its entirety. We therefore have an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 24. Does anyone want to explain their voice? Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The content of this amendment defines the duty of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to the people being treated by this amendment. In view of the fact that there was a smaller occupation during the morning session, I will quickly tell which members are involved. These are members of the permanent and military composition who worked in the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian army for at least 15 years, were members of the manoeuvre structure of national protection in 1990 and participated in the preparation and self-reliant war in 1991, and are at least 30 years old, this applies to men, and 25 years for women, pension years. They have the right to early retirement with an 80% pension base. For each year over 30 years of retirement, the pension base is increased by 1%, but up to 83%. With this, this category, which, of course, is not numerical, would be aligned to the first degree with those who have crossed from JLA and have this period by increasing all time already taken into account. There's more to it than money. So far, we have made this possible for several categories of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SDS Group, we discussed this subject in relation to the treatment it had been given and to the support expressed or non-support expressed in the debate this afternoon. We have concluded that unless this amendment receives the necessary support, due to the duty of our country, due to the duty of the Republic of Slovenia to these people, we cannot support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u297	Please, first Comrade Marshich, then Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u298	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although the hall was empty today, there was quite a debate on the amendment of colleagues from SDS. I must say that I am surprised, if I have correctly understood Mr Petan, that they have changed their minds, because both in the Defence Committee and in today's debate, they have always argued, even if this amendment is not adopted, they will not make it conditional on the adoption of the law itself. It's weird, but it's a matter of decisions and obviously the latest pressures and blackmails. I'm going to repeat exactly what we said this morning. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are precisely aware that the status of veterans needs to be regulated and regulated. This has not been done in all these years. Or it started, but it didn't turn out the way it was supposed to. At least that's what we heard from the debate today. The amendment of colleagues from the SDS is inconsistent and is not properly prepared. This was also found by the legislative and legal service. I will not mention the reasons because they were listed both on the Defence Committee and here in this Chamber. Since our colleagues are not, we have heard today, and let us support it, we will be correcting it in the next process, but our colleagues have not done so, but we could. We could take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service and amend the amendment, even though they knew that it simply did not hold back and that it even had anti-constitutional elements. I will not support this amendment and regret decisions at the last minute of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u299	Comrade Master Petty Officer, behind him colleague Jelinčič. That's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u300	Thank you very much. We can say that the law has a number of good solutions that are worth supporting, but they are things like this amendment, which need to be approached in a different way. We believe that a coherent and proper approach to resolving our relationship to our past is certainly a relation to the key act of self-sustainment. We consider it reasonable to accept this amendment. If he lacks any solution or correction that needs to be done in terms of compliance, as the legal and legislative service says, we can do so. But we can't do that unless we accept this amendment. Our decision on this amendment is also about deciding or supporting the law. If there is a dispute, it is still possible to supplement the solution in the third reading. But if your colleagues in the ruling coalition say no, this thing is stopped, just like you know. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u301	My friend Jelinczych. Does anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please, Comrade Jelinčič, then we will go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. In the same way, a large number of JLA officers who were privileged at the time and were given a huge amount of money by the Slovenian State. The Slovenian state seems to be used to reward its own country issuers and anti-State elements. Those who defended and created the Slovenian state will be beaten on the head. With us in the Slovenian National Party, we are ashamed to have such strange double criteria and to destroy everything that has done for Slovenia and to lift up those who want to destroy the Slovenian state. I think it is a great shame that we reduce, by adopting this amendment, at least to some long-term measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u303	I take it we can come to the vote. Once again, a reminder of Article 124 and two thirds of the Members present for the adoption of this amendment and then of the law as a whole. We're making a decision. Please, for your attention, we're in the middle of a decision. 67 present, 29 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 35.]] This amendment has not been adopted. Does the Minister want a word about the third hearing?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u304	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Given that the amendment has not been adopted, I propose that the third reading of the draft defence law be carried out at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u305	We voted on the amendment. Please, is there a problem? If I hear any objections, I respond to him so that there will be no misunderstandings. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law will take place on Tuesday 30.3.2004 following the conclusion of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. The amendment was not accepted. There is no amendment, so we can go to the consideration of this point or to the third hearing on Tuesday. 24 hours must pass between the second and third readings. Now I do not want to go through all the rules of procedure in this dialogue, but I am prepared, willing to give an explanation at all times, so that there is no misunderstanding as to the course of the decision. We're at point nine now. So we'll decide on the last one on Tuesday. At point 9, we have a third reading of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in European Union matters. First of all, please bear in mind the fact that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 3a of the Constitution, we are taking decisions if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. We have an amendment to Article 4 and two amendments to Article 6. We're going to the Fourth Amendment first. We have an amendment from the New Slovenia Group.Does anyone want to explain their vote? Please, Comrade Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u306	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In my personal opinion, this law is far too fearful and greedy in some articles, and it also reduces the powers of this assembly. Therefore, I think that the correction in Article 4 would be urgently needed. As we know, some legal experts feel that our current State Assembly Rules are all too congregational and thus less likely for the government to enforce itself against the National Assembly. Some who have come to know the congregation system will likely know this more than I do. In the second model, the parliamentary one, the government has a better chance than in the first one I mentioned. Let me just mention briefly that the previous Rules of Procedure were a little more favourable to the State Assembly, and this is not. That's why I think this amendment needs to be adopted. Although there have been a lot of words spoken today under this law, I think it is completely illogical to expect that if the current dictatorship, which is called the State Assembly, participates in the formation of positions, what cooperation means, we all know. That's why I think the new diction will be much better than it was before. That's why I'm going to vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u307	Please also pay attention to the time to explain my voice, so I won't interrupt, or I will do it. Someone else wants to explain their voice. Can we make a decision? [[Yeah.]] One more warning about the required majority. We decide on the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Present 67, 23 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] He wasn't accepted. The SNS Group shall submit an amendment to Article 6 of the Amendment, and the NSI Group of Members shall also rule on Article 6 of the Amendment. We'll do it in a row. First, on the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. We're at Article 6. We decide on the amendment of the SNS delegation to Article 6. Present 67, 20 for and 41 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] He wasn't accepted. We are now voting on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 6. We're voting. This amendment has not been adopted either. Present 65, 21 for and 40 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment was not accepted. This is how we have done the vote on the amendments. I have no warning of non-compliance, so we can move on to a full decision on the bill. Anybody want to explain? Please, Comrade Dr. Bajuk, this was a second treatment earlier, and now it's a third. Do I have to explain all the steps? Thank you. We are in third reading and because I do not have any notice of non-compliance, we can move on to a full decision on the bill. Once again, a warning on the need for a majority to take a decision. We vote on the adoption of the law as a whole. Present 66, 50 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We are at the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is at the first stage of the consideration of the proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a decree on the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, the first phase, is suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. Then we'll move on to the decision. We're voting. Present 68, 47 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] The decision is adopted and the agenda item is closed. On the 10th item of the agenda, let me conclude that we cannot deal with the draft law in the third reading because of the referendum initiative that has been tabled. On the basis of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 25.3.2004, the proposal for a decision under Article 15 and Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative will be considered as a preliminary question under this point. It will be dealt with by the Internal Policy Committee tomorrow. Once we get to the lock of the decision and the committee report, we can move on to this point. Since the conditions for it are not met now, we move on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL’S PROTOCOL RATIFICATION PROTOCOL ON THE APPROACH OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY TO THE EUROCONTROL INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON COOPERATION FOR THE SAFETY OF AIR navigation OF 13. In December 1990, which was amended and aligned with the 27th Protocol. June 1997 This bill was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? I guess not. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. I don't see any interest in further explanation. Anyone want to explain their position? Please, my friend Janko Weber. On behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u308	In these ratifications relating to the accession of the European Community, which also concerns Eurocontrol, which is speaking and is actually set up to establish a single European air traffic management system, we have been alerted in the parliamentary group since the adoption of the Navigation Services Act. We wanted these ratifications to be done before we adopted the law at the time, because of course the ratification of this law at the 15th point and also at the 17th also meant very specific obligations for our navigation services or in this case our public company, which we set up to carry out this service. It would probably be much easier if we had known these obligations by then. I would only like to point out that the problems that might arise in the organisation and functioning of Slovenian navigation services due to the adoption of these two ratifications cannot possibly be the fault of a possible national assembly or legislative body, as we have warned in due time. In particular, we expect these services to be successfully integrated into Eurocontrol, to provide funds, to provide facilities that will be shared and, of course, will also harmonise human resources needs that are likely to be somewhat smaller in Slovenia's navigation service, as certain tasks will of course be carried out for us also by Eurocontrol. I wish them somehow, I will say, judgment and success in solving problems that we think would not have occurred if we had ratified these protocols earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u309	No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. There is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving to third reading. I'm asking for your attention, because then someone says they can't hear me, maybe because of too much noise in the hall. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to the third reading - this is the decision on the bill. We can decide. We vote on the bill. 64 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 16. We have a defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. There are no debaters, there are no amendments, there is no debate on the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their voice? We decide on the bill. 56 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The law was passed. This concludes this agenda item. At 17. WE HAVE A DETAILED PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL FOR THE CONFORMATION OF THE EUROCONTROL INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON COOPERATION FOR THE SAFETY OF AIR VESSELS OF 13. Decembra 1990. Who wants to explain their vote before the final decision on the bill is made? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to a decision on the bill. We decide on the bill. 61 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're at 18. Agenda items - When defending the draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of the International Convention on the Simplification and Consolidation of Customs Procedures. Can we decide on a bill if no one wants to explain their vote? [[Yeah.]] We're voting on the law. 58 present, 52 for and none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're at 19. POINTS OF THE DAY LINE - This is when defending the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Bulgaria on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes. Can we move on to a decision on the bill if there's nothing he wants to explain to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We're moving to the vote. We decide on a proposal for a law on ratification. Present 57, 52 for, no one against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're at 20. POINTS OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION, THIS IS FINLAND’S PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody.) We're voting. We're voting on the law. May I have your attention, please? I wouldn't want to let anyone go if he signed up for the word, but I can only find out if there's peace in the hall. 56 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At 21. We have a discussion of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income tax and property tax We can go to a vote on the law if no one wants to explain the vote. [[Yeah.]] We're voting. We're in the middle of deciding the law. 57 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. We still have a few choices. We're at 22. OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UK ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION AND COOPERATION COOPERATION COOPERATION Can we move on to a decision? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 59 present, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. At the following time, 23. POINTS OF THE DAY WE HAVE A CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF TAYLAND ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION AND THE PREVENTION OF TAX IN CONTRIBUTIONS WITH REVENUE Anybody want a word to explain their voice? We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 59 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. We now have a decision on four decisions to confirm the officially consolidated texts of the laws, item 37 of the agenda. Please note that there would be no misunderstandings in individual decisions. We'll do it in a row. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the craftsmen's law shall be confirmed. We're voting. We are voting on the approval of the official consolidated text of the craft law. This official text was confirmed by the National Assembly. 58 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Then we have a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Law on Administrative Fees. We're voting. Attending 60, 54 for and no one against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] We have confirmed this purified text. We have two more decisions like this. First, to confirm the official consolidated text of the law on enforcement and insurance. We're voting. Present 60, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] This is accepted. Finally, the proposal concludes that the text of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament should be formally revised. We're voting. Present 60, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Nobody.]] This officially purified text is adopted. This concludes this agenda item and ends the meeting of the assembly by tomorrow. The Internal Policy Committee will meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the big salon. I hereby conclude this meeting and thank everyone for their cooperation. Tomorrow we continue the work of the assembly at 10 a.m. They're threatening the evening as long as there's left.
