ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Good-bye! I respectfully invite those in the lobby or in the offices of the National Assembly to join us. There are not many excuses, only three, these are colleagues of Chebulj, Peterle and Fabjan, because of other obligations today they cannot cooperate with us. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Mag to this meeting, which I convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On agenda items 1 and 32, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidates and candidates for ministers at agenda item 32, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic at item 33, as well as the representative of the Council of Justice. All those who are already present and who will be present at the work of the National Assembly, once again, I warmly welcome you. We will now move on to the establishment of the agenda and then to a rather difficult work of the National Assembly this week, within the framework of the 43rd extraordinary meeting. The draft agenda shall be drawn up in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal and enlargement, so that the Council of State may decide on the agenda. Before this, I ask you to review the operation of your voting devices. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices? I understand that. We decide on the agenda. We're voting. 53 present, 41 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] The agenda is adopted. So we can start our 43rd extraordinary session. We'll move on to 32. It's on the government list of candidates for the appointment of ministers in the government of the Republic of Slovenia. And here we have one problem or challenge, if we so properly name the thing that is before us, and this is the fact that we have alongside the labour body rapporteurs, in addition to the representatives of all parliamentary groups who wish to present their views, 55 other colleagues and colleagues reported. The debate is not limited. If there is no decision to limit the debate, it is impossible to predict when the end of this agenda item will be. However, we all probably agree that, after comprehensive treatments have been carried out in front of the working bodies, it is reasonable to limit this debate in some reasonable way in the national assembly itself before the decision is taken. Under the rules of procedure, under the new Rules of Procedure, the President does not have the opportunity to directly ask the National Assembly whether he agrees to limit the debate, but should do so to the College of the President of the National Assembly. Are the colleagues representatives, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, for us to briefly exchange positions in the "chemical" regarding time limitation? No, no, no. You are opposed to limiting time in any way. Then let me just find out once again, please look, then let me just find out, colleagues and colleagues, that there would be no misunderstandings, we have a performance by the Prime Minister, we have a performance by the rapporteurs of the working bodies, representatives of the working groups, then Members and Members, in between, ministers and ministers or candidates and candidates for these positions, and perhaps the Prime Minister and final decision. This could get a lot carried away. Well, it was, as I understand it, now the decision of the house and we'll be at it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] No, that's what college should accept. I propose that we start the meeting and not waste time because it has been clearly stated that it does not agree to a time limit. This has been said by members of the opposition. But we didn't decide to go to college. I was hoping he'd take over. I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[...]] We'll get to the debates. I will, of course, invite the Prime Minister and ministers and ministers and, of course, candidates for these positions to the Chamber first. President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Mr. Anton Rop proposed to the National Assembly 5.4. the Minister of Economy, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, for a Minister without a portfolio in charge of European affairs, mag. Milan Martin Squeakle. On 9.4. that same year, he proposed that he appoint as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Milan Pogačnik, Minister of Transport Dr Mark Pavliho, Minister of Justice Mrs Zdenko Cerar. By letter of 16. 4. 2004 the Prime Minister proposed that all proposals be treated as a single sheet. Now, I'm going to ask that the Prime Minister mag. Anton Rop - I will ask him to explain what remains behind the speaker's stage. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, candidates, as you know, have already presented themselves to their home working bodies and have responded to questions raised by members of committees or commissions. It follows from the opinions of the home work bodies that the presentations of all candidates were appropriate. The Chairman of the Magnificent Government. You have the floor to present the candidate for Minister and Minister in your government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished assembly! I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to confirm the list of candidates for the appointment of new ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to begin by thanking former ministers Dr. Tei Petrin, Mr. Jakob Presecnik, mag. Ivan Biszak, mag. France Booth and Dr. Janez Potočnik for the work done in their mandate. The tasks entrusted to them were not simple. Adapting and meeting the conditions for entry into the European Union and adapting the legal order and systems at home required a great deal of energy, capacity and readiness to achieve these objectives. It is also thanks to them that we enter the European Union in eleven days, as the best-prepared country among the acceding countries. I respect their personal decisions to go to other jobs or to stop working as ministers. For the new ministers in these areas, I propose candidates whom I believe can successfully continue their work during this crucial period ahead of us. Slovenia is ahead of important tasks. We are entering the European Union, and the next months will be crucial for the successful entry into ERM2 and for the successful integration and operation of the Union. We must therefore act effectively and perform all the necessary tasks. We have to do these tasks, and we will do them. Done for the good of Slovenia, its citizens and its citizens. As Prime Minister, I therefore propose candidates for whom I believe that with their expertise and experience they can successfully carry out their tasks. With effect from 1 May 2004, we become a member of the Union with all rights and obligations. Up to now, adaptation to European rules will be enhanced by the active co-creation of rules and policies at European level. In doing so, Slovenia will follow the principles of responsible compliance with the obligations of membership, taking into account also its interest and constructive cooperation between Member States. Our country is considered among all ten acceding countries to be best prepared for membership in the European Union. Nevertheless, the extensive process of adaptation by entry is far from being completed. After entry, we must continue to adapt legislation to the European legal order in areas where transitional periods have been agreed in the negotiation process. In the areas of economic and monetary union and so-called Schengen acquis. The following priority areas are crucial for successful integration into the European Union and for the successful realization of our national interests: effective entry into the European Union, the ERM2, the new financial perspective, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and policies towards the Western Balkans and the new neighbourhood. This year is also an important year for the European Union. Ten new members will be accepted by each other this year. A new European Parliament will be elected and a new European Commission appointed. Some Amsterdam treaties and treaties relating to the functioning of the institutions of the enlarged Union will be in force. The Intergovernmental Conference will continue negotiations on a constitutional treaty for Europe. This is expected to be adopted at the June session at the latest in accordance with the March conclusions of the European Council. Following the formal entry, both the acceding countries and the Member States so far will have a period of adjustment to the way in which the enlarged European Union operates. By the end of the year, the negotiation process with two candidate countries, Bulgaria and Romania should also be completed. The publication of the Communication from the Commission in February 2004 has launched a process that will be one of the most important for both the current and the new members over the next two years. This is a negotiation, the adoption of a new financial perspective for the post-2006 period. On the basis of the discussions, the Commission will present in July the first set of legislative proposals envisaged for the next financial period. The political consensus on the fundamental principles and guidelines of the next financial perspective is to be adopted by the end of 2004 with a view to reaching a political agreement at the June 2005 European Council. This would allow the financial perspective and the relevant legislation to be adopted for its implementation by the end of 2005, and a close timeframe for the preparation and adoption of the following financial perspectives is needed for timely preparation for the European Union's novel programmes and for the smooth adoption of the 2007 budget. This year, special attention is paid to assessing the achievement of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. At the Spring European Council, we focused our attention on two parts of the strategy in which the European Union is lagging behind its objectives: sustainable development and the creation of new and better jobs. As a full member, Slovenia will decide on the adoption of a new EU acquis. For the successful representation of its interests, Slovenia has established a system of government coordination of European affairs. A law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly on European affairs has also been adopted. As of 1 May 2004, we will upgrade our cooperation in the working bodies of the European Union with the right to vote. The priorities of Slovenia in 2004 are in line with the priorities of the European Union. Our immediate and active cooperation and decision-making will be necessary in the area of the preparation of acts already under consideration in the European Union or expected to be dealt with in the course of the year. After entry, Slovenia will focus mainly on agriculture, cohesion policy, employment and social policy, transport, telecommunications and information society services, the adoption of a directive on services, changes to the customs code of the Community, the promotion of faster and direct participation by the judicial authorities of the Member States of the European Union in the fight against organised crime and terrorism and the establishment of a common asylum and immigration policy and border security measures, the prevention of illegal entry into the European Union, trafficking in human beings and organised crime and terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listed some of the key tasks that await us as soon as we enter the European Union. There are few, and there are also a number of important tasks at home, which will depend on the further development of Slovenia, the success of economic development and the higher quality of life. With the objectives set by the programme for effective entry into the European Union and not least by the budgetary memorandum, we are looking forward to further implementation of the indexation measures in agreement with the social partners and in accordance with the social agreement, the implementation of the inflation reduction plan in the policy area of regulated prices, the extension of interest rates, the final implementation of the tax reform and the gradual reduction of the structural public financial deficit. All this with the aim of entering the ERM 2 mechanism of exchange in this year and taking over the euro as our currency in early 2007. Also among our priorities is the early start of effective absorption of resources from the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund, the guarantee part of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund and the Schengen resource. Only our ability to draw on those funds effectively will it depend on whether Slovenia will also be actually a net beneficiary of the European budget in the period until the end of 2006. The well-respected choir! The tasks I have listed require the effective work of the Government, the National Assembly and all the institutions involved. It requires each of us to know at these crucial moments to go through narrow party interests and to take Slovenia on the path of successful integration and further development in the common European market for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. Today you will vote on four new ministers and ministers: Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Zdenki Cerar, Dr. Milan Pogačnik and Dr. Mark Pavlich. All candidates for ministers and candidates for the Minister have successfully delivered a presentation in the National Assembly. Each of them joins the government team with ambitious goals and all professional responsibility. They enter the government at a time when Slovenia has achieved important political goals, during a period which is crucial for us to successfully implement, implement and build on these goals in a better life and new opportunities and opportunities for all citizens and citizens. I see this moment as an opportunity to continue with the project that we have already set ourselves on the eve of independence, which we have been taking care of in the government all these years, with a project of balanced and stable development. The objectives are clear: to complete Slovenia's integration with the European Union, to continue restructuring the economy, to maintain an effective social state and to ensure our further development in an enlarged Europe. I also pursued these objectives by selecting candidates for ministers and ministers. This is a matter of experts who are not only willing but also capable of achieving these goals. This is also confirmed by the support received on the parental committees. I am sure that my decision for the ministers I propose will show as ministers who are competent experts and well know the areas of action of the ministries. They realize that they will not have the first hundred days of peace in the government, but will begin their work on the first day. That's why I chose strong personalities with professional authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that you fully support the list of ministers and ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I now ask the rapporteurs of the home work bodies who have heard the candidate for the minister and the candidates for ministers, do they wish to report before the national assembly? Which one? Nobody? [[Yeah.]] Please, buddy Kacin first. Please, you have the floor on behalf of the Committee on the Economy. Please, Comrade Kavčič, on behalf of the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister, Ministerial candidates, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy has considered the proposal for a Minister's candidate, Dr Matey Lahovnik.The members of the Committee on the Economy have rightly expected to be informed of the candidate's views, both macroeconomicly and microeconomicly, and the candidate has presented his views thoroughly in his presentation both on the main macroeconomic issues and on some more entrepreneurially-based micro-level issues. He highlighted the importance of industrial policy and the promotion of technological restructuring, particularly from the perspective of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, and consequently the need for the Ministry of Economy to cooperate intensively with the Ministry of Finance. Due to the most successful achievement of convergence criteria and entry into ERM 2. In doing so, he drew attention to those positive achievements of the Slovenian economy, such as the simultaneous growth of both productivity and employment in 2000. He also pointed out, of course, the problems facing the Slovenian economy. In particular, the lack of satisfactory technological growth and higher added value to the employee, particularly in industries such as textile, leather and wood industries. It also assessed the slow process of restructuring food-processing activities. However, it highlighted an important positive situation that Slovenia is reducing its developmental backlog in comparison to, say, Austria, Italy, Belgium and Denmark. According to the candidate, Slovenia will have to significantly increase the share of innovative companies in the economy. In this regard, the Minister's candidate has also devoted considerable time to presenting his views on the long-term technology restructuring strategy. He estimated that it was very important to amend the law on higher education, from the perspective of internationalisation of study programmes and lecturers on the basis of the Bologna Declaration. He also highlighted the importance of appropriate tax legislation to play its role in further strengthening the enabling environment for entrepreneurship. Members and members were able to find that the candidate has sufficiently presented his long-term vision, as well as the priority measures to be taken in the first period of his term of office, is said, and also until the end of this government's term of office. These were mainly two areas. I know the first area. [[?]] , everything is said in one place, which is extremely important for successful establishment and business, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and operational measures in promoting foreign and direct investment. In addition to its macro-economic views and experience, the candidate also presented some of his more concrete experiences from micro-economic projects and studies, so that he successfully responded to a number of questions raised, including specific ones, to current specific economic issues At the conclusion of the presentation, the Economic Committee adopted, by nine votes in favour and three against, a decision which considers that the presentation of the views and views of Dr Matei Lahovnik, the candidate for Minister of Economy, was appropriate from the Ministry of Economy's work area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Blaž Kavčič. This was the report of the Committee on the Economy. The report of the Commission on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Kacin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Prime Minister, ministers, candidates and candidates! The Commission for European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy met together. In his opening presentation, Mr Milan Martin Cvikl, a candidate for a Minister without a director in charge of European affairs, explained the reasons for his candidacy. He presented the vision of the Republic of Slovenia in the enlarged European Union, presented the basic tasks and objectives of the government service of the Republic of Slovenia for European affairs. He presented a plan of action on the position of minister and assessed the importance and role of the Minister for European Affairs in Slovenia under the conditions of membership in the European Union. The position of the Minister for European Affairs understands the role of co-ordinator and co-founder of the positions of individual departments in the positions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and through the National Assembly in the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. He further presented the basic tasks and objectives of the Minister and the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. He highlighted the coordination and co-forming of the positions or programmes, activities and tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which can contribute to the realization of the vision of Slovenia as the most effective economic region in the European Union. The entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to enforce Slovenia in Europe and to enforce European commitments at home. The tasks of the Minister for European Affairs and Services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs, as set out in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the organisation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs, have been brought together into three main groups: coordination of European affairs, supervision of European affairs and reporting and care for cooperation between the various institutions in the field of European affairs. It has divided the working obligations of the Minister for European Affairs before and after joining the European Union into final activities, ongoing and recurrent activities and activities in progress or changing activities to improve coordination and new activities. He noted that the task of the Minister and the Government for European Affairs was also to participate in the activities relating to the Convention on the Future of Europe and the Intergovernmental Conference in connection with the draft Constitutional Treaty for Europe. The Minister's candidate answered most of the questions raised and informed the members of the Commission and the Committee that he could not answer all the questions raised because his presentation was based solely on publicly available documents. Slovenia sees it as the most effective economic region in an enlarged Europe. It uses the term "region" as a wider national region or a wider area as an important part of the European Union. Slovenia has carried out three transitions, from the socialist market economy, from the Republic to the national economy and from the former Yugoslavia to the European Union. Our economy is expanding into a wider economic region. The EESC believes that setting a strategy for further development must first set objectives; the objectives set are followed by the conditions under which these objectives need to be acted upon in order to achieve them. These certainly include economic and environmental policies, the long-term sustainable public financial situation and the effective functioning of the whole public administration. However, appropriate parafiscal institutions and funds will need to be adequately reformed in the coming years in order to contribute to the realization of the vision of the most efficient economic region. With regard to the draft Constitutional Treaty for Europe, it considers it necessary to discuss it and to insist on it somewhere else in the negotiations. It is necessary to ask whether the draft allows the enlarged European Union to act as an efficient economy. He further expressed the belief that Slovenia will play an important role as of 1 May 2004 in the springboard for the countries of South-Eastern Europe that want to become members of the European Union. With regard to Macedonia's designation, the candidate considered that the constitutional name of the Republic of Macedonia should be respected and that is why Slovenia is doing the right thing by insisting on that name. With regard to Croatia, he felt that he must meet all the criteria for accession to the European Union, and we can help her with different programmes at the approximation stage, including the Phare programme. It also supports the ambitions of Slovenia to obtain the seat of the agency for the external Schengen border. He has already advocated the acquisition of similar agencies and institutions in the past. Among other things, he has been involved in the establishment of an international mine action fund and assistance fund for mine victims. However, as regards the loss of the enlargement cost item in the new EU financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, he said that the financial perspective is an indicative programme. It is essential that specific programmes, such as sustainable economic growth, cohesion, agriculture, include those items that are necessary to keep the European Union expanding. With regard to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, he stressed the horizontal review in the government, including all ministries to carry out analyses on whether anything else can be done in this area in addition to tax incentives. The candidate felt that it was more important to have a skilled workforce than to have a cheaper workforce. The remaining net recipient of funds in the European Union depends on Slovenia's ability and effectiveness, so this is the task of all resources. In this regard, it is particularly important that, in the coming months, both state institutions and municipalities, development agencies and other institutions be adequately prepared to participate in the European Union’s development programmes. With regard to its role as coordinator after May 1st, the candidate was of the opinion that it would be important, above all, to cooperate well with all government departments. The preservation of the term 'government service for European affairs' is more appropriate in this respect than the term'ministery', since it is horizontal action, coordination between departments, at the discretion of the Prime Minister. Under this mandate, in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it also sees a delimitation of powers between the UNSCR and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, among which the candidate believes that appropriate and good cooperation will take place in the future. As regards cooperation with KEZ and the PSC, he stressed that it would take place in accordance with the law adopted. On the role and position of national minorities and on strengthening the position of Slovenian civil society in the new EU membership frameworks, the candidate was of the opinion that these are the tasks that remain ahead of him and in the future work of the Government for European Affairs and Slovenia as members of the European Union. After the discussion, we voted separately. The European Affairs Commission has contributed 5 votes in favour and 2 against and has thus adopted a decision: the European Affairs Commission considers that the presentation of the views and views of the candidate for a minister without a portfolio in charge of European affairs has been mags. Exercise is appropriate. The members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy, however, decided by 14 votes in favour and only 2 against that the Committee on Foreign Policy considered that the presentation of the views and views of the candidate for a Minister without a portfolio in charge of European affairs was mags. Exercise is appropriate. Since I am speaking on behalf of the Commission and the Committee on Foreign Policy, I would like to end by thanking the Prime Minister for such a quality human resources proposal and stressing in particular that, unlike the President of the European Affairs Commission, I think this is a great and well-prepared candidate who deserves the broadest support in voting and working in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has considered the proposal of the Prime Minister for the Minister of Agriculture. Mag. Kramberger will now report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministers, Candidates and Candidates for Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! At its extraordinary meeting, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food held an interview with the candidate for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Prof. Dr. Milan Pogačnik. After an extensive presentation of the candidate, in which he presented his personal work and also his views on the management of the department, i.e. the extensive work to be done in the area of agriculture, forestry and nutrition, the candidate received a large number of questions on the Committee, in particular as regards the current agricultural policy following the entry into the European Union. The candidate answered these questions and, among other things, stressed the desire to cooperate, particularly with civil society, in particular with the agri-agricultural chamber, trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce, and also to cooperate more frequently with the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly. The Committee then voted in favour of 9 votes in favour and 3 against that presentation or that the views of the candidate on the management of this challenging resource were appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much to Mr President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, Comrade Vice-President Weber will present the report of this Committee, which has considered the proposal of the Prime Minister for a new candidate for this department. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! At its 23rd urgent meeting on 16 April 2004, Dr. Marko Pavliha, proposed for Minister of Transport, presented himself to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure and Environment and answered questions raised by members and members of the Committee. The proposed candidate for the Minister of Transport presented in the introduction the importance of transport as one of the key economic activities, the impact of transport and freight flows on the Slovenian economy, the strategic objectives of the European Union's transport policy and the legal order of the European Union in the field of transport. Following the presentation, the candidate paid particular attention to the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which requires the identification of the development of the transport sector and, on this basis, to provide for the role of the Republic of Slovenia in the relations in which the State is involved. The main orientations of transport policy are ensuring mobility of the population, satisfactory economic supply, transport infrastructure, transport safety and environmental protection. These were the candidates' remarks. In the area of ensuring mobility, it is necessary to reduce the use of individual motor vehicles and to shift passengers mainly to public rail, bus and maritime transport. It will be necessary to establish intermodality in freight transport and the logistical design of services in the supply of the economy as an effective basis for quality services. Roads will need to be unloaded and, to the greatest extent possible, the cargo will be diverted to other forms of freight transport that are more environmentally friendly. In the field of road, transport infrastructure, it is necessary to ensure the continuation of the implementation of Phase A of the motorway programme and, in the context of the negotiation of a contractual relationship with the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004, to coordinate the way in which to calculate the toll in the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the rules of the European Union. The candidate further touched on the railway sector, which, according to some data, has so far been revised to only 12% with regard to the 1996 national rail infrastructure development programme adopted, and also announced some priorities. This should have the priority of building the second track of Divača-Koper and updating and electrifying the Ljubljana-Hodoš line by 2012. In the maritime field, it is also necessary to regulate the concessional relationship between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Luka Koper in 2004 with the adoption of decisions on the development programmes of Luke, including in the light of the creation of the so-called Motorway of the Sea. In the aviation sector, the airport development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which falls within the framework of the national aviation development programme, will define the development of key airports with an emphasis, of course, on the Ljubljana airport. In the area of transport safety, too, the candidate presented the measures that would have to be introduced in order to, of course, reduce the number of dead in all transport flows and, of course, to further address environmental protection as an essential element of European transport policy. Motorised transport contributes more than a quarter of carbon monoxide emissions. In the future, it would be imperative to divert the cargo to the railways as much as possible. Following the presentation of all these areas, he also responded to questions from members and members of the Committee and responded to all questions to a large extent, and the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considers that the presentation of the views and views of the Transport Minister's candidate Dr Mark Pavliha on issues and policies in the Ministry of Transport's field of work was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Weber, rapporteur of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. The Internal Policy Committee has considered the Prime Minister's proposal for a new Justice Minister, Mrs Zdenko Cerar. A report on the Committee's decision will be made by the chairman of the Committee. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Good-bye, everybody! In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure, when the Prime Minister proposes a candidate for a minister, a mother's working body - and in this case it is an internal policy committee - does the so-called 'hearing', it is a little better to hear, otherwise it listens to the candidate's presentation, in which case Mrs Cerarje's candidate. The candidate shall have the opportunity to answer the questions and explain his presentation further. The opinion before you is just a brief one, and by the indents it recorded the event in this session, which lasted for several hours. In the introduction, the candidate first said why she was actually agreeing to her candidacy. Based on her long professional career and experience and knowledge, both in the administrative and judicial fields, she could thus, I think, work successfully as a minister. And her work so far will enable her to immediately stop work in this area, which is already running in some way, this has been highlighted. The Law on Unjust Procedure, which will shortly precede us, had in mind the amendment of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions relating to the health insurance of prisoners and detainees, the law on pardon, the amendment of the law on judicial service, the State Prosecutor's Office, the amendment of the law on state defence, the amendment of the law on notariat, the regulation of the government on the participation of the State Prosecutor's Office and the police in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences, the rules on the management of the land book, the order and the state prosecution order, the implementation of the new law on offences in practice. However, legal work, which is the case, should be motivated in a way that ensures that procedures are as short as possible, with a higher reward for short-term proceedings. It also stressed that it is one of the fundamental tasks for all those involved in any way in this area, to abolish judicial backlogs, as late justice is a injustice. In particular, it says that this would be done in a way that, by operational coordination of all judicial institutions, by introducing more flexible working time into the hearing room, therefore, it is necessary to shorten the path of the judicial file and thus achieve greater efficiency in the work of the courts. In her view, it is necessary to ensure greater mobility of judges and other judicial staff and mobility in the division of judicial files, to improve the discipline of all parties in the proceedings, to reduce the flexibility in the assessment of the competence and completeness of the applications, to limit the case-law of the first and second stages and to leave it mainly to the role of legal guidance and professional support to lower courts, to the importance of the supervisory role of supervisors in matters of urgency, regularity and legality of the resolution of cases. The Court of Justice needs to be fully informed and the motivation of the judicial staff must be achieved, in particular by coordination between the chairpersons of all judicial institutions. Of course, he also believes that this is possible by presenting to the public the work of the judicial institutions in a positive light. Following her presentation, she presented some of her views on what MEPs and Members had asked her individual questions. For example, there have been a lot of questions about specific cases, such as the work of the candidate as the Attorney General, and what her view is now in political waters, after the work of the state prosecutors of some individual cases, such as SIB, Orion, Zbilijski Gaj, Elan, concerning journalist Petka, Ranc, Udba-net affair, operating tables at the clinical centre, post-war killings, cases of individual Members and mayors, then individual human resources solutions in the prosecution, the Glavar, Fischer, Železnik case, and the current political developments around her candidacy. So I have in mind, or we had a letter from Foreign Minister Ruple. It must be said that she has answered all the questions very precisely and correctly. Then it must also be said that it has also identified itself on specific issues of a systemic nature, namely approaches to ensuring the timely implementation of the new offence law, which is optimistic and considers that all the competent services are already on the road to the law being put into force, as envisaged, in 2005. Then the amendment of the law on the general administrative procedure relating to notaries, in which the candidate agrees that simple certifications are carried out by the administrative authorities instead of notaries, with regard to over-the-counter arrangements. The suspension, i.e. with regard to the termination of the permanent term of office of judges, which, as she said, does not agree, because she considers that this would preclude the independent work of judges; with regard to the intervention of the Constitutional Court in the legislative branch of power, namely, a significant problem with the deleted; with regard to the centralisation and decentralisation of the judiciary in our country, which advocates a medium-term path that can be achieved through the organisation of the work; with regard to the need for managerial knowledge within the judicial branch of authority, where the candidate considers it necessary to ensure it; with regard to judicial delays in the field of enforcement, which he considers to be a major problem of small, plausible matters in the execution, these are executions on the basis of a credible charter, and that a solution should be sought in the direction of judicial proceedings with such matters; with regard to improving cooperation between the police and the prosecution; and with regard to the unreasonable nature of the criminalisation of the case, which the case law has been concluded. After a discussion which had actually very satisfied the vast majority of the members of the Committee, the Committee voted and considered that its presentation was appropriate. In favour of such a proposal, 12 members and 5 members voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague, Chairman of the Lavrinc Committee. With your presentation of the position of the committee responsible, we have concluded the reports of all the committees that have conducted the hearings of the minister and the ministers. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be given the floor. First of all, he will be given the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group's colleague mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-welcome members of the government, candidates for ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that in the Group we oppose the appointment of ministers or the election of ministers in the package, because we believe that there is too much trade involved in this. Why? Because perhaps one of the candidates would have received such or other support from the MPs of the National Assembly, given the need to speak about all of them, there will probably be more of these objections. It is precisely because of such a procedure for the appointment of ministers or election that the parliamentary group will not give its support. That's why she won't support this package either. The mandate proposed candidates who have shown themselves to be controversial, under-competent or under-experienced in the conduct of demanding public tasks and functions in the current operation, in particular in terms of taking up obligations just before the end of the mandate. Given that it is actually less than half a year before the end of its term of office, these ministers will only be operators of ongoing business. Therefore, such tasks and functions should be performed by people with great experience, knowledge of the fields, good organisers and people with a sense of law and public responsibility; there is obviously no candidate with such characteristics. It is clear, therefore, that the mandate holder for the appointment of the team did not have sufficient experts, so he decided for those offered to him by another power centre, informal power in terms of political appropriateness. The question of his sovereignty is therefore raised in decisions. Let's go in one order. Regarding the candidate for the Ministry of Transport: In his presentation, Dr Pavliha gave some strategic guidance in the field of transport, infrastructure, but these ideas can only remain as ideas, because they are not implemented, especially in such a short period. We asked him many specific questions, and the answers were not clear enough. As the government's mandate expires, the problems of railways, motorways, airports and other things remain unresolved and this is a pressing issue. The question is, what about openness or our access to the open sea? We didn't get a clear answer. The question of the privatisation of railways, what should remain in state hands and what should be privatised in order to ensure railway transport at a decent level. We didn't get the right answers to that. We have not learned anything decisive and clear about the second track in Primorska, the railway connection in Posoča, the airport in Maribor, the arrangements of Slovenian railways in Croatia, which are the subject of success, nor has it been defined to the route of the fifth corridor and the wing against Graz, toll stations on the highway and anything else. When the mandate expires, it is necessary to have clear answers to such key questions of the Slovenian economy, Slovenian success. This area is now poorly regulated. Slovenian railways are in a catastrophic state. At the time of the referendum, it was reported to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that the country would save and provide 150 or 160 billion tolars if they spoke positively of the referendum. Now he thinks the country with five billion to make a pre-election move, and that from the budget, the 160 or 150 billion is nowhere. And some short-term loans will need to be changed. However, the complete issue of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railway Holding remains open, especially when we look at what the strategy is or what is indicated in this programme, what the scope of business is in all segments of passenger transport and infrastructure. In the presentation, the candidate Cerarjev for the Justice Ministry received criticism of her previous performance as Attorney General. This is understandable because the area of the prosecution is well connected with the work of the courts and the only good conduct of the prosecution's business and the undisputed legal exercise of the judicial function can constitute a guarantee for Slovenia to become a truly legal state. This, unfortunately, is not in Slovenia. The area of justice is probably the most problematic with large judicial backlogs and criticisms at the work of judges. Judges are underlying in judgment, in judgment, and in many administrative matters. Instead of being held in custody or in prison, offenders are free to walk and continue with crimes, especially economic crime is not prosecuted. Some very serious cases got stuck in the prosecutions to mention the SIB bank, Elan, a beating by journalist Petka, well, that would not say that "glih" is an economic crime, but it is related to the conduct of economic crime, which, of course, was paid by a purely third party who wanted to write about it and public disclosure of the dirty stories of the property process. Sicura, Green Gaj and others, not to mention them, of whom the citizens have heard much. The candidate responded quickly and decisively to Minister Rupl when he decided, without a doubt, to provide education for diplomats with which to increase the quality of the offer of educational programmes; the proceedings continued. Persecution of economic crime is one of the weakest points of law and order in Slovenia. Obviously, it's not a coincidence that the crime police have been deliberately neglected for years. Yes, nothing would have been done to prosecute this crime, indicating the number of charges filed and successfully carried out. Let's see, for example, Mr Kos's statement on the Tarc show, on February 27, 2003, I quote Dragos Kos when he was the head of the economic crime department: "My boss came to my office and ordered me not to deal with privatisation until privatisation is over." This is the most important saying about how economic crime is being pursued in Slovenia. So you're wondering, in fact, that we have only one closed procedure from the start of ownership. I think she was still acting as prosecutor at the time, Mrs Brezigareva. Everything else is unfinished, key economic crime. A handful of transitional tycoons, which began to gather in a bed, produced assets in dispute, estimated at about 400 billion tolars. Instead of starting against some who have clearly acquired this property in a controversial way, prosecution procedures are found in the government's proposals in tax legislation to even exempt them from capital tax payments, while ordinary other citizens should pay it. This was a debate in the law on corporate tax. Thus, after three years, this person was not to be taxed on profits. The report of the Privatisation Supervisory Agency states that the damage to state property of more than 80 billion tolars has not happened what citizens expected. The State Advocate has unequivocally criticised the inappropriate conduct of law enforcement authorities in these cases, because the charges have not been brought, despite the fact that the State authorities have provided all the required audit documentation, which would certainly be a good basis for law enforcement authorities. That didn't happen. Therefore, the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly has adopted a decision on the work of the Attorney General in these cases to be made by the Government and to decide on its responsibility. As we are aware, the government has not decided on this; it is obvious that the prime minister is mag. Robbery avoided it. Last but not least, we can find out the truth of how we citizens have been informed that complaints against certain war crimes and crimes will be filed after the end of the war, so those who never get older. As I am aware, on the basis of the report, no charges were filed. Mr Lahovnik, a candidate for an economic minister, was unable to answer the specific questions concerning Elan's complication, where the state has co-invested or provided almost 8 billion state money. This is a serious crucial issue, a legal test, a test of how public services provide security or no damage to state property. After all, experts have found that a large part of this state subsidy went directly to pay off the awards to those five managers; they have earned more than 2 billion money. The candidate did not answer the question about the disputed defence of property of BTC, which is one of the embittered cases in our disputed legislation, which we opposed in Novi Slovenija, securities legislation and company law. It is a strengthening of the route of final tycunization of Slovenia. Dr Milan Pogačnik, a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, failed to comment on the readiness of the agricultural sector to join the European Union, in particular in terms of the absorption capacity of our institutions to draw funds for our agriculture and the environment. This is a very important issue after May 1st, because this area will be much more subject to competitiveness as a result of the change in legislation, and we may face difficult cases and the country must provide for appropriate compensatory measures, including subsidies to be received from the European Union or from the European Union. As regards agricultural land, it has not been possible to determine how much of this property and what benefits the State should have from it in any way or in any other way. At the end of all the hearings, we can see that the management of economic, social and financial agricultural and transport policies will not improve, so we cannot expect citizens to improve and solve problems, but to continue the same story. And when we enter the European Union, we should be even more aware of that. The state of Slovenia will have to prove itself much more if it wants and wants and manages to consolidate itself in this competitive space. No one's gonna help us like this if we're not alone with determination, knowledge, then it's gonna be bad. And what's been going on in Slovenia lately is certainly not good. We will not support the candidates for ministers in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. This was the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mr Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please, Comrade Janša, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, candidate and candidate for Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today we decide to appoint almost a third of the government, two months before the elections to the European Parliament and the bad or good five months before the elections to the National Assembly. When the ruling coalition rejected proposals to hold elections to the European Parliament and to the National Assembly in June today, we are engaged in a reconstruction of a third of the government several months before the end of the mandate. I wouldn't go into the circumstances that made this happen now, but the fact is, in some normal, stable democracies, it's not normal. In fact, it would now be necessary to narrow down the objectives of doing what is still possible to be done by the end of the term of office. At the beginning of this term, the coalition we have, which has assumed responsibility for managing the country, has promised much. If we read this coalition contract today, it's read as a long list of good wishes, not even the bad half of things can be ruled out to be done. Instead of making the last effort here to make at least the main promises come true, we are engaged or the ruling coalition, an official coalition dealing with the reconstruction of its own government. We don't think this is good for Slovenia. The governors of the country today forget that when, after the elections, they formed a majority coalition and took power in that country, not only did they take over or received in their hands not only rights but also duties. They forget responsibility and an oath to work for the well-being of all and not just for their own. The situation that we have now when we have proposals on the table that they do not agree with in the government themselves, the Prime Minister is making stability a normal operation. If this is stability and normal operation, then we ask what instability is and how it works. The fact is that mathematically it is not a government crisis in which the government would lose the theoretical majority or majority support in the National Assembly. Customers who have remained in the disgruntled coalition still have a mathematical enough vote to make decisions by a simple majority. However, the final vote shows that proposals which are publicly supported by all government parties or by government parties who are overcoming enough votes to vote are falling. On the last four proposals by the President of the State, three were not supported by a secret vote. Even the fourth person to receive minimal support got it by the hair. One of these candidates, who has not received the support of the coalition government in this last vote, is being re- proposed today. This means that it does not count as a non-essential policy in the parliamentary groups, or that the choice of possible candidates is so limited that it is once again proposed by someone who has not already received the confidence of those who should choose today. Either way, as regards the assessment of the situation, whether it is a reflection of one's normality and stability or not, we are diverging. Maybe it doesn't even matter. The Prime Minister claims that everything is normal, asking Slovenian citizens and citizens, voters and voters in these days what they are proposing to him to do in the next ten years, is apparently still counting on the next ten years of rule. We are wondering, by the way, how can a party that has shown more than 200 million losses in last year's balance sheet now go into an action that is pre-electionary, which costs 20 million, who will pay for it. Or perhaps the answer to this question is not hidden in those lost complaints in Mr Ironman's closet and so on. A lot of questions are being asked. However, the decision to vote on the proposed list of ministers in the package has fallen to make it possible, regardless of whether you agree with one, and with the other you do not agree to accept a mathematical environment. I don't know what that would be like. So the list can be supported or not. And that, in our opinion, is not good. On the other hand, it has been clear here, today and even in previous presentations by candidates and candidates, that the names that are able to be taken over immediately are to continue immediately the work that has been done so far, to do even better than we have heard in some of the presentations, and that this is something that this country will not take any productive time to carry out routine tasks and to create what the ministries must do at that time. We have proposed that, at the time when the largest government party has decided to push one of the smaller parties from the coalition to take over for these few months the functions of ministers by state secretaries, who have replaced ministers more or less so far in these places, so that in this case they would not object to getting one, at least one-third, transitional government that would normally complete the things that have been started. This proposal has not been taken seriously. Political names are proposed, recognizable. More or less so far in a contractual or other relationship with the government. In any event, the names that have so far passed through the various government bodies of appointments, layout and awards more than ten times, some even substantially more. And of course it's nothing new. What's new is what we heard in the candidates' presentations, there's a stop here. In these presentations we have heard many things that are usually promised at the beginning of the mandate. Many of the things we have heard in these presentations on the working bodies are very different from what the coalition contract says. In a way, there's been an interesting contradiction here. On the one hand, we have a government coalition that says it has retained the majority, mathematically it holds that the coalition has remained and that this coalition treaty, which contains this list of promises from the beginning of the mandate, remains in force. But the candidates and candidates for ministers decided today in this National Assembly have promised many other things and also many different things at these presentations. So the question is whether this charter is now being supplemented, amended or whether we will now have for, I don't know, a specific area, say agriculture, two programmes, one that is still in the coalition contract, which is still in force, since it was formally nowhere to be resolved or cancelled, and the other in this presentation, which we have heard from the candidate. We propose to the government coalition to stop a little bit on this issue and pour pure wine on the Slovenian public - what is now the programme in individual areas, what was promised at the beginning of the mandate or what was promised a few months before the end of the mandate; both are formally in force. The answer to this question also depends on the question whether the coalition has collapsed, whether there has been secession, disengagement or what has happened in the first place. In particular, in agriculture, it must be said that the emphasis given on the parental committee when the candidate is presented is different from those enshrined in the coalition contract. Something about this will probably be said further. As far as European affairs are concerned, Slovenia is likely to be a well-prepared candidate for entry into the European Union due to different circumstances. Relatively. Or is it that, after what we have heard in recent months, even at the last presentation of Mr Potočnik in Brussels, in some parts, he is quite ployed? Or is it also the best in terms of Slovenian interests? Being the best candidate for entry into the European Union is not the same as being the best candidate for entry into the European Union from the perspective of our interests. In Brussels, the most praiseworthy were those who had closed the negotiating chapters most of all, those who had not demanded anything, the most with whom they had lost the least of their time, and those who had not demanded anything from them were the most praised. And according to these criteria, Slovenia has always been commended, we have always been the best candidate, we have been the least problematic because we at least demanded. They've been coming to the surprise table for the last few months. Things are different and proved to be different as they were presented by the government on the Foreign Affairs Committee, where negotiating points were discussed. For example, when it came to restricting the movement of labour from the new Member States to the old Member States of the European Union, it was said that this possibility, for a few years after the enlargement of the European Union, exists, but one or two countries may do so. Slovenia is not a problem, nothing will happen. As soon as Cyprus and Malta were exempted from this restriction, our negotiators were humble. In the neighbouring hall, it was said that Slovenia would not be a problem for us to be largely excluded from these restrictions. We have now found that they are valid, that he has obviously made a mistake here and that the Slovenian public has been misled. Another such thing, which does not fly to negotiators, but rather to the authority we had at that time, is found in the labour intensive sectors. Billions were spent to provide an alternative, new jobs in more productive industries, because it was known that the government knew for 7 years what would happen to the competitiveness of labour intensive industries in Slovenia at the time of entry into the European Union. But the money was spent, billions of dollars a year from the budget, and jobs are as threatened as they were 7 years ago or more ago because this step is close. Things can be very non-problem if you are judged by someone who considers you to be good in the sense that you are good if you ask for as little as possible, but the question is how good this is from the point of view of Slovenian national interests. What can Mr Cwickl, who is a candidate for the Minister for this area, do in these few days until the entry into the European Union and then within a few months of entry, which will also be very important for Slovenia to create at least a positive, creative, credible environment at this first stage. I think it's a little bit. It's coming from outside in this area. At this time, when this activity should be the most intensive, it will hardly be possible for it to meet in person with everyone it needs to know to be able to make a peaceable decision, and we think that the exchange at this stage is irresponsible at this point. We objected to Mr Cwickle, who was proposed as President of the Court of Auditors, if someone who was formerly a Secretary of State cannot now become a supervisor for an area he himself has carried out, because this will be in some way contrary. That is why we have also voted against and we have made this public. You've all been left with more or less saying it's okay, and you've voted against it, so I don't know how it's going to be today with these praises, whether it will be the same as it was then or not. But we do note that this reason that we then cited against the candidate for President of the Court of Auditors is not because he was the Secretary of State. This is not a handicap that would now be a minister and therefore, of course, we have no comments on his qualifications. We have our comments in this sense, which I spoke of earlier. His candidacy would probably not even oppose it, but now the vote is in the package and it will be necessary to decide on the package, on the average proposed by the President or Prime Minister. The next area where systemic substitution is most questionable is the Ministry of Economy. Why is there such a change now? We are confident that the Hague could wait a few months for Mrs Petrinovo to complete her mandate. Mr Ferlec, who is now an ambassador to The Hague, could quietly extend his mandate for a few months, as long as he does not already have one in regular, I think it should be extended for a few months, but this is done every day in many countries, including Slovenia. It is particularly controversial to replace an ambassador when he is serving in a country that will preside over the European Union, given that a new one takes some time to establish, especially if it is not a career diplomat and Mrs Petrinova is far from being a career diplomat. If it was necessary to make the exchange due to incompetence, which is also read in recent months, weeks, then it could have been done earlier in the reconstruction of the government. Thus, we note that the exchange at the Ministry of the Economy is the most contradictory, at least logical, most vaguely explained. This has already been said, I don't know, one year now, it is being carried out a few months before the end of the mandate, more damage is likely to be caused by an exchange at the embassy post than by an exchange at the post of Minister or Minister of Economy. It's completely illogical. In the Prime Minister's explanation, we have not heard any argument to explain this exchange in this way. I don't know, even if it's a withdrawal from my own interests, of my own free will, then usually a person leaving the ship a few months before the target is not rewarded with an ambassador's seat. We would therefore ask for a logical explanation of why this exchange is now, a few months before the end of the mandate, and of the problems facing the Slovenian economy after the entry into the European Union, especially when it comes to employment in the labour-intensive sectors, and also in view of restrictions on the free movement of labour in the European Union for the new Member States. What can Dr. Lightman do at this time? He is young and certainly more energetic than Mrs Petrinova, this is in our opinion good, coming from the same college with the same backdrop, I probably have a little less experience. We did not agree with some of his views on acquisitions. He is a typical advocate of the actions with which the rich are getting richer, but after this approach he probably belongs to the team he is proposed to. It would probably be unfair to judge him directly further, the question is how we would vote on him if we were to take this seriously. But, as I said, you proposed a candidate and a candidate in a package. The next area is traffic. Here I think that no one in Slovenia is doing any great worry or illusions that there will be something different here, because it will be the way it was. Mr. President in this ministry didn't make much decisions. This is where some teams with a rich history decide, and that's how it's gonna go. There were no and there will be no special surprises for Dr Pauli, who is proposed for this city. I have a feeling that he is a little weak when it comes to Slovenian sovereignty, which he will have to defend a little more decisively in this place. Months ago we adopted an amendment to the maritime code, in which we corrected a grave error that was built on a flat basis, an expert group in which he also participated, and which wrote in the introduction or explanation of the maritime code that Slovenia does not have sovereign rights at sea or the right to declare sovereign belts at sea. We would like to hear a clearer word about this and ensure that he does not now think as the expert group in which he participated has written down. It is true that the maritime code has now been changed and that the marriage grounds are different, but still. The Minister is expected to defend state sovereignty and not vice versa. An exchange of ministers, the Minister of Justice, is also proposed. Now taken completely, we are confident that everything will continue here as it was. Mr Bizjak has led the Ministry's statistics so far, but not the department. More or less on your own account. Interestingly, this has been very welcomed, supported, never anything critical about it in a coalition of three years. At this point, even the president of the Internal Policy Committee said that almost the minister should be replaced, even regardless of the resignation, since he had recently produced half the products and very poor products. It's too bad we only found out now, but three years ago, everything was fine. But what is the alternative offered to Mr Bisak by the Prime Minister and with which not everyone in the government agrees? She proposed a candidate who said at a presentation on the parental committee that her slogan was: She chooses the right path and responsibility for the final result. It would be nice if that was actually the way it was. But already one of the predecessors of Mr Biszak was at the beginning of the procedure with which he wanted to propose the discharge of Mrs Cerarova, because of actions far from being the right way. Even before the appointment of this post, an extremely important function of the Attorney-General, she acted politically, biasedly and illegally. This was later proved. It's the Little Man case. On the basis of a friendly conversation with the then Justice Minister Meto Zupančič, Mrs Zdenka Cerar sent Mrs Meti Zupančič to the prosecutor's files in the case of Majhen, which she should not have sent. In the letter that she sent these writings, it was 17.02.1995, she wrote, that is, this letter, which Mr. Malhen also published or appended when he claimed the right to court, reads: "Dear Meta! In addition, I'm sending you judgements on the Sergey Smallen case, as I received from the D.A.'s records by fax from the District Attorney of New York City, Niko Brick. He also told me that Sergei Little has been disciplined at the Slovenian Bar Association, which I had never known before. Good-bye, Zdenka." The kid proved you weren't followed. Today he is noting, but it was because of this letter and these writings and the abuse of the prosecutor’s powers that he was not appointed to this function. And it took years and years of judicial ways for his injustice to be rectified. He has also launched prosecutions in criminal or indemnity, I don't know, I think it's criminal because compensation is not outdated, against Mrs Cerarjevo, but of course it is obsolete as in many other cases. Here it was a typical abuse of function, and it was before the appointment to this place. That's not the first time I've made this public. That's what it's all about. Interestingly, there were neither answers nor denials nor any reactions. The government, the executive branch, has also welcomed such conduct as appropriate or as something that needs to be rewarded. And that's what's happening today. When Mrs Cerarjev was appointed Attorney General, she stated that she would not pursue or prosecute certain cases because it was not in the interests of the State. Not because it's not legal, but because it's not in the interest of the state. What's the state's interest, I suppose someone in a place like this can't judge. And then there are things that are not even possible to list and talk about how it is probably in the history of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office right now when it was on the principle of this institution, some twilight of the rule of law in this area. In dozens of cases where mistreatment, arbitration, political, harmful to Slovenia and the legal security of citizens and citizens has been committed. We have been talking about Orion in Parliament for a long time, and the media has been writing before, and television has been reporting, but no persecution. No one has hurried; the Attorney General did not, as in the case of the diplomatic academy, declare that this is a serious matter and prosecute. But now, as we've heard on the home work body, it's going to be hard because now the investigation has shown that the documentation went to the Cayman Islands, Austria and so on. Yeah, of course she did, but if the sparrows had been lurking about this crime for a year before the D.A. went rogue. And the house investigation in Orion was done after a request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject had already been made. Is it a surprise that the paperwork went where the money went before? Then it's Ranc-Kos. It was evident that a high official of the state misused his powers when he illegally and unjustifiably obtained lists of conversations between journalist Tomáž Ranec from TV Slovenia and those who called him two days before he had any court order. Ms Cerareva objected to the submission of the application or the initiation of the procedure. It was only after Barbara Brezigar’s insistence that it had somehow come to this, but guided by the fact that the matter had fallen. Then came an indemnity action against the country initiated by the journalist [[He's also got it, twice already, and it's definitely gonna be legal.]] And from the budget we will pay the taxes now pay this negligence. But for the prize, because he has illegally followed the calls of the journalist, Mr Kos will today be appointed chief of the Anti-Corruption Commission; both on the same day, so to speak. The Minister will be the person who has prevented prosecution in this case, but the person who has broken the law will be appointed chief of the commission to prosecute corruption. This will be a good tandem, I assure you. Everything's gonna be just like it was. Then it's Friday. The grave attack, the attempted murder of a journalist who critically wrote about cases that should be prosecuted even more critically by prosecutors. One year after that attack, the prosecution in Slovenj Gradec was unable to seriously qualify for the crime. The prosecutor, Mrs Jelka Stumberger Mlakar, was unable to write for a year that it was an attempted murder. The case was then transferred to another prosecutor's office, but the prosecutor remained in her position, Mrs Cerarjev said she was doing well, and there was only words left. We saw this same prosecutor on a list published in Sunday there somewhere in the fourth, fifth place among the highest salaries in the public sector; there was a figure of 2 million or a little less that salary stopped for a lot of good work. No disciplinary procedure, no substitution, no action, although it is now quite clear that it was a matter of conduct that helped those who wanted to cover the background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk. Only higher wages, for the prize. Then Fisher, the Attorney General, in a very important place in the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, employs a person without adequate conditions for that job. This is what the media write about, and when it can no longer be denied, action will take place. But which one? There is no investigation against the prosecutor, no prosecution, no disciplinary procedure, he is only relieved of a certain function, and he is still the prosecutor and is doing today, investigating matters that are most resilient, which, if I say so in this language, constitute one of the greatest threats to the legal order in that country. Let's say he's working on a SIB bank, as we found out at this presentation before his mother's working body. However, a person who has been illegally employed without conditions is currently employed by Mr Rob in his office. That's how the hand washed. There's no procedure. Then it concerns the heads of a special group of prosecutors for special purposes. Mrs Jožica Bolte Brus causes a traffic accident, she rejects the alcotest, she is grave to the police, she behaves much worse than one of our fellow Members, who is known for such duels. But what happens? Only discharge from the post of Head of the Special Purposes Group is proposed. There's no disciplinary procedure, nothing happens. Calmly, calmly, someone who does so can continue to serve as a prosecutor. There is no disciplinary procedure to determine whether this is appropriate or not. Then the case already mentioned, the diplomatic academy. A member of the government, who is not exactly after all, signs a letter of intent to train Slovenian diplomats in his own academy. This comes to the Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Kosa, probably uninitiatively he launches an action and then the State Prosecutor declares publicly that this is a serious matter. Even if that were true, it would be about 100 times less serious than in the case of Orion or the SIB bank. But we haven't heard from the Attorney General's Office that I would ever say about these two cases that they're serious. Or in case of illegal wiretaps, tell the press it's a serious matter. Or in the case of the case 165 or 164 deferred, lost, established files with one prosecutor, that this is a serious matter. She said it was a straw act. Therefore, I doubt that, on the basis of this action, it is possible to say that someone is acting in a way that all are equal before the law. We don't remember any major theft in which the state's attorney would say it's a serious matter. On the contrary, when asked about such a thing once, she said that every pig is not a crime yet. Who works here so that we're all the same before marriage? Question. In the absence of any decisive action against the Chief of the Special Prosecutor's Group, against Mr Fischer for corruption, against Mr. Railman, who had to resign, and earlier placed him in a special group, the Attorney General showed great determination against one of his subordinates. It's the D.A.'s office on Ptuj, the Chief. At that time, we heard in a few days a large number of statements about how the prosecution was fighting corruption in its own kind, how they finally got one big thief inside, who is now on his toes. In a very short procedure, it was proposed to be resolved, resolved and so on, it is in criminal proceedings, on dialysis and so on. In short, very energetic behavior. But a few weeks ago, the Supreme Court's judgment, which states that Mr Glavar's government had resolved, would not have found out the actual situation at all. I'm not talking about the criminal procedure. I'm talking about the discharge. It is not that the documentation that has been submitted gives rise to what the actual situation is. And the case fell in the Supreme Court. So much for a strong fight against corruption in its own kind. But such behaviour, because in criminal proceedings the judgment may be different, I am not here defending Mr Glavar. But I'm talking about not being treated the same way in similar cases. When there was a clear suspicion of corruption with Prosecutor Fisher, the prosecutor still dealt with the most difficult cases. No disciplinary procedure, only the lady spoke to him, as she said. With Mr. Railways, deployment to the special purpose group. After that, he probably gave up because of pressure from the public. With Mrs Bruce, no procedure, no disciplinary procedure, just a discharge from a function. It just doesn't work that way. If, even in their own kind, the prosecution does not treat everyone the same way that people in this country can expect it to be an institution that treats them the same way. And that's not happening. Then this matter of the railroad, a close associate of Mrs Cerarov. With a set of circumstances, 164 deferred files, criminal charges, applications, announcements are found in his closet. He has been transferred to a special purpose group, a group that should deal with the most difficult cases. Some of those found in the closet are difficult cases. If he hadn't given up on his own, he'd probably have gotten into his hands now again the cases he put in the closet before. This is the policy of the Attorney General's Office. Many wonder how it is possible that there is no prosecution, no disciplinary action, at least not to be seen in public, against a man who had 164 pending cases in the closet, and that is a matter that many are publicly known that cannot be kept secret. I don't think the Attorney General was able to act very energeticly in this case, because she herself had a bank for one year in such a area or closet. Regardless of what has now been said on the Internal Policy Committee, the fact is that after the request for the first extraordinary meeting was made, the prosecution did not know where the application was and they called on the City Council Group of SDS in Ljubljana if they sent it again. Thus this talk now, as it has been examined and found not to be a sign of crime, does not drink water, of course, because we know what was actually happening at the time. However, even if that were the case, the question of the qualification of this case is extremely controversial, how one must say that it is not a crime not to deal with it in a case where a few billion tolars have disappeared. And there's another year waiting for this money to come back. When we read the magnetogram, the explanation of the candidate for the post of justice minister on the home work body, what it says about the conduct of the prosecutor in whose closet many resounding cases of economic crime have been lost, and probably this has contributed greatly to the obsessiveness, I quote, "This is a result of great depravity." And that's all. Who in this country is going to believe that it was despicable here. How does this institution work? Is there no internal control, or does no one ask, where are these things now, at what stage, what's added, because it's all day in the media? The fact is, the Attorney-General's Office has recently been led by a person who, after his conduct and qualifications, has not been suitable for this town, I am very sorry. During this time, at this institution, the prosecution has accumulated the most difficult outstanding cases. As a result, the proposal for the same person to become a justice minister, which is supposed to take care of the entire justice system, is inappropriate. We expected that, after these reactions to the professional public, after reactions in the laity public, in the opposition, even in the government itself, there would be reflection and that the Prime Minister would propose someone else. But apparently the pressure in the back was so strong that it wasn't possible. Otherwise, I do not understand that someone is working for his own harm and for the sake of his own credibility of the entire government team if this pressure was not very strong back there. But before I say two sentences about this, let's ask ourselves, what is a general or some educational message to the Slovenian public in this case? After all these unresolved cases, after all these corrupt cases, after all this different treatment in similar cases, such as the message, for example, for young generations: that you simply have to use different vats, that you have complaints against the powerful, that you can frame the SIB, protect the incompetent and corrupt collaborators, and that you will do well, and if it is particularly successful, they will even propose it as a minister. It's a message. And that is why we expected the Prime Minister to change his mind. Because otherwise, what happens is, if I paraphrase Cankar, to the joy of thieves and to the mockery of justice. Nothing else will be like it was before, or worse. Why such insistence despite criticism in the profession, laity of the public, opposition and even the government themselves? Here I would like to remind you of one of our press conferences, the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was published months ago, and then also demented and mocked when we commented on the appointment of Mr Jenul as State Prosecutor. At that time, we said that it was obviously preparing for Mrs Cerarov's replacements before the end of her term of office and for the appointment of a new Attorney General for the next five years, even at a time when most of this authority had the power to take care of the mandates for the next five years. And that's what's happening now. It is not so much about what will happen - obviously it is in the background, despite all these criticisms, it is obviously behind this insistence - it is not so much about what will now be at the Ministry of Justice, it is about how little to place responsibility for the state of the prosecution and how to appoint to this place this political suit of loyal, dedicated man who will for the next five years maintain continuity with the conduct that Mrs Zdenka Cerar has established as the Attorney General. That's what this is about. Continuity. Its term of office shall not expire until the beginning of the following year. In order for the matter to be done elegantly by naming someone for the next five years, she is now Mrs Cerarje's candidate for the Minister of Justice. And that will be decided in the package. But the right decision will be taken when the vote is taken on Mr Jenul or anyone else who will like the current cabinet for the next five years. So much for the belief that someone will be in power for the next ten years. In any case, regardless of the elections, such conduct will be allowed. Finally, I will say that we regret that no proposal has been adopted to appoint state secretaries to these vacant posts, who could actually take over the work. Controversy may also be guilty of many who, for example, do well in the prosecution, but because of these large unresolved cases, the shadow falls on their work, many people are probably trying in Slovenian justice, but everything is assessed by their head and therefore the reputation of these institutions is low after all public opinion research. Once again, we regret that the proposal has not been accepted that we have heard, instead of at least some reflection on this proposal, the position of the Prime Minister on how to propose exclusively candidates who are able to continue the work of their predecessors on the first day. I don't think there are any people like that. No one, unless he was at least a deputy minister before, can continue his work the next day. That he's proposing people who don't need introductions. We don't think so, of course, but we can't stop it with the voices we have here. We will vote against this package, but it is likely that, given the mathematical majority and the public vote of the coalition will be adopted. However, I make it very clear that this medal has two sides. If we get a third of the government here today, made up of "supermans", who are able to continue their predecessors' work on the first day and do not need introduction, they will now be fully responsible for the situation in their departments. And if it's not too late a few months before the election to replace ministers and a third of the government, then it's not too late to call these ministers for responsibility. This is how we expect colleagues and colleagues of the government coalitions not to say that if any interpolation is put in, it is pointless a few months before the elections. It'll make just as much sense as this action we're doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by colleague Janez Podobnik. Comrade Squirrel, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honourable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers and candidate for Minister! Respectable other members of the government! When the Prime Minister proposes five new names for new ministers, this is an important political event for each country. That's the way it is today. If a random observer had listened to today's debate from outside, especially the opening address of the Prime Minister, then he would have estimated that five ministers simply said that they were no longer wrong and that the Prime Minister had accepted their resignation and proposed new names. However, it is necessary to say here that the reasons why the ministers and ministers decided to resign are different. This is particularly true of the position of the parties I preside over and of the group I lead. The most logical and expected was a single replacement. Slovenia has received a new European Commissioner in 10 days, and I am confident that it will also receive all the support in the European Parliament and become the first European Commissioner from Slovenia. And this city is incompatible with the place of office for European affairs, and this replacement was logical, its resignation was the only one expected. Mrs. Dr. McKinley. Tea Petrin decided to continue her career as a diplomat and decided to step down at this point. The Prime Minister sent two new names to Parliament for the new ministers. At the time, the Slovenian People's Party was still a government party and had no negative relations and references to the proposed names. But then there was a very important political moment. The Slovenian People's Party consistently supported his interpretation of the question, in accordance with its political conviction, which was also based on professional reasons, when voting on the question of interpretation of the work and responsibility of Dr Bohinc, because it assessed that he had acted wrongly as Minister when he began to issue supplementary decisions without a legal basis. Our decision in this regard was consistent and principled. The Prime Minister then decided to expel us from the government coalition for the conduct of the parliamentary group. And this decision could have been followed by a single logical and politically credible move. Ministers of our party: mag. Booth, mag. Bizjak, Jakob the Presector has retreated. Since then, the Slovenian People's Party has become a party to the opposition. However, we expected the Prime Minister to mention this fact, because in some ways this act has also turned the coalition of four government parties into a coalition of three. So here are the reasons why the Prime Minister then decided to send three new names to the procedure for three new ministers. We expected the proper interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to be found, and today the National Assembly could decide on two lists. Especially would it be somehow, I would say, politically correct to our party, to the Slovenian People's Party, because the leaves had a completely different background for the reasons for the resignation of ministers. Here, however, we regret the decision that there will be a vote in the package today. The vote in the package simply prevents a positive definition of certain candidates on the list. In this place, I would like to say to my distinguished colleagues and colleagues that the Slovenian People's Party has, over the last three and a half years as the only party to the right-centre political orientation, worked in the government with its political energy, experience, knowledge also through support in the influences of the Brussels Circles, especially within the framework of the European People's Party, which we have already been active members, we become full members after May 1st and, as such, have been credible in representing its political agenda within this government. It was not easy, there were common views, and there were different views. We believe that we have done as I said before consistently when we have persisted in the issue of the deleted and have been expelled from the coalition because of our principled position. Today I would just like to say once again that we are proud to be mags at the work of three of our ministers. Booth, mag. Bizjak and Jakob Preseknik in the work of this government coalition also brought the necessary programme width and undoubtedly worked for the good of the Republic of Slovenia. In our new position there is no bitterness in us, but the conviction that we will work in the good of Slovenian countries and Slovenian citizens with a consistent attitude in our programming directions. Here, too, thanks our previous coalition colleagues for all that we have done together successfully. Now we have a list of five names. As I said before, it would be hygienic, and we wouldn't be in violation of the rules of procedure if we had at least two leaves. But we only have one. This list contains the names of respected university professors. Here obviously the Slovenian government remains and we gain to its seal a strong professor's team, which has positive and, of course, negative salaries. But it's just a short note. On this list, I would like to make it clear that we have publicly stated that he was a magician. In our opinion, he is a good candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors. If today we had the opportunity to decide on each candidate individually or especially on the first letter, the first two names that he sent as Prime Minister to the National Assembly would also be present today and would show this by voting. As a young and ambitious professor of the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, who obviously remains a strong pool of ministerial candidates, we want him to do a successful job and get a good team. He will certainly need people who have experience directly in the economy and we advise him to bring such people to his ministry. I would like to touch other lists, the other three names proposed by the Prime Minister. In our opinion, the Prime Minister made a mistake when he decided to propose Mrs Zdenko Cerar as a candidate for justice. At least we have a few readings that are related to her work so far. In the area of the Prosecutor's Office, there have been de facto some irregularities. And these irregularities seem to have revealed themselves more randomly than systemicly, with some kind of plan. And that, in our opinion, is a bad legacy for running such a department. It is also necessary to highlight the hierarchical structure in the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office. Here, Mrs Cerarov's objective responsibility is indisputable because of the very way in which the Prosecutor's Office operates. If I mention the already mentioned problematic reaction in the case of SIB With the proposal for Mrs Cerarjevo, even after the Prime Minister has heard some concerns, some arguments by the civil public, not only by the political public, but also by the opposition, there is a bold move made by a member of the government, Dr Rupel's foreign minister, in our opinion, the Prime Minister would be wise to take advantage of the business opportunity and would not propose a candidate for a minister after his appearance on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice of Ms Ceraroveva. This would show his political wisdom. If I did that, I would have done the right thing. In our opinion, too, the candidate would be wise, and given the fact that her candidacy ran into such different public, political and professional reflections, she would not accept them. This has not happened and it is now up to us to take responsibility, in this case politically. With the proposal for Mrs Cerarje, the Prime Minister also accepts responsibility for the mistakes made by the candidate in her work so far. Of course, not everything was wrong with her work so far, that there would be no misunderstanding. However, some of her moves were one that could lead us to argue that she was doing the wrong thing. And will or willful decisions have also been passed on to the Prime Minister, who also assumes responsibility for this. When I mentioned earlier in the introduction the decision that the four-party coalition contract, which had been signed since long ago in November 2000, was then re-added in the second half, was re-signed by four parties after two years after Drnovšek's new post of Prime Minister took over the government's presidency. For some people have said: "You will see when the main work for joining the European Union will be done - and here the Slovenian People's Party is important, first of all because it is the only one of the parties who has consistently done everything since its establishment in the Union Hall in May 1988, saying with pride that the future of Slovenian agriculture and agriculture is also in the Slovenian national interest and doing so, of course, that as a people's party is active in all other areas - ; when this work is done, it may be possible to show that the two-thirds majority is no longer needed and will find a formal reason to thank you for your work in the government." Some decisions that have recently been taken could have been interpreted through these assessments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because of the list of candidates proposed by the Prime Minister in the parliamentary group, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Kebrič will now present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Then, we have a few more presentations and a debate between Members and Members. In the meantime, candidates for ministers will also be able to come forward. Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister, Minister, candidate and candidates for new ministerial posts, colleagues and colleagues. In our Group of Members, democracy is a matter of thinking and deciding on the basis of the arguments I propose, and it is true that everyone is voting on his conscience. Our Group of Members wants not only to be constructive, but also to be country-friendly. The result of the anger referendum is a certain obligation, as we have not only voted in favour of the decision to join the European Union in our parliamentary group in the previous term but also in the current one. It has done the same and worked on the ground Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners, and therefore this result obliges us to do what we can do until the end of the term of office until the fall of the new national elections. We believe that, with May 1st, we will adopt it into the Union, and that we will celebrate it with dignity by showing our success not only by bringing so many laws into line with European legislation, but above all by doing so in the basic principle that these laws are to some extent better than ours, because we have had some from the former Yugoslavia since we have adopted ourselves, and we have not yet been able to present all laws so well that they are equivalent to Europeans, so we are taking part in and supporting all those proposals for harmonisation with European legislation in our parliamentary group. We believe that this remaining part of the mandate, which is still very, very important to us, will become a full member of the European Union on 1 May. We expect the candidates and candidates for the "empted ministerial cities" to be as follows: for the first time, we who are moving a lot among citizens, and we are listening to justified criticisms, we are the ones who will and expect the new minister and ministers to listen to our proposals, we have taken them into account and, in our work, we are also applying them. Without prejudice to the fact that we have also had certain such or other concerns or criticisms and comments on the part of the parliamentary group, we have decided unanimously to support this list of candidates for the new ministers in a uniform manner. Since we had little time planned, we could say much more about this and what we expect to see in this finalisation of our mandate and what more will be said by our fellow Member, Valentin Pohorec, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Kebrich. Colleague Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Respectable. They would be naive if they believed that today would not be an opportunity for the two interpolations, but, after some extraordinary meetings on the SIB and others, that today it would not be an opportunity to assess the government's success, to assess everything that was expected, and perhaps not to be met; so above all, that the government would be unsuccessful in some projects and that they could triumph over how we reconstruct the government a few months before the elections because they could not carry out those tasks that it had done with such a coalition contract. It is funny to quote from a coalition contract some things that are not meant to be or worse or to be applied in any way. I am sure that we cannot avoid these discussions and that it will take a long time in the night. According to the announcements, a lot of Members and Members of Parliament have something to say, both in this title - that is, how the government is unsuccessful and what has to be said is wrong - as well as that some of the obvious, some of the published texts are primarily reinterpreted here as what is a chronic proof that the candidate and the candidates do not deserve the support of Members and Members, that they cannot enjoy confidence both in the National Assembly and not in the public and, lastly, not in the Prime Minister either. However, the list of candidates for the minister and ministers is such that we will support them, because we believe that this is the optimal proposal that we have before us. It is a candidate and candidates with public references and reputation undisputed. Above all, they have presented themselves most appropriately in their home work bodies. After their presentations of visions and their confirmation of how they can complete the tasks which are both before the government, both before the Slovenian State in this mandate and, of course, after thorough answers to all the questions raised by Members and Members at the meetings of working bodies and of particular interest to them. It will never be possible to meet Mr Jerovšku in his expectations, because I would like to hear something other than what someone has done so far, what he is able to do in the future and how he will be involved in the good of this Slovenia for these few months in the work of the government. We estimate that this is a list that fully answers the question of the competence of individuals to perform the duties of ministers and ministers. Moreover, it is a candidate and candidates who, with their personal competence, responsibility and commitment, ensure that, when they are elected, they will no doubt contribute to Slovenia's successful entry into the European Union. I do not believe it is only a matter of pride to be in these solemn and crucial moments for Slovenia, Minister or Minister, but it is about putting all their expertise and responsibility into this part of the engagement. We believe that it is the responsibility of Members and Members that, after the resignations of ministers and ministers, whatever the reasons for the derogations were. I believe that the Slovenian People's Party and anyone else, especially those of the old opposition, would answer that standing opposition, to discuss why the Slovenian People's Party did not abstain in the coalition until the end of the mandate and why it was more important that it simply renounces this role and actually works non-committally, unstately. And that's why she drove herself to this. I firmly believe that no Prime Minister or any one of these three ministers has held hands to sign that resignation statement; but some are difficult, and I know that, but that's another thing. Neither does it make sense to talk about what actually led to the withdrawals. It is important that Members and Members be able to ensure that the government receives a competent composition to obtain a composition that will be able to perform the tasks ahead of it by the end of its term of office. After all, if I were ironic, I would remember in 2000, when the same people now explain how irresponsible it is to change the government a few months before the elections, because one way or another the autumn elections will be, and that will happen. How much less time did the interim government have in 2000 than these ministers and ministers to continue what is in the context of the common policy, but it is the fact that the Prime Minister, with the whole government, is leading the government's policy and that it goes to individual departments to carry out tasks which, according to the law on government and others, are being judged by a certain department. So these arguments, on the one hand, are that it works constructively in the context of the performance of all the tasks that are important to citizens and citizens, not whether we are going to Parliament's political game, whether one or the other option will lead it or not. I agree: indeed, there is no particular need to go into substantial and radical changes in the government's policy by the end of the mandate, but it is a matter of refreshment, it is a matter of emphasis on those areas that may need further incentives in order to make the work even better and more coordinated, I do not doubt that. So this is an expert, competent and credible candidate who can do it right away - and now it needs to be stressed if this was an obvious one - who can indeed immediately take over at the appropriate staffing levels after the Ministry's tasks, which are still on the table. And certainly that what happened on the working bodies is evidence, not only at the end of the vote - you can say that you have the majority, you are applying the principle of rollers and so on, but it is not about this - there were a number of discussions on these committees, there were issues that benefit everyone and thus to the completion of the tasks that are before the national assembly, before the government, before the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to the reflections of citizens and citizens, what policy and what tasks to support in the future. But not only in general, but it should be said that if we look at the presentation of individual candidates, we must in no doubt find that, for example, the candidate for the Transport Minister, Dr. Marko Pavliha, currently a lecturer as a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, at the Ljubljana Faculty of Economics, and at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport in Portorož, is the head of the Department of Maritime and Traffic Law and is designed for scientific research; or Dr. Milan Pogačnik, the candidate for the new Agricultural Minister, is the Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Sciences and the head of the Institute of Pathology, judicial and administrative veterinary medicine. Otherwise, he is a regular professor of pathological morphology, judicial and administrative veterinary. In 1999 he received an honorary mark of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia for the merit of scientific research, teaching and organisational work important for the development and enforcement of Slovenian veterinary medicine. For example, Zdenka Cerar has been a candidate for the Minister of Justice and has been acting as the Attorney-General since March 1999, and of course also in a very frequent confrontation, but she has argued in all cases and has finally proved herself in a professional area where she has been active in the judiciary or the prosecution all the time before. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, a candidate for the Minister of Economy, is employed at the Faculty of Economics as a ducent in the field of management, at the Centre for Completing and Consulting of the Faculty of Economics is the institution of the program of merger and acquisition of enterprises, and as a lecturer also participates in the investment school within the same college. Milan M. Cwickl, a candidate for a non-resource minister in charge of European affairs, is the director of the NLB Financial Management Centre, not a small bank. In the past, he served as Secretary of State for Budget and Public Finance. He also served as the head of the negotiating group in the EU, for the economic and monetary community - the most responsible tasks! Of course we could say something else, but I will only say that, in addition to having to admit to all candidates, although they were actually brave enough to be responsible for their professional and other public life and work, without calculation, without any specific, small calculations, what will bring autumn, they have decided to engage in the work of the Slovenian government and that, in addition, they have indicated in their presentations some kind of vision, everyone in their field, who, I believe, also indicate the realization of our expectations in the coming period. I wish you a happy journey and, as we say, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will unanimously support the candidate list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much. A replica of the position is not possible during the presentation. Please, colleague Jerovšek, you are well aware that a replica cannot be explained between the appearances of representatives of the parliamentary groups representing the positions. I also warn those who represent the views of the groups of Members that it is not possible to argue with the views of other groups of Members. My colleague Potrč now has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Mr President of the Prime Minister, the distinguished candidate and candidates for ministers, Mr President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Six months before the regular parliamentary elections, we are in a position of coalition and government when the Minister and four ministers resigned. In order to ensure an improved composition of the government, its president had to propose to the National Assembly of the new Minister and Ministers. Today's decision is formally irrelevant why the resignation of ministers and the necessity of appointing new ones have taken place. Therefore, the appointment process cannot be adapted to the political interests of the opposition. The appointment process is clearly laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and the political interests of the opposition cannot be over it. However, the reasons for the urgent replacement of almost one third of the government are not irrelevant, as each government must have valid reasons if, six months before the end of its term of office, a third of its composition is to be replaced. And the present is headed by the president of the Magi. Tonem Robb has such urgent reasons and, according to the United List of Social Democrats, has not caused them alone. The reasons are neither due to its poor functioning nor to the crisis of the government or to such errors of ministers, so that their replacements are needed. The reasons are due to the desire of some parties to make it as difficult as possible before the elections to the European Parliament and, in particular, before the national elections, for this government to function normally and successfully, that the composition of the parties in the coalition and the opposition should change, that a picture of the failure of the government and the crisis should be created, if possible, of the new political links to the European and subsequent national elections. We all remember when, following the replacement of the Prime Minister of the Coalition, four other parliamentary parties, last spring at the meeting of all Members and Members, and all the most responsible representatives of these parties, decided to work in the unaltered composition of the regular national elections. We all remember that there were also a lot of discussions at the time about whether it would be useful to make some changes in ministerial positions, and the Prime Minister decided, on the basis of clear agreements between all coalition partners, not to propose any changes in the government. This was certainly proof that at the time four other coalition partners had publicly ensured that they would work together by the end of their term of office, and there was certainly evidence that, above all, no necessary or unnecessary changes had been made or envisaged by the Prime Minister himself. Since last autumn, however, the situation on the Slovenian political scene has begun to deteriorate. Each objective observer knows that this has occurred mainly because of the increased criticalness and aggressiveness of the opposition, especially the SDS and its influence on other opposition parties. Demands for ever-increasing extraordinary meetings, attempts to create and deal with ever-increasing affairs; politicisation and unobjective presentation of the process and content of the resolution of the deleted problems; demands for decision-making on these issues in the referendum; amended public opinion support for the leading parties of the coalition and the opposition to interpretation against the two ministers of the current government, as well as cooperation, the coalition of Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party in the European People's Party Group - all of this has given the impression that changes are needed on the Slovenian political scene and that the situation in the current government also needs to be changed. And the escalation of such circumstances has led the Slovenian People's Party to decide to openly violate the Coalition Treaty. And that's at the point where every coalition I believe is the most sensitive. If the coalition parties are no longer prepared to support the President and the composition of his cabinet - and this is what the Slovenian People's Party has demonstrated by its conduct - then the party that follows the established criteria of parliamentary democracy and normal party behaviour will exclude itself from the government. If it is consistent, it must do so itself, not ask whether it can still remain in the government, and expect to be able to be in and out of the government at the same time. The Slovenian People's Party's emphasis that it has announced its conduct in advance and that this is not a violation of the coalition treaty cannot seriously justify its conduct. The emphasis that it is committed to a constitution that is more than a coalition treaty does not hold back from judging, since it cannot, in the clear decisions of the Constitutional Court, assess what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not, itself, assess what is best for it. So, unfortunately, in our opinion, there was a situation where sanctions against the Slovenian People's Party were necessary. She caused them to act on her own. Therefore, it cannot claim to have been excluded or to have been mistreated by the coalition. He must admit that she has caused such a situation by her conduct and that, if she is in principle, she would have to deal with such consequences. This was necessary to say that it would not create any wrong impression that the Slovenian People's Party was a party and, above all, that its ministers were victims of some form of misconduct in the coalition. In order not to give the impression that the Prime Minister or the remaining parties to the coalition were guilty and wished that the three ministers of the Slovenian People's Party had left the government. These ministers may indeed be victims, but the victims of the conduct of the leadership of their own party, who simply decided to do so. I admit that the United List of Social Democrats would be preferable, that this would not happen and that there would not be a breach of the coalition agreement, but we are glad that, if it has already come, we have managed to find such a quality candidate and candidates for new ministers in such a short time. These are, therefore, briefly described the reasons why we have to decide today on five and not just the replacement of two ministers. These reasons, however, are being tried by customers and the media to adapt to their own views and interests, but the facts, as I have described them, I think they hold. Therefore, after the Prime Minister had been forced to replace ministers for the conduct of one of the coalition partners, the coalition, together with him, decided to seek and propose candidates and candidates who, due to their professional competence and knowledge of the situation in individual ministries, would be able to immediately, but not only after hundreds of days of introduction, take over the full burden of their tasks and successfully lead the ministries. This has fully succeeded the Prime Minister and the coalition. Ms Zdenka Cerar, Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice, Minister-General of State Zdenka Cerar, and candidates for ministers: for European affairs, Mr Milan Cvikl, for the economy of Dr Matej Lahovnik, for agriculture, forestry and nutrition Dr Milan Pogačnik and for transport and communications Dr Marko Pavliha presented not only their broad knowledge and knowledge of the content of the Ministry's work, which they will lead, but also highlighted concrete, current tasks that can and must be carried out by the end of this mandate. Their presentations were so good that, often, MEPs and members of the opposition could not oppose the assessment that their presentation was successful or stressed that they had to do so because of the party's discipline. The attempt of the opposition and the Slovenian People's Party to weaken the strength of the new coalition, or to demonstrate a long-term search for the appropriate personnel, perhaps even because of the coalition arguments that the ministerial city should belong to the individual party, has failed in the coalition of weaknesses. The strength and maturity of the new coalition is confirmed. Her reputation and her confidence in the public were also confirmed, which must have helped to select such excellent staff in such a short time. This fact cannot change the attempts to discredit the proposed candidates, especially the candidate Zdenka Cerar. The vast majority of these experiments result either from personal injury or from ignorance of the constitutional position of the institution and its leader. The estimates that Mrs Zdenka Cerar is guilty of any individual case that has not been triggered or resolved by the taste of her critics and, at the same time, is guilty of any procedure that has been legally initiated, but should not have been assessed by those same criticisms, show only the wrong way of understanding the role of the state prosecutor's organisation, in particular how they imagine themselves the independence of the judiciary, including as regards specific cases that are being reported to her. Especially because they want to blame her even for the situation in justice and in general, that is, the law enforcement authorities and the courts she did not run. I only hope that such arbitration and such conduct will never again prevail solely in political terms in our justice. All the concrete cases that are still being discussed today are half-truths and the theft of certain facts to political interests; perhaps in principle, if half-truths or lies are repeated, so that they may become the truth. And to conclude, the United List of Social Democrats, as I believe the coalition as a whole, supports the proposals for a minister and four ministers and will vote in favour of the list submitted. She is confident that the updated government team will successfully carry out its tasks until the regular state elections. Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats, and especially the Ministers and Ministers of the United List of Social Democrats in the Government, will do our utmost to ensure that this government and coalition successfully fulfils not only the tasks of this mandate, but also to present and consolidate itself as a government and coalition that deserves the confidence of the electorate and electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much. He now has the floor of his colleague Štemberger, he will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, and then we will hear only the performance of his colleague Pečet and start with the debate of Members and Members. Now, the Youth Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm not Stémberger yet. I'm Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Excuse me, Comrade Levich, I'm sorry. It was written by a colleague of Štebemberger. Comrade Levich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Respectable candidate and candidate for ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We regret the situation in which we, Members of Parliament, as well as you, candidates for ministers. Just a few months before the new elections, we need to vote on the candidates for ministers who will run their departments for only a short period of time, a very short time to be able to implement their work programmes. What will be the political situation after the elections, so that candidates can expect work to continue in the new mandate, but no one can predict it, especially because of Slovenia's near entry into the European Union, when some projects remain unfinished. Ministers' candidates have also pointed out in their presentations on the working bodies that it would take more than six months to see the results of their work, so we ask ourselves whether their appointment is only a temporary solution to the problems, but we believe that Slovenia needs a stable government at this time, which will work smoothly until the autumn elections or until the appointment of a new mandate holder and a new government. However, all the solutions for individual departments proposed by the Prime Minister, mag. Robbery, in our opinion, is not appropriate. In the Young Slovenia Party, we regret that the Prime Minister may not have considered his proposal sufficiently for five new ministers, since he is also a candidate or a more precise candidate who cannot be supported, especially for principle and for substantive reasons. We estimate that the candidates for the Transport, Agriculture and Economic Minister cannot be compensated for their incompetence, and these are the people who have already proven themselves in their areas and have prepared good work programmes. As we have heard from the working bodies, they are ready to take over and bring to a conclusion the tasks that remain unfinished. All proposed candidates also presented a work programme prepared for a longer period of time and not only for the duration of their term of office. Mr Lahovnik, the candidate for Minister of Economy, is a candidate who deserves all the support. From his programme we have been able to track not only strictly the economic programme, but a considerable desire to cooperate with the other ministries. Conscious of the importance of including knowledge and education in businesses, involving young researchers in business, the importance of investing in research and development and the necessity of introducing new products and processes of high technology into Slovenian companies, as the year can bring competitive advantages in the European economy and the importance of coordinating activities between ministries. He also expressed this at the committee hearing. In this regard, I am interested in his thinking on what he feels about the newly adopted Law on corporate income tax, which suggested a significant reduction in investment relief, the equipment needed for research and development. This is not exactly in line with his views on the importance of research and development activities. In the Europe we are entering, it is easy for companies investing in these activities to have a trend and a necessity to maintain competitive advantage. It is also important to realise that integration into the European Union not only brings advantages such as the absorption of structural funds, but also the loss of certain benefits, such as the export of goods to the market of the Balkans. We could also support the candidate for Transport Minister, Mr Pavli. In his debate, he stressed the commitment to all forms of transport, the tendency to shift increasing road transport to rail and water transport. It is also commendable to welcome the work of the so-called Gas Tolar to preserve nature. The construction of the motorway cross, which is extended and auctioned from year to year, must not be the only project in the field of transport in Slovenia. The fifth corridor and the construction of the second rail track would have to be implemented as soon as possible, as it will not only be necessary to enter Europe, but necessity, transit through Slovenia will continue to increase and only new motorways - this is certainly not a solution. The agricultural minister's candidate will certainly take over the most difficult resort during this sensitive time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The primary agricultural sector is looking forward to hot weather due to an unfinished restructuring. Facing Slovenian agriculture with reality and its fragmentation are certainly not convincing compared to the level of agriculture in Europe. As a result, the Minister will have a challenge in linking primary agriculture with secondary agriculture, which is with the food-processing industry which is actually awaiting entry, in our view, unrelated and non-competitive. Let us hope that, at least in part, he will be able to correct past mistakes and mitigate the job losses in these activities as much as possible. However, it is as if the Prime Minister wants to maintain completely inadequate staffing in one of the most important ministries in recent years, which is the Ministry of Justice. In the appointment of the former Minister of Justice, Mr Ivan Bizjak, we have drawn attention in particular to Mr Bizjak's inadequate education in such a responsible place, as we would expect that this area, which is responsible for the smooth functioning of the legal system in the country, will be led by a graduate lawyer. Especially because it is the LDS and especially the Prime Minister, Mr Mag. Robbery, on every occasion, refers to the alleged exceptional expertise of government officials in his government. It would be difficult for the former Minister of Justice to find this so-emphasized and principled criterion of expertise, since, as an expert in the other field, the law is probably not very domestic. We now have a new human resources proposal before us, which we cannot tell him that he did not take into account our comments mentioned above. Mrs Zdenka Cerar is a lawyer, and that the case after years of inadequate first-place education in the Ministry of Justice has finally come to realize that this is the place of the lawyer, we welcome. However, Mrs Cerarjevo, or the proposal for her appointment, has already triggered such a negative reaction among the government's representatives themselves that we strongly doubt the appropriateness of her choice and appointment. For if Prime Minister Rop cannot provide a suitable collegiate atmosphere between two such important ministers as the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Justice, then we are looking forward to a very weak and unstable government. Such a government does not need Slovenia, because the time in which we will live next months requires a strong, operational, capable and efficient government. Therefore, in the Young Slovenia Party, we will not support the proposal to appoint new ministers, since the disputes that are already being demonstrated in the largest government party or among its ministers do not lead to the creation of an effective government. On a committee where votes are supposed to be chosen and sound harmonised, even though there are singers who know the notes well, the solo votes in our opinion are too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My colleague Peca, by presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, you will conclude a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and then I will open a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we regret that in our country we have not had any luck with the Slovenian government for many years. We regret that for many years we have not had a strong government with a clear strategy and a government that would have managed to hold on for four years in the form that was originally called. For the fact is that only a government that is solid, capable, with a strong hand and a hand that leads somewhere, can carry out both economic and any other program. However, any government that is subject to the daily policies of one of the political parties is, in our opinion, to the detriment of our country, of course, according to the Slovenian National Party. Unfortunately, since Slovenia's independence, it has not been possible for Slovenia to overcome such a government, which would show not only authority, but not just intelligence in the area of various programmes, but in particular that it has not shown any long-term strategy. We in this national assembly meet with one and the same laws from month to month because the government is unable to predict because the government is unable to predict certain, possibly macroeconomic effects, even for a month ahead. [[Mr. Robb, may I ask you?]] Thank you. As regards today's proposal to appoint ministers, which was submitted by the Prime Minister, Mr Rob, to this National Assembly, we must say that, at the time of his appointment, we have already announced that we are assessing and that we are afraid that his ambitions are much greater than his abilities. This has been demonstrated since the date of his election and to date, both in the area of money and the monetary system and in the field of the tax system in our country, as well as in all other areas. Unfortunately, however, our claim - that is, ambitions greater than our ability - also proves today's vote in this area. It proves that the Slovenian government is operating without one third of ministers at this time for this reason, so we cannot talk about a long-term strategy of the Slovenian government as a whole. But here there is no harm or opportunity only for political parties on the one hand, it is mainly damage for citizens and citizens; that is, those who in this country, together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would allow them a better tomorrow. But the strategy of each Prime Minister is what he will do with individual ministers. And if Minister Rob decided to throw three out of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and allow two of them to leave the post of Minister for the purpose of compiling their functions, it seems irresponsible in the National Party. That on appointment the Minister does not know how long his ministers will be in office, that is, one of the most important in this country, and that he does not know that the ministerial position will be replaced by a position abroad - yes, that is irresponsible. In the National Party, we estimate that, unfortunately, the irresponsible government of the Republic of Slovenia has been so far, and we fear that despite the new names for which the Prime Minister and the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS guarantee that they are quality candidates, the government will still not get the assessment that everyone in the National Party wants to receive. And it is the government that consists of anyone, including the lions, the elders, the younger, anyone. Whether the National Party is in the government or not, we want to have only a government that knows what it is doing and who will stick to its plan. In his presentation, at the beginning of today's debate, the Prime Minister, according to our assessment, has completely eliminated the importance of credibility; when he tried to impose responsibility for the situation, he is, of course, saying that there is no critical situation, only one political party that is not usually in this National Assembly of the People's Party. According to our assessment, the People's Party did not withdraw from the coalition but was expelled from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because it respected the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia more than the Coalition Treaty. And, of course, it goes further here, according to our assessment, a strong earring to the Prime Minister, who requires not only his coalition partners, ministers, but also their fellow Members to respect the content of the coalition treaty more closely than the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this National Assembly, we have met with a clear violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - with three principles, with three basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the division of power, on the hierarchy of legal acts, but unfortunately none of these evident violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were sufficient reason for some not to support how Minister Bohinc's deserved interpretations and for the punishment they fly from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So this suggests the non-creditability not only of the Prime Minister, but of the entire government. Next, the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, spoke about the European Union, about Slovenia's readiness to join the European Union and, above all, what stabbed us, at least in the context of the National Party's Group of Members, is that he praised Slovenia for being the most ready to join the European Union. One speaker rightly said this time that, of course, we should not look so unilaterally at the matter, because the praises coming from abroad are solely based on their views, aspirations and assumptions as to what a new member of the European Union means to them. Of course, at least according to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the readiness to measure whether we are really ready should be measured through a Slovenian perspective. It is also sad, and at this moment, of course, I will take advantage of the fact that Slovenia's statement of readiness is made by one of the opposition Members, Mr Janša, while the same Member himself does nothing in this direction. Even more so, when we invite him to the Slovenian National Party Group on 12 March 2004 to join us in protesting, or to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenia must respond to ignorance and the shame that the institutions of the European Union are doing to us with regard to the movement of labour, this Member, Mr Janša, who, at the beginning of today, spoke about the same matter as I do today, of course, does not sign it. And we have credibility on both sides. And, of course, how do we proceed? According to our assessment, the question of how to proceed is the issue of guidelines or continuity of action. The Prime Minister said that ministerial names, new ministerial names, which are likely to be voted today or which will certainly be voted today, will also ensure continuity. And that's why we're afraid of doing this at the National Party. We fear that today the National Assembly will, by its vote, allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything it has done not only in the past four years in this mandate, but, of course, what it has been doing in the last ten years since we have had the Liberal Democracy almost on a pure government. According to the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, it was said that candidates are unacceptable only for those who are accompanied by narrow political interests or I will quote: "severe party interests". For Members of the Slovenian National Party, quite a few of the candidates proposed are not suitable, but we have not been brought to this assessment by some narrow political or party orientation or interest, but, above all, by the desire for individual substantive issues to be regulated as they should be within our country. Mr President, can I ask you to calm down the Members of the Liberal Democracy?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Of course, you are the only one who have a word, but also you, colleague Peca, this applies to all of us, I warn you that a lot of times during the discussion of others everyone begins to chat a little and then this little bit spreads into a lot and finally becomes a noise disturbing even for you now. You have the right, you are the only one who speaks, and everyone else is obliged to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Mr. Anderlich, I sincerely hope you have heard the words of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u34	However, as regards the speech of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. on these so-called narrow party interests, it should be pointed out that, of course, disagreement with the candidates does not yet constitute a narrow party interest; it simply means that the candidate does not agree with the judicial backlog on one hand, or that it may not agree with the tax exemptions for foreigners, or perhaps it does not agree with the fact that domestic economic operators are not equal or prioritized. This may also be the result, or perhaps this is the reason for the disagreement, so that in this case or so, at least by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we strongly oppose such an argument if those who do not support ministers are narrowly party-oriented. According to my assessment even earlier, I will not say this, but I only estimate that those who support the proposed names without discussion, without question - many of you, have been on the committee about these, but you have only raised your hand for the minister because more or less of the Prime Minister is coming, that is, the Liberal Democracy, to lead you to your decision, or your decisions are due to narrow party interests. I am sorry that today's opening session has begun with the presentation of the Committee's positions. So whenever the committees are in this national council, or at least as important a matter as today, or around ordinary "laws", it comes out that, above all, those who follow our work get the feeling: that the working body as some kind of profession in this national assembly agreed, why the opposition does not agree. Then, of course, it must be made clear that the working body is nothing more than a political body in the same power ratio as this national assembly. Which means, in this National Assembly, DeSUS, the United Letter and the Liberal Democracy succeeds in bringing every matter to bear any marking, procedure and later into force; the same applies to working bodies. So listening to these stories about working bodies, how quality individual answers to the questions raised, is quite meaningless. From my own experience at the hearing of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Agriculture, I can say that the chairman even interrupted me at that moment and expressed the wish that I should not stall anymore. How, then, can a person who is convinced, or he tells a person that he is slowing down when he wants to talk to others in a meaningful way, doing his job in such a quality way? I want to say that the opinion of the working body is far from being of some kind, but it is only a reflection of the composition as we have in the national assembly. However, allow me to touch individual ministerial candidates, for whom I say in advance, like most in the National Assembly, I know they will be chosen. As far as Mr Pavliha, the first minister candidate, the Minister of Transport, is concerned, it must be said that at the presentation of his views or statements on his candidacy, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, two foundations. The first foundation was so-called tolls or motorways in our country, where I have to point out the disagreement of the political party I represent at this time. This is a disagreement with the direct acceptance that the price will rise on the basis of directives of the European Union and that we have to give the Slovenians "hand down" here as regards the tolls that we will pay in our transport from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia. If this is so self-evident that there is nothing we can do about it, why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not shown sufficient credibility and before entering the European Union has told us where all the costs that will rise without the domestic parliament, the domestic legislative or executive branch of the government having any possibility of affecting it. No, at the time it was said, the financial consequences, the greater or the smaller, will not be. Today, too, we hear an answer in the advocacy or last week in the field of road transport, about which content in the pre-election period, before the European Union referendum, there was no talk - but not c. The next area that Mr Pavliha presented or responded to was the question of railways or rail transport, perhaps also as a result of the question raised to him by his mother's working body. Mr Pavliha, or the Minister's candidate, said that his work would be directed or based on two types of continuity. In short, his way of working will be based on continuity. And that is precisely why Mr Pavliha is unacceptable as Minister for that area. Because of the continuity of this area, this National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, allows for all the anarchy that is taking place within Slovenian railways. But this is not entirely within Slovenian railways, but only at the top of the pyramid. We have told several times, both at the press and at the examination of individual laws in the field of railway content, what is happening in Slovenian railways or holding company. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never once said how it will act. We said that contracts with individual entities are also over 200 million, or I apologize, over 50 million Slovenian tolars per year, which has been constant for 5 or 6 years, to provide different legal services. But of course it's just one company. For the same holding company, a number of lawyers provide legal services. That Slovenian railways have more than 10 public relations agencies. And all of these contracts are free of competition or no invitation to tender. And this National Assembly, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all the "chegna" positive. And it is quite self-evident that Slovenian railways create a loss, of course, that they are not able to cover even within their own organisation obligations, let alone liabilities for investments. But this national assembly is never asked about the government's proposals - and since I am talking about the continuity of the government, it is still important to me - on a proposal from the government we meet every three months, how to replace, guarantee or guarantee money for Slovenian railways. Last week we met with 35 billion Slovenian Tolars when the government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that, of course, in exchange for an increase in public debt, which is already much larger in our country than it once was in the former SFRJ and where we all talked about how much public debt it is that this public debt will bury us, from this public debt it is no longer possible to dig up, in Slovenia today we have a much larger public debt per capita. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia is still a Slovenian railway, so that they can be able to contract with all those companies for which they have the same employed people within their sectors. And that seems to everyone to be self-evident. And in the National Party, we fear that this self-determination will take the form of continuity or continuation of work, as advocated by the Minister's candidate, Mr Pavliha. That's why he's unacceptable to us right now. I already told the Minister's candidate at the hearing that I could give him a list of these contracts that have a common value so that any honest and dishonest Slovenian would have a headache, but he did not show that desire. I hope, however, that when Mr Pavliha is elected as Minister, he will try to fix or resolve these matters within Slovenian railways. And I hope, after all the probable impossibility, that we will not meet with any financial implications law in this National Assembly until these things that take place in this holding company without a call for tender without even knowing the supervisory authority of this company that the Minister will not come to this State Assembly for any new financial means. Regrettably, this National Assembly is very easy to share with financial resources, unaware of the fact that we are increasing public debt when we take it or when we take it from that title. Of course, it would be much more responsible and, in my opinion, with much more seriousness, we would approach the adoption of such laws if there were also any sanctions provided for our decisions, but I do not believe that anyone is willing to listen in this national assembly. But until our decisions go unsanctioned until, of course, none of us does, how he's going to decide anything, because you know that public money is from nobody's money, how he works with him, we know. Hereafter, Mr Pogačnik, candidate for Minister of Agriculture. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are pleased that there is a change in this area. We believe that the management of the agricultural base under Mr Butom has been insufficiently effective, that this is one of those resources that has not only taken a small step forward, but has even taken a step back, especially as regards acquisition, but not financial resources, but the obligations to be in the form of a new administration and, of course, to acquire obligations for the Slovenian farmer and to put it in place in comparison with the non-competitive situation in the context of a related activity within the framework of the European Union. We sincerely hope that Mr Pogačnik, as future minister, will not continue the work that Mr Booth has outlined before him. We also sincerely hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will no longer have so-called public servants tourism near the Ministry of Agriculture. Let's say that in 2001 alone, this is, unfortunately, the only information I have and is obtained on the basis of the parliamentary question that I raised in that year only on the basis of so-called tourism, the travel of officials of the Ministry of Tourism or Services within this ministry has been paid daily for over $100,000. Where else are the travel costs and the mileage?Oh, my God! In one year they are at this ministry, if we look at it, it is 365 days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, when usually not working, over 620 different visits, excursions, interviews, fair visits, etc. From our knowledge of this fact, we can even rejoice that Minister Booth has done what he has done during this period, given the extent to which his most important personnel have been abroad, around the world and across Europe. That is why we want or are happy that there is a change in agriculture. Hereafter, Mr Cwickl, the candidate for the Minister for European Affairs, we must say that the candidate is, of course, quite well known both to this national assembly and to a certain financial circle in this country. Unfortunately, however, this science also has negative consequences, if, according to our assessment, its actions were to the detriment of our country rather than to the benefit of our country. According to our assessment, Mr Cvikl, in order to gain the confidence of the Slovenian National Party or the votes of members of the Slovenian National Party, should, in particular, take more visible steps or even take steps to prevent this sale during the period of sale to the Belgian NCB. According to our assessment, a huge damage was done to the domestic, Slovenian economy, especially in the wake of the fact that in 1994 this National Assembly adopted a law on rehabilitation or that this National Assembly provided financial resources for the rehabilitation of two banks in our country, both the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor. For this he issued several series of bonds and thus charged public debt. At the same time, this National Assembly, in its previous mandate, has also concluded, with a two-thirds majority, a constitutional majority, in order to adopt a special privatisation law in the process of privatisation of the banking system, which will return this money to all those who have paid for rehabilitation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not do so at the time of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr Cwickl was at the Ministry of Finance at the time, and he was also within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank. We estimate that, as always, when such things have happened, citizens and citizens have briefly withdrawn. And it would be expected that we should not elect a candidate for a minister who has participated more or less indirectly or directly in such a business, according to my assessment, one of the major transactions of transparent infringements of Slovenian legislation and of the laws adopted by the legislative branch of government. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was informed, if not otherwise, of this irregularity on my part. But as always [[Mr. Rop, current terminator, was then Minister of Finance]] They just showed all ignorance and said, yes, there is nothing we can do if we adopted a kind of strategy for long-term development in 1994. Today, of course, things are different. There is yet another argument why we cannot give support to Mr Brickle within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We must say further to Mr Lahovnik, the candidate for Minister of Economy, that we have read his professional past with interest; that we have agreed with a number of his thesis, decision or opinion in the past, particularly as regards the brewing war, where we believe he correctly represented the argument of domestic weight. On the other hand, we must say that we were very skeptical or even disappointed in his role under the so-called BTC takeover. We are afraid or at this point we have been in a dilemma - and we hope to resolve this dilemma on the continuation of today's session - whether Mr Lakhovnik gives priority to capital or gives priority to the state. According to our assessment, we must not look at both concepts, whether it be a capital interest or a state interest, together, because unfortunately they do not always go; we usually need to know - and I believe that Mr Lahovnik knows these matters - and we hope that he will also be able to separate. As for Mr Lahovnik, however, it is important to say that his wishes in the context of the presentation on the labour market after the promotion of foreign investments, according to our assessment, have some shortcomings, according to my assessment of the very important shortcomings, where is the promotion of domestic investment, where is the domestic investment flow and how with domestic economic operators. Why continue with the tradition of Mrs Petrinova, who, when considering the proposal for a law on the prevention of restriction of competition and the law on acquisitions offered to this national assembly and to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for admission within the Slovenian National Party, said that the law was not current and was not necessary and even earlier in favour of the Republic of Slovenia and that in the interest of the State tax relief for foreigners. The trend of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the tendency of the Slovenian National Party, went in a completely different direction. According to our assessment, we are still called Republic of Slovenia, although you have accepted a new 3.a. Article of the Constitution, which transfers part of its sovereignty to international entities, in our case the institution of the European Union and the military liaison of NATO. Nevertheless, we should know that ministers are still ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are still Members of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows that our priority objective should be citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, I am afraid that the latest developments in this National Assembly and the governments of the Republic of Slovenia indicate that our exclusive motto or motto of the National Assembly and the governments are simply whether or not it will be foreign after the time of the year, or whether it will not be foreign for us to accept something or not. And when foreigners change their minds within a month, the government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with a new law. This happened, I think three, four months ago, with a government proposal for a takeover law. When the government has already put its law into procedure, it has subsequently detained it from the procedure or procedure because a new instruction has come to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or a warning that the bill is too liberal. Below is the last candidate for Minister, Mrs Cerarjevo. It has been mentioned or noted that the effectiveness of the public prosecutors is not measured on the basis of the number of actions, but rather measured on the basis of the quantity and severity of such cases. She was aware that her work was being subjected to political tactics. Maybe, maybe not. On the other hand, we are pleased that Mrs Cerarjeva hoped and was one of those which, of course, resulted today or days ago when our Minister or your Minister Rupl wrote that she also initiated this procedure against him, which suggests at least respect for that standard of equality before the law. Thus, at least in the context of the national party's parliamentary group, such as the speakers before me, who have read to her something that she has done directly against them, we do not have the impression against Mrs Cerarjevo. However, we do have a different, substantive statement set up by my colleague Bogdan Barovic at her hearing. This is a question of the sustainability of the judicial mandate. I sincerely hope or even believe that everyone in this National Assembly knows the Slovenian National Party's desire to limit the permanent judicial mandate. In 2003, when considering the law on judicial function, we proposed to this National Assembly to adopt a decision limiting the permanent judicial mandate. At that time, in spite of the anger of the leader of the largest parliamentary group, this national assembly adopted this decision. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, did not take account of the decision of the national assembly. Even more so, within the framework of the constitutional changes that we have received in that set of amendments sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a new draft of constitutional amendments on the sustainability of the judicial mandate has been written. In short, if a person obtains a judicial mandate, this judicial mandate shall be completed, irrespective of its effectiveness and irrespective of the delays caused. We later tried to initiate constitutional changes in this area on our own within the National Party, but unfortunately, as you probably know, a certain amount or a certain quorum of the signatures sent is needed to change the constitution, so we failed. According to our assessment or Mrs Cerarjev, she would deserve support if, of course, her desire and the view of the judiciary in our country were different. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenian National Party's vision and vision are different, and unfortunately, with the government's vision. According to our assessment, the judiciary is one of those issues in our society that could be done in a very simple way effectively. Thus, we see that various studies are coming to Slovenia on the effectiveness, inefficiency of the judiciary. A year ago, a so-called tweening project was carried out, which showed that in the roughly the same European region, compared to Slovenia, the number of judges is, of course, much smaller than in our country, but despite the fact that the number of judicial arrears is much smaller, compared to the salaries in Germany or the comparable European region, the salaries of the judge are significantly lower than those of the judges in our country. As for the human resources support or professional support, we can also see that there are better Slovenian judges, as far as spatial equipment is concerned, on better Slovenian judges. As regards the effectiveness of the resolution of individual cases, it has been shown that in one field of case law in Slovenia judges resolve approximately 600 cases and in this same comparable European region over 2000 cases. Despite all these well-known facts and despite the need to encourage judges somehow, raise them from that position, and do not resent me, the sloth is also an animal when they feel untouchable in all areas. Unfortunately, the work so far and apparently at least on the basis of the reply given by the candidate for Minister Cerar, we cannot expect any changes in this area. If, of course, her answers were different, she would also have the support of the National Party, and unfortunately not. To conclude, even in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we regret that Prime Minister Rob has decided to propose candidates to this national assembly in full so far as he has made it impossible, of course, to meet each of them individually, and the result would probably be to have better ministers in particular areas. But I believe quality is the only thing that counts. Equally quality should be the reason why an individual candidate should be supported, why not not. It is not enough to hear from the head of the individual working body in this national assembly, but this candidate has been good or even far away and we hear the individual chairman of the committee to even congratulate the president on such an extraordinaryly fantastic choice. Of course, it's the speech of a man who overcomes a little of his own self. But at least in this National Assembly it would make sense for us all to realize that ministers are an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that if we want this government to work well, ministers must also be able to work. In the National Party, because the list is entirely, we cannot vote for individuals for, with those with whom we agree, and against those against whom we disagree, so unfortunately we cannot fully support the lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The list of candidates for the appointment of ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has now been identified by the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Now I call to the word of the Members and Members. First, I give the floor to Mrs. Maja Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates, the well-respected assembly! Last year at about this time, Mrs Cerarjeva, as the Attorney General of the National Assembly, you received two, you might say, non-trustees. The report on the work of prosecutors in 2001 was marked as insufficient on the Internal Policy Committee and you were asked to complete it. At the same time, the commission of inquiry dealing with the background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk rejected your report on the elimination of all obstacles to full cooperation, as you said, between the commission and the prosecution alone. Although the obstacles to the reports in the first and second cases were formally removed, the feeling remained poor. Prosecutors can successfully solve 1,000 rich cases and fail on one big one, and the public will be convinced that they are not against serious forms of crime. Even in the European Union, the effectiveness of justice is measured by how it can deal with the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, not the smoking thieves. After four years, the subscribers for the brutal attack on a journalist are not yet behind bars. Nor has the prosecution been effective, especially in the pursuit of economic crime. Here I am referring to the matter of SIB, the Zbilski Gaj, Orion, the purchase of operating tables, or the search for postwar beatings. The prosecution did not respond most of the time until the media made these things public as big stories. But it responded incredibly quickly when, for example, there was a Udbov data on the Internet or in the case of an emerging diplomatic academy. The outcome of many major processes, which have also become so due to the extraordinary media attention you have contributed to yourself, is still uncertain. This is where I think of things like Glavar, Schuštar and some others. The situation in the judiciary is critical and can no longer be excused by the frustratement of statistical data. The trust of the people in the judiciary has fallen below the critical limit. It is true that no one outside of the judiciary, in order to have a legal state and democracy, must be affected by the judiciary as an independent and independent branch of government, but that a trial is ensured within a reasonable period of time and the ongoing and professional work of the judicial authorities in the interest of all, and therefore the State is obliged to take all measures that allow respect for this constitutional right or equal rights under the European Convention. The backlog is one of the most pressing problems. It is a matter of everyday matters where citizens cannot achieve their right and, if they have already achieved it, cannot execute it or cannot be registered in the land book. It is still true that the right to set aside is also denied. The Supreme Court has been repeating for some time that enforcement and the Land Book are not among the real backlogs, but the fact is that neither an individual nor a firm can do much to help with a judicial decision if it is not executed. It is also not possible to say that the urgency of data in the land register does not have a decisive impact on the safety of real estate and thus on legal certainty in its entirety. The worst situation is the resolution of enforcement and land matters, in part in fair, legacy and unfair cases. Failure to implement judicial decisions constitutes one important issue in the judiciary. Ineffective enforcement means that all judicial proceedings were prejudicial and that the individual who applied to the court for the protection of his or her right did not reach the expected protection. This is unacceptable for the rule of law because effective legal protection is the foundation of every serious country. The executioners perform only about 45 thousand executions a year. At such a pace of resolution, this would mean that it would take at least a few years to complete the executions remaining at the end of the year. In particular, your response to the Committee's presentation on the question of what you will do in this area has only been reduced to significant cases. I expected you to provide information on what the working group was supposed to set up by the Ministry of Justice in the autumn of 2003 and to find out what measures it had proposed to improve the situation. What answers are available to the question, What are the reasons for ineffective enforcement? Is the network of executives adequate and their effectiveness sufficient? Is the case law in the courts appropriate in this regard and is the internal organisation of work in the courts appropriate? It is very important whether courts and enforcement agencies are adequately implementing the necessary professional, organisational and other technical measures, because otherwise we may live in a country where the protection of rights is left to the will of the stronger. Without public confidence in the judiciary and its irrevocable reputation and authority, there is no rule of law. The most important are the people who work in the courts. Judges work easier and better if the judiciary is moral authority. Whether they are judges of the court and the judiciary as a whole of moral authority depends largely on them and also on the environment in which they operate. The statements made by the pre-accession adviser at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dukoff, who, in a large way, angered our judges, would be worth taking into account in a number of works. In his opinion, Slovenian judges should work more and external control by the Ministry should be carried out consistently, because without effective supervision, every system comes together. There is no doubt that quality and quantity must be raised and accountability increased. Then it will no longer be necessary to say that we even need an urgent court to react in time to the courts to register quickly and bring matters to an end. Your predecessor didn't make it in three years, and I'm afraid you won't be in six months either. The very reputation you want to restore to the judiciary isn't something you can build overnight, but it goes up and down as the old people say. And for your success, it would take a better journey. That's why my vote will be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Franco Sušnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Honorable assembly, distinguished candidates, Madam Vice President! In fourteen days, Slovenia will enter the European Union and, if ever, now, at the time of its actual entry into the European Union, ministers who are in no doubt in control of the situation should have a government that is in line with all the challenges. Unfortunately, today we can see that this will not be the case because a third of the government is changing because today we are appointing five new ministers who will not be able to carry out their duties at the time of entry into the European Union as ministers should. This is especially so because it is clear that for one month after these ministries everyone is only dealing with who and what will be the minister and what will become of me under the new minister. This engagement of all staff at these ministries will continue after the term of office. Then we arrive at the time of our annual vacations and the term of office ends. That's the reality. A few months ago, I was able to hear from one of the MEPs in this National Assembly, and I remembered well when it was said that, in the case of deleted human rights, they did not have a price. What is now happening as a final consequence of the complications that have arisen as a result of the removal policy is increasingly preventing me from actually doing so. No one today can properly assess what impacts, especially on the real sector. I am thinking, above all, of the newly appointed Minister for Economy and Agriculture, which represents to the greatest extent this real sector, and what will be the impact of this exchange on our accession to the European Union also in terms of the exchange of the Minister for European Affairs. And from that point of view, that call is quite understandable. The price of human rights to the account deleted, including in terms of the exchange of a third of ministers in the government, Prime Minister Rob, is likely to be high. Look, it's just not possible to get rid of one weird, powerful impression that I was getting when I was monitoring the news that accompanied the submission of the resignation statements by the ministers of the People's Party. It seemed as if these gentlemen had dropped one heavy burden from their shoulders. With a smile and just a relief, they made those resignation statements. I can understand them. Ministers who are responsible and who will have to have resigned and should assume the greatest burden of responsibility for all the unsustainable challenges and problems we will face when we join the European Union. At the presentation of Dr. Pogačnik's candidate for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I was surprised that in his assessment of the situation he had practically confirmed everything that we had been alerting Minister Booth throughout his term of office. He confirmed the wrong agricultural policy of the minister, the same government he represents and replaces. Greater confirmation by the expert, by the first veterinarian, of the irregularity of this ministry I simply cannot wish. I must rightly say that I was surprised that I did not expect such an assessment of Mr Pogačnik's situation. However, it is also quite critical and, with a sense of time, he said that within four days of being a candidate, he was unable to present a more comprehensive offer because he was more cautious in predicting the resolution of all the missed actions of former agricultural policy. Last but not least, I don't blame him, but the fact that I am convinced that the agricultural area where we are losing virtually all sovereignty is the most important thing to do, and that there will also be the most problems of integration into the European Union. The question now is whether your ministry, Mr Pogačnik, will not be able to act on these challenges, given that it is practically autonomous and sovereign, neither you nor your ministry nor the government will be able to act because, in my opinion, it is too vague. One fundamental question arises whether, I think, no, because time will slip through your fingers, provide comparable farming conditions comparable to neighbouring countries, with the country of Koroška, with the country of Furlania-Julia. Here the differences in farming conditions are so large, so obvious that they simply do not tolerate any criticism and will be necessary and necessary. All the above-standard agricultural policy under the leadership of Minister Booth must be revised. That's what you predicted. I will, I will tell you, I sincerely wish that we could succeed, no matter what I have said before, but allowing a very short term to do so. The situation in agriculture is in fact very problematic. Who will not be able to stop the deterioration of the economic situation of the Slovenian farmer, who will not be able to stop the deterioration of Slovenian farms, is a problem which the Minister's candidate, Mr Pogačnik, even when you are a minister, will not be caught up in for a short period of time. I think you're going to have very big and serious problems that will show up with the entry into the European Union; it's going to be bad here. In this regard, I would like to remind you of another point which, last but not least, points to the success of Mr Potočnik as former Minister for European Affairs. We are all aware of the unpleasant fact that, with May 1st, only one border crossing at the Schengen border with Croatia will be qualified in terms of the implementation of veterinary health checks. What will be the problems, taking into account this fact, we probably have no idea, neither me nor you, in the fact that our food processing industry is very connected and has a large market in the territory of the republics of the former Yugoslavia. This is a very big mistake that should not have happened and that you need to correct as soon as possible, because there will be even bigger problems than there would otherwise be. We have imposed on you a number of nonsensees of agricultural policy, Mr candidate, on your presentation. Some of the answers were quick, expected, on some matters, understandable, even because of time you did not think or allow time to pass. However, I think that it takes more than six months of hard work to fix everything that was missing in this area. Because of this, and especially because we confirm you today, the new ministers as a list, and because of the well-known complications and disagreements between the foreign minister and the candidate for the Minister of Justice, I will not support this list, because, last but not least, this also indicates that the government's functioning in this critical period will be distorted or at least disrupted if nothing else. As for Mr Lahovnik, who has ambitions to take over the Ministry of the Economy. I do not think that you have responded to one of the most important dilemmas here or that your response has gone towards the fact that the Ministry of the Economy is not responsible for payment non-discipline, which mainly burdens and complicates the conditions of operation of small economic operators who are already unprepared to enter the European Union. I think you may have escaped here, and yet you will take this into account in your work. Incompetence in agriculture and the unwillingness of small and micro-enterprises to join the European Union are the most crucial problems and the problem that will arise in the first months of accession to the European Union. That's why you have a hard job ahead of you in this area. I hope you can convince people at the Ministry to start working and thinking differently. Not everything can be done by replacing the minister. At the Ministry of the Economy, things did not go as they should. That's what we've been warning you all along. This is probably what Mr President of the Prime Minister noted, and this is probably also the reason for his proposal to replace the Minister of Economy in such an unfortunate time, before the end of the term of office. Like I said, I'm not voting for the list. Once again, I am convinced that the replacement of a third of the government during this period, during the period of accession to the European Union and in the period before the end of the mandate for Slovenia is not good. And unfortunately, once again, unfortunately, this has occurred mainly because of the inadequate policy of resolving the problem of the deleted. That's indisputable. If this problem were not put at the forefront of all problems in the Republic of Slovenia, the issue of so-called deleted would not have been the departure of the ministers of the People's Party from the government. So again, what should not have happened is that due to favouring a handful of people, we will be carrying all Slovenians and Slovenes with consequences. Which will unquestionably happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting a candidate for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Zdenko Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Mrs. Zdenka, can you please get up?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! [[...]] I'd like to ask your permission if I could sit down because I'd like to help myself with the information I have here before me. Would you allow me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u43	It's a practice in this room that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u44	We're standing. [[...]] Yeah, just like in court. So I have to follow your practice. Today, quite a few information has been given here, which I would like to explain to you because it shows a different picture than corresponds to the facts that I know firsthand. You judge me today as a person who has a responsible role in the field of justice, and from my actions, you also come from your assessment of whether I will be able to do the work of the Minister as required by the interests of this country. I would like to give you some information and convince you that those who attribute so much negativity to me are wrong, especially illegality. I have to admit, I don't admit any illegality. I may have been wrong at some point, but I certainly didn't do anything different than the law. The first comment is generally a flat-rate accusation that we have persecuted only chicken thieves and that all other criminals with serious crimes are at large. The truth is the other way around. The state's attorneys followed your lead, and we used alternative methods for this crime that you call it, a serious crime or a hen thief. Those offences where a sentence of up to 3 years of imprisonment is prescribed have been dealt with following a suspended prosecution, settlement and criminal order. And I can cheer you up with information that we've been very successful here. To illustrate, we did a job for 13 district judges for a year. Thus, the crime of theft was dealt with primarily in a way that saved the country the costs of judicial proceedings and burdened the courts with judicial cases so that they could devote themselves to other important matters. The next sad conclusion is that, unfortunately, our prisons and detentions are overcrowded. They're not empty. Look at this. I do not think it is in fact an honour for our country, because Slovenia is not a criminal state, but it is a consequence of the fact that we are one important geographical transit area and are dealing not only with our own citizens, but also those who are either members of organised associations or otherwise find themselves in the hands of our rights. In order to illustrate that the crime that was dealt with in the past year was very important, let me tell you that we reached five sentences in 2003 of 30 years in prison. This is a maximum sentence that can be imposed in our country. And in the sex areas where you have given us guidance to be stricter, 19 years in prison have just been imposed, 15 years in prison, and many more prison sentences in areas where we have sometimes witnessed conditional convictions themselves. This vision of what a law enforcement authority is, the state prosecutor's office, and now I'm also talking about a court, because my task is to look into all the departments, is unfair. The courts were the ones who issued such judgments, after the huge mega-Romanian trials, to mention only our community of state prosecutors for specific cases, which is only persecuting organised crime, in 2003 "deserved", in terms of " 160 years in prison". These were numerous hearings, only one of our prosecutors participated in 52 cases between May and September in Ptuj, where 22 defendants were convicted. I don't know how many prisons there were, it doesn't matter, but I want to tell you what kind of efforts have been made, and that's already in the detection phase, which means police work. Then comes the work of a prosecutor who has a prosecution and then comes a trial, a court that passes a sentence, a sanction or an exoneration judgment. I can repeat this information that we have been in the past year, the annual report will each time on your desk, reach a high level of conviction, disregard for a negative judgment, which is mostly a matter of court, 90% of the convictions. However, it is correct that the State Prosecutor does not always succeed with the charge, as it is imposed, because the criteria that lead to the work of the Prosecutor are not the criteria under which judges must be treated, these are two different things. The prosecutor goes into prosecution if there is a reasonable suspicion that someone has committed a crime and the court only convicts if there is 100% certainty. And that's the way it is. They would be a poor country if they showed too high a level of conviction and, on the other hand, too low a level of prosecution. This assessment is certainly in your hands, I have only underlined these elements that you will know that this flat-rate assessment, which has been given today as an indication of the bad part of the prosecution under my leadership, is not true. I have to say this. When I took over the state's attorney's office in 1999, there were 7,000 files missing, more than 1,000 years in the prosecution's case. He's been running the D.A.'s office for two years. We have a three-month reasonable rescue period that we have set ourselves. Remember, in our work, that the state prosecutors in this country were never a problem for the European Union, we always met all the criteria, we had so-called modern legislation, not only on paper, but we also implemented it and that is the specificity of our Slovenia. Not that we have laws, but that we enforce them. Let me also point out that last year, when you gave us a criminal warrant that entered into force on 13 July 2003, in September, we have 638 cases pending, of which 141 cases have already been decided. This is the kind of activity that I appreciate and that I think it is necessary to assess the effectiveness of an institution. I know for a fact that the success of the institution and the chairman is also assessed in concrete cases and those that seem to you to be controversial and I always listen to them, and they have been denied to me today as the failure of me personally and the prosecution. The task of the chairman is an objective responsibility, and in this area I think I have done a lot after my assessment. Control is in place, professional examinations are in place, transfer of knowledge up and down, and yet something remains. And this is the independence and independence of the prosecutor and the judge. No one in this country can, under the law we have, direct the prosecutor or instruct him to solve a particular case. Specific matters at the first stage are dealt with by the District Attorneys, but not by me, I do not have a bank in the SIB drawer, I do not have any of these cases in my drawer, I get it on the table when someone is dissatisfied and makes a supervisory complaint or when we are talking at the College of Experts about how it would be possible to establish better inter-sectoral cooperation, to speed up a matter at a certain level. That's what we usually do in college. This way is not only by law, but also by practice. When I took the office of Attorney General, I put all the things that used to be on the higher prosecutions or in the group as exceptional cases, in the first stage of my regular work. That's how the Kos-Rance thing went. And let me get this straight, and I've explained it a lot, and maybe one more time. Mrs Barbara Brezigar had this issue when she was the leader of the group, and she made a proposal for investigative actions. I said that it would be good if we discussed this at the College of Prosecutors, and we considered it. With her signature and intact, this proposal went to court. This can be verified, this is a file that the court has in the archives, it's impossible to lie here. I didn't stop anyone from going anywhere. However, when the case was resolved in court, an amendment was adopted [[This Parliament has adopted it]] which gave the group organised competence; rather, the group had in the part of the case assigned to them by the Attorney General, Mr Drobnič, who was in front of me. He assigned a group of certain cases, specific files. There was no legal basis to limit this assignment. In 1999, you passed a law, a novelty, on the state prosecutor's office, where you said the group deals only with organised crime, and this is where it operates in organised business associations, in the fields of drugs, drugs, pardons, in the field of prostitution, trafficking in human beings and, in so far as these are the most difficult forms of crime, if it is of all national importance or even international links. And that's what I'm holding on to. That is why this case, where the crime, which is in fact in summary proceedings, has only been prescribed for up to three years, took place regularly with the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. And the suit was dropped. I would like to point out that she was rejected by a competent district attorney. And there were two victims. Both were taught to continue the persecution as injured within eight days. Just like in the Depala case. It was the same thing. There the prosecution was dismissed, Smolnikar was taught to take over the persecution, and he took over. And since he took over, the case went back to court, an investigation was initiated. In this case, the injured party was not considered necessary and did not take over; or one of them went to a civil suit. Civil proceedings, however, have completely different rules than criminal rules. Therefore, these two procedures cannot be equated. I'm sure it's not the place to explain it professionally right now, but that's the fate of the matter. When I talk about specific matters, there is always an obvious SIB bank, Orion and some others, Zbilski Gaj. These are just, how would you say, names that are understandable to people because they know that these were events in which a large number of people and companies were involved. But for the Attorney General, that's not how naming means anything. The SIB bank is for us a name, an act, a place, a time, huh? That's the only way we can deal with this. And it is not true that we received from the city municipality of Ljubljana, the parliamentary group of Members of the SDS, the complaint. We received a magnetogram recording a meeting of the municipal municipality when Members argued about whether or not the bank should be purchased. One was against, one was for. Such a role or, as it may be said, material could not be considered as a complaint. There was no name here, no action. And there's something else I need to point out. The prosecutor can't act before the act is committed. We always come later, the police come first after the act is done. If the bank isn't bought, there's no telling what's gonna happen and what's gonna happen. And for the first time, we were able to take this matter seriously when we received the audit report. And there were business events, names that made up your mind. A criminal act means that you commit a crime against a duty to do something wrong, and it has to be for a purpose. We don't have enough to make an administrative mistake. This will certainly make our country very clear about the European Union's resources, where it is precisely separating itself from what is a financial error or an administrative error, what is a crime or criminal act. There must also be a purpose and money goes elsewhere or elsewhere as it would be right, as in law, regulation or business decision, in the contract. Therefore, the SIB bank has been examined and is about to go to the court for an investigation. The complaint, as you know, was filed at the end of December 2003, a lot of materials were examined by the police and three persons were mentioned in the complaint. These three people will go to court. And the same is true of other crimes, other affairs. It's not true they're in the D.A.'s lockers. They're not. I'll tell you what, the Red Cross, we have a charge in Cyprus, everyone else in the investigation request. The real guy's at the police station, he's still coming out. The SIB bank, as I said, is going to court, a request for investigation is being formed. We've had more than six months required for an investigation before a court of law. The Triglav insurance company at the police station. Metal - a request for an investigation before a court of law. Elan was mentioned today, the police are working on him, so he's in charge of the indictment, not in the D.A.'s office. Sicura has been in court for three months now, so she's also in court. Clinical Center, you've missed the operating tables, four responsible persons and a legal person all requests for a court-martialed investigation. Of course, it is very difficult for me to summarise those specific cases that interest someone, but, for example, also the veterinary administration will probably be from his area - everything is in the request for an investigation before a court. I wouldn't bore you with these specific cases, I've only given them to convince you that I'm always saying the same thing. I'm telling the truth, which I can support with arguments. You can go look into our records and you'll see that I've told you the truth. The other facts I can't prove, I'm not going to point out. And now the criticism of three of my colleagues, the state's attorneys. It was very unfair today that you put Fisher, Boliteto and Glavar in one basket, and that under corruption. That's no way to treat people. This, however, I am very disappointed that someone can even look at these three cases with the same eyes Fisher Gorazd was the head of the district attorney's office, who placed his friend in a higher place against the rules. She did her job, though. And she earned that income she got, even though she didn't work where she was supposed to. And he was dismissed from the post of head of the District Attorney in Ljubljana for this offence, which we have assessed to be detrimental to the reputation of the State Prosecutor. I think that this is a very severe and very appropriate sanction. I suggested it. And I'll tell you, it went to the Supreme Court twice, now it's legal. Not to think it's so easy for us to achieve some kind of punishment in a disciplinary procedure for someone. Now you think it's obvious, tomorrow, when you judge, you'll tell me what that is. That's how it is. Second thing. Pain Jožica. This is a longtime prosecutor, a good operative. Now she has made one mistake in her behaviour and I have also assessed her so badly that I have proposed discharge from the post of leader of the group. A group of U.S. attorneys is our elite unit. Our top team. We can't have a man at her head who's somehow relevant in his behavior. This is an international gig. And therefore, my initiative is to see the Minister of Disposal from the post of leader. But from work, that's why I wouldn't throw it, sorry, no. My assessment is that you have to appreciate the merit of a man who has worked and done a lot of good. When he made a mistake, it was dosed. Just like the judge. Individually. They can be the same, but people aren't. Therefore, the penalties are also different. And for me to punish, I gave only initiative. I think that our government, which is responsible for this, will be able to properly assess the extent to which this case needs to be sanctioned. Both operatives who are still working and serving bread in the D.A. are by no means comparable to the Glavar case. Comrade Glavar, a colleague of mine, fell into corruption. He, however, is in a criminal procedure legally instituted for corruption. These mistakes that my colleague and Fisher have made, and Boliteva, one is a violation, the other is a violation of reputation, we cannot compare with the criminal procedure for corruption. And I would like to see a prosecutor in any country or government holding the office of the head of a human prosecutor who is in a criminal proceedings for corruption. I don't think so. And I think the Glavar is making a mistake for me. The D.A. did our job. We brought the case before the court. Why the court doesn't solve it, it's in their jurisdiction. Believe me, if I become the Minister of Justice, that I will take a thorough look at this, because the manoeuvres in this process continue to shed a bad light on all those who have done so. And I have to say, this job wasn't easy. I must say that we have reviewed the entire operation of this prosecution and that the prosecution's colleagues on Ptuj have suffered many false convictions or mistrust in their work because what happened there has happened. In no way, however, this Supreme Court judgment, which has been clarified, cannot be regarded as a misjudgment of the Government or as a misjudgment of me, which was an incentive for this because it is clear that the matter is clear that only the government at the time of this case was on the table did not have the practice required today by the increased standards of trial. The Court is of the view that any decision must also have an actual explanation. This was the only explanation, but the facts were all the same as they were today. It's Rupel. Yeah, it was a serious matter for me. And I don't see why it would be wrong to say that. And a lot of other people are serious. They just didn't ask me to say it. I never go to television on my own initiative, I'm always asked, but we've refused many times. However, pressure from the public on our cases is so severe that it is very difficult to give up. The Media Act, however, says that every chairman must provide the press with complete, accurate and timely information. And in this millstone there are all the leaders in the judiciary, where we have cases where you have to protect the privacy of people who are involved in a particular case and on the other hand the public insists that we tell what happened. It's very difficult to hunt balance here. I think I'm pretty good at it. In fact, in this case, which is repeatedly mentioned, as in all others, it was necessary to test the grounds for suspicion in court. That's all we did. Weak prosecutors who would not do so should the Anti-Corruption Office assess the case as such. And to remember to say, the complaint against our officials, from the top to the municipal officials, is very large. We get a lot of critical records, but we'll make a case-by-case assessment of whether it's the basis for the process or not. I assure you that's what we're doing. And I would like to thank Mr. Pecchet, who was able to make a distinction that I liked something about this man, but I don't like something. And it's always like that, whenever you're dealing with a case, there are certain things that you can agree with, which you can't. And now I'm moving on to what Mr. Viceroy doesn't like. Our participation in the Commission, I think it was very good that we did a great deal of work, but the dilemma was what the powers and powers of the National Assembly as one branch of power to the judiciary as the other branches of government are. Our interpretation, which was before this case on Friday twice before, was such that the parliamentary commission has the objective of finding out whether, in any event, they are involved in an unacceptable way by the holders of public powers to political agents, politicians. Judges, prosecutors are not politicians, we can't be the subject of an investigation. We have work immunity Here is also a related mandate, because we could not decide if for any decision we shake, when someone will call us to account. Our control, for the prosecutions of the court and the defendants, is a complaint to the courts, to the Constitutional Court. This is the control that the legislation foresees. However, we cannot intertwine the work of one finding of perpetrators of crimes, nor can we intertwine the discovery of holders of political public powers. And we cleared that up here. We helped each other with the legal profession. And on Friday, this is all it is. The legal definition of an act is a professional question. And politics can't get mixed up here. You may think so, and I can tell you that even the court is not bound by the legal definition of the prosecutor. We can assess something for the murder, they can go on something else, say, to cause the death of negligence; or we can qualify in this case as a particularly serious bodily injury and someone will go on attempted murder - or vice versa. Most of the time, it's the opposite that we go to a stricter qualification and then it can get nicer, but here again, I have to say that the legal definition of the act had absolutely no consequences. The first prosecutor, Jelka Stumberger Mlakar, went to a particularly serious injury because Mr Petk’s doctor diagnosed him and provided him with such serious injuries that his life could be in danger. But it's a criminal code of particularly severe bodily injury. And the sufficient legal basis was that special operational means and methods could be used, and the procedure ran out. Of course, when the information is obtained later and it is determined by what means it was made, how the participants behaved, a different legal definition can be made, and so the prosecution is now being filed for attempted murder, i.e. after the strictest possible qualification. Mrs Jelka Štumberger Mlakar has repeatedly been the subject of criticism, as she has not done properly, I reiterate that her work can be assessed by its leaders, our audit committee and no one else. And the court is her control, if she makes a bad case, they'll be excused if she rejects the complaint, and that's not right, and the victim will succeed. That's it, we can't get involved - I can't assess the work of other institutions either, and I'm not doing that either. We never comment on judgment. We have a complaint against the judgments and this is the right path in the state of law. What happened? The magazine published a salary, the highest salary in Slovenj Gradc, wrongly attributed by Jelka Štumberger Mlakar, was for a colleague of hers who received the bill that month - and from January to June he received the bill back because he was making progress in the pay grade. It was a day of correction in this newspaper, and I think it was also published, just of course, unfortunately, we don't all read it. We read when the first news is, but we don't. So this is where she was wondering if she'd go into any other procedure. Well, that's not what she decided. I think I mostly answered the questions. Mrs Zupanova invited me to tell you what the Commission's findings were, which identified the reasons for the implementation. I've studied this, I just thought you'd probably be familiar with them. Therefore, the tasks of the group set up by the Ministry of Justice were to identify the reasons for the delays in the area of enforcement. And it turns out that there are some of them on the part of the executives, that there is still an inadequate network of executives, that they have major problems with obtaining debtors' data, that we have the wrong debtors, because companies, for example, are failing to know who is the rightful successor; that they are not properly organised and are not yet using all possible forms. It's about the executioners. Other participants are also causing unnecessary backlogs because the implementing proposals are incomplete, do not have all the necessary data, sometimes are submitted without the fees being paid, not all possible enforcement proposals are submitted, are proposed longer time delays; and, of course, debtors' insolvency. This is the biggest obstacle, of course, which is very difficult to influence. Well, there's more than one reason. One of the main ones I have cited is enforcement on the basis of a credible charter due to the multitude of cases. Any account that is not paid may be the basis for enforcement. Now let's just imagine, say, not paying RTV subscription. There could be hundreds of cases here right now. And it has been estimated in the judicial circles for a long time that this influx will have to be somewhat limited. I have also taken this as one of my tasks, if only I will be in this place, so that, together with colleagues who have experience in this area, they can find levers to take action to ensure that enforcement runs effectively. True, if you have only a judgment, but it is not executed, legal certainty is not guaranteed. I agree with that. With regard to Mr Doukoff's opinion, I deeply appreciate it. The D.A. also cooperated with him. I can only say from my own sphere that we have accepted many of his recommendations, not the law, because, in my opinion, it is not necessary for every intention to improve the results to change the law. But the law that is, must be implemented well, must be found those levers that help the law that is already in place to produce good results. My slogan:'selects the right path and responsibility for the result' is that in the prosecution, where we have so many instruments at our disposal, the state prosecutor - the same applies to the judge and, in fact, the same applies to the policeman, I speak for the criminal procedure - to decide which way the action will be carried out so that the result will eventually be achieved. Sometimes it's a delayed pursuit, the second time it's the toughest charge, the third time it's a mistrial to another country. In short, the possibility is great, and I think that it is the duty of every judicial official that this Parliament raises to this function to think about any concrete issue of how it would solve it in the most economic, most efficient, best way for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Candidate Cerarev. Yeah, I'll give you a word right away. A colleague of Kangler's was reported. At the request of the Prime Minister, I would just like to justify his absence for the obligations associated with the official visit of the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for a few hours, and then he will join the debate again. You wanted a replica? Please, you were mentioned in the debate and you have two minutes of time available.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I will try to keep the frame for two minutes, although it would be difficult to comment in two minutes on everything that has been said here in the good half hour. But since the candidate for minister mentioned that I don't like some things, I guess I'm the one who's going to judge what I like and what I don't like, I just want to touch that part. The penal code makes it clear when there is a particularly severe physical injury. Particularly serious bodily injury, you probably know this, in article 141, if I am not mistaken, I am now referring to the number, so that I cannot say exactly that it is the right number, it is written that particularly serious bodily injury is when the injury is permanently impossible to work. Fortunately, in the case of Mira Petka, this is not the case, and if such qualifications were in court, I believe today those who are imprisoned would be released. What I really don't like about the work of our system that you've been running so far and that you will, I believe that with the majority that you have, you've started running today, but it's because somehow people have established trust in the commission that I run, that the parents of the people who killed their children, and after two years nothing happened. And because they've lost confidence in your prosecution and the police, they're now turning to the National Assembly directly. I really don't like that, I don't like that someone else is talking to me, and I quote, "Mr. Erbežnik, I have already seen such decisions by prosecutors that he could be crazy or bribed to accept them, but I can't do anything about it." That's Mr. Mazzie's statement to your prosecutor. All these cases, which, of course, as I said, I cannot state in such a short time, send to me and I am obliged to warn you - whether I like it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Kangler, now you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Honourable candidate, distinguished candidates, President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament. Today we have four candidates and one candidate who will succeed three Slovenian People's Party ministers who have been "removed" from the government. I'll try to be louder, or I'm used to talking louder, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u49	You should not rely solely on the weight of the arguments, you should also say more out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u50	And two candidates, one of whom went to diplomacy and the other to Europe to work. Why is it that today we are discussing five candidates or candidates in the National Assembly today, given that I have recently agreed in the opposition that there has been a conflict within the coalition, a substantive conflict, where, on the proposal of the leader of the United Nations Group, we have been erased from the government because of deleted ". This is a fact, because of our vote on the interpretation against Minister Bohinc, because the Slovenian People's Party, in relation to the deleted, interpreted otherwise the constitutional decision or the dictatorship of the technical law and listened to those legal and some former constitutional judges and constitutional experts who felt otherwise than some others. The result was, the first to say a word, Mr Potč, that it was necessary for the People's Party to be "removed" due to the removal from the coalition, despite the fact that the President of the United Kingdom objected to this – that is a fact. If anyone thinks he wanted us, Members, to be expelled from the coalition, and the ministers would remain in the government, he is "fucking" wrong. The Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party did not follow this because they consistently adhered to the coalition contracts when the party is in government when performing important functions. At the outset, I would like to stress and at the same time replicate to my colleague Sušnik when he spoke about the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Pogačnik, and about Booth. Comrade Sušnik, I do not know if you are aware, Mr Pogačnik, this can confirm that Mr Pogačnik was invited every Monday or almost every Monday at nine o'clock to the College of Minister for Agriculture, Mr France Booth. And he had the opportunity to come to college, and he had the right to speak to the college, and he also warned about some things. Thus, on average today, the situation in agriculture in this way, because the Minister of the Slovenian People's Party has left the government, is unfounded and unfair. Minister Franci Booth was Mr Potočnik's deputy negotiator, then he met the work and I must be honest with you that, as far as the agricultural field is concerned, he has achieved a great deal within the coordination in Brussels. As far as he has achieved this, Slovenia will probably feel after entry, after May 1st, when it comes to breathing and breathing in the European Union. As far as some of the other candidates are concerned, I'm going to touch Mr. Squeak. I cannot oppose Mr Cwickle and his professional references, I publicly stated that I also supported him when he was a candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, although I was disappointed in my own way that he did not receive support from the coalition. If we strictly adhered to the United Letter and the Liberal Democracy, regardless of how they voted, Mr Swickl today would not be a candidate for the Minister for European Affairs, but would be the President of the Court of Auditors. It's important to ask yourself, colleagues and colleagues, why this didn't happen. Today, when the list is public, I am sure that all five candidates will be elected as a single list. Anyone at the top of the Liberal Democracy or the United List is saying that it's experts, that it's not politics, that they're apolitical, that they're not telling the truth. As far as experts are concerned, the references given by individual candidates are concerned, according to my opinion. The second question is how capable these experts are of performing a political function. The Prime Minister argued that it was a transitional period for him to draw people with professional and not political references to the government instead of three ministers from the Slovenian People's Party and instead of two ministers - the Minister and the Minister. However, at the same time, in the next week's job interview, it is highly likely that these candidates, if elected today, will continue to work in the government for the next term. This means that all five candidates will assume a political role - being a minister is a political function. Mrs Cerarova nodded to me that she did not hold it, so I will also quote exactly her statements, which she said on the Internal Policy Committee. Being a minister means taking responsibility, working in government. In view of the fact that the United List and Liberal Democracy remained in the government, at DeSUS, there were also some indications in the Coalition Treaty. That's right. And also in this regard, to carry out those tasks that have been signed in the coalition contract; as far as they succeed, it is another issue. I also listened to the opposition many times in the previous term, and I thought he was talking too much against some visible political February coming mainly from the left, and I told myself that this was impossible for Slovenian democracy. Today, I can tell you that it's possible. When we're talking about centralisation, when we're talking about decentralisation, when we're talking about monitoring the establishment of Forum 21, when you connect those people to each other by the list, when you look at who's behind them, and when you ask yourself who else is left and how you can react in this society. And when you rolled the film back and listened to some individuals, you could make sure that some statements about the power of individuals were true. And I will, too, these are my personal views, and I'll explain later. Of course, I would not like to talk about Mr Pavliha, Lahovnik and Mr Cvikl - I have said my opinion that as a person, as a fellow countryman, I also support him as Minister for European Affairs. I'm sorry that Mr. Squeakle is on the common list. Even when we elected Mr Potočnik in this National Assembly, Mr Potočnik was an expert and received quite a lot of support. But I would touch myself with a candidate for the Minister of Justice. I remember in 1999 when the Slovenian People's Party and LDS were in the government. When there was coordination at the government, who would take the place of Mrs Cerarov, it was the first or second time that it happened to the government, under the government of the then President Drnovska, to vote in the coalition. At that time, the LDS voted that the proposal was to go to the National Assembly for Mrs Cerarje. Today we have Mrs Cerarevo as a candidate for the Minister of Justice. As a politician, I will not interfere with her professional references. Because after so many years of operation in the justice system, I am sure that Mrs Cerarjevo knows the justice system. The question is another: will a politician be able to do anything in this system, abandon or make this system better? However, the fact is that we must not neglect that Mr Rupl's letter has also appeared if it is funny to anyone in this Chamber today that the Foreign Minister is writing to Members how we should react to the appointment of Minister Cerarov. And interestingly enough, I read this magnetogram of the last session of the "hearing" when I asked myself personally whether it was a political function - Mrs Cerarjevo, although she nodded a little, that she did not want to extend the mandate to the next government - replied as follows: "Mr Kangler. The ministerial function is political." So he's taking it. "I have not been a politician until now. And if I'm really gonna be a minister, I'm gonna close this door behind me." This means, clearly and loudly, that it recognises that it assumes a political function; it is likely that it has not decided on its own whether it will be on the quota of the United Kingdom or on the quota of the LDS. Probably not on the quota of opposition parties. In this response, he personally acknowledges what I think is right and fair, because being a minister is a political function. The second question is that she says the following words on the Committee's "hearing" regarding Mr Rupl's letter, when she is not yet Minister, is a candidate for Minister, and she is also in the role of Attorney-General: "And since Minister Rupel does not understand this, I must say that he is very vague and that he is in this stately position, it is very sad. That we have a man who doesn't understand." This is a great insult both to the government, both to the Prime Minister who holds the post of Foreign Minister and to Rupla - certainly to Comrade Potrce! And I wonder who and how someone will apologize to someone. In my personal opinion, respected colleagues and colleagues, this government and this mandate are not the last appointment of ministers we have today as candidates. There is a high probability that at one of the next meetings we will still elect a new minister or minister. Exactly. And I was also surprised that the Prime Minister had proposed Mrs Cerarje as Minister. Again, I reiterate that I was not surprised by her professional references, but I was surprised by some of the things that happened in this house that happened in September 2003 on the Committee on Internal Policy, the LDS Vice-President, Mr Max Lavrinc. And the revolt caused by Mrs Cerarjeva's work in the prosecution within the parliamentary group at the time of the 2002 report, concerning the work of prosecutors and lawyers, was in itself unexpected for someone to turn the board completely in three or six months. And I will dare quote from a magnetogram from this committee two sentences: Comrade Lavrinc, Max Lavrinc, chairman of the committee: "The First Lady of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office has to say that her legal beauty is only for kindergarten, especially if she says she is using the so-called 'ester approach' in organised crime, we need an additional explanation of what it is, at least to reassure taxpayers who do not understand what the police and the prosecution are doing." After six months of these words being spoken, the board turns to the board by a hundred percent. And on the same committee came the words: "As we have heard, there are people in the investigation or in the arrests, as someone wrote, because of the burning thieves, of course this is unpleasant for us." Those are Max Lavrintz's words. And on this committee, there was a number of LDS that were dissatisfied with the work of the prosecution and with the report. Today I am sure that everyone will vote for the list in such a composition. This is probably also due to the fact that the Prime Minister - for which I am sorry that he is not present today - is Vice-President of the LDS in the Chamber - who proposed to the National Assembly that we love [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] And vice president, thank you, colleague Anderlich. He proposed to the National Assembly that we vote on the whole list together. It would be interesting to vote on each individual. Mrs Cerarjev, with all due respect to you, I am convinced that my analyses, which say that you have been invited to the government to release the post of Attorney General and that this National Assembly and this coalition again appoints the Attorney General for five years, which is a political option in this country or one coalition - if I may say so. I think that's unacceptable. They should complete their mandate by the end of March next year, report to the National Assembly and thus end their career in the prosecution. Apparently, someone is playing a game to draw Cerarov into the government, release the prosecutor's seat, and thus provide for the next five-year period of the prosecutor, which will be a political option. And while we're at it, it's interesting that today he published in the Youth article, "Discovery of an anonymous witness", which once again struck as a dynamite on the very day that we love the Minister of Justice, Mrs Cerarjevo. I would like to point out something else about this article from Youth to Mrs Cerarjevo. In this article from Mladina - and these data are very well held and, in my personal opinion and belief, are also more credible - one name is also mentioned. The name of the prosecutor from Maribor, Elizabeth Györkös is mentioned. Why did I mention that name? I mentioned this name because, according to unverified information, this lady was one of the possible candidates who could come to the post of Mrs Cerarov after being elected to this post. However, some of the currents within certain political options that work here in Ljubljana use this opportunity today to meet in the National Assembly to discredit and prevent their individual people from taking such a position or another position. I can't say that the information I have is being held, but it's true that we should be talking about it. Certainly it is necessary to look for Mrs Cerarov's successor, it is a game, I must say frankly, it is an LDS game, to a greater extent an LDS and some who are behind, in what way to secure a renewed mandate for a man who will be able to "screw" certain things. It is probably true for some individual Members coming from the coalition to listen to such statements. But I will also now serve with some other statements, and I would be very happy if some Members, who come from elsewhere, even thought a little about some of the information. And I do not want to name anyone by name, because I would feel unfair and unfair to my fellow Members, regardless of the political options they come from. Unfortunately, however, it is very sad, the election result of 2000, in the very centre of Maribor University City, LDS received between 40 and 45%. It is said that almost everyone else who walks the city streets was elected by the LDS - each other. Today, however, we can see that none of these five candidates for the minister come from the university. It is important that the university, the rector and some others are given to the front of the Evening, that there are divisive events within the university, that this is placed on people, while some other things in the country are going their way through Maribor, through all those coming through Maribor - if I think about Prekmurce or Korošce. Some Members can laugh at me, you can replicate. It is unfair, unfair to us who come from that end of Slovenia, that we do not have the same opportunity and equal opportunities. If anyone thinks - Mrs Cerarjeva does this for you - and even if you think that this is normal among the nine constitutional judges - who comes from? The Constitutional Judges were elected to the National Assembly by at least 46 votes, as is known. Look at the list. If anyone looks at the composition of the Supreme Court, of the Supreme Judges - how many are coming. If anyone went to look at the judiciary - is it true that the university center, or the University of Maribor, or the city of Maribor, or all East Styria does not survive any candidate for a minister, or for a supreme judge, or even for a general prosecutor or a prosecutor? We are witnessing great centralisation, both politics, economies and public finances in one place. And it hurts the whole country, believe me. And it's hurting the whole country. And sooner or later, when we live in the European Union, we will pay our debts due to this over-centralisation. This is known, this can be confirmed by economists, at capital spills, to the largest centre, rather than the capital spilling out of the centre and reducing uneven regional development. And you can talk all you want and you can laugh at me, that's the truth. However, because some mock me from the very opposite political option, from the United List, when I mention these officials, that the north-eastern part of Slovenia or Styria or Prekmurje does not prevail. [[...]] Look, we have a president of the National Assembly coming from around Nova Gorica. If he goes on the list as a European Member, he will lose his mandate under the existing law of the National Assembly, and there will be no policy on such a high function as Mr Pahor from that area. His function will cease with the election to the European Parliament, with the election to the European Parliament, he will lose the presidency of the National Assembly, which is what we voted in this National Assembly. I will be very happy, Comrade Potč, because you will probably have this function in the coalition, if Comrade Pahor decides that he will go to Europe, and that you will choose an MP within the party - given that you are working hard for equal opportunities, and I do not mind and would also be happy if this Member could be from Maribor in this place. I'd even knock her down, even though I'm sometimes very unpopular to her. That's right. The Prime Minister also visited Maribor a while ago, visited the mayor of Maribor, Styjers we received a picture in the Evening, words, but probably remained. I was surprised that he did not ask himself what was going on with certain bankruptcys and bankruptcy managers in Maribor, about which colleague Jerovšek asked a question in the National Assembly a while ago, and most did not decide that a discussion would be held in this regard. Many times we have been affected or disadvantaged by the government's decision, and we have also protested by the majority of Members coming from this centre or neighborhood - if we remember Drava power plants and other projects. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, all those who can influence their parties in any way, in the state functions shared in the government, in the National Assembly and in some other segments where the government and policy have an impact, finally once again take into account the electoral results throughout Slovenia. In this way, believe me, you will help to reduce the uneven development of Slovenia, which has recently been a great pest to the country and there are major differences from day to day. Surely these candidates, who are likely to be elected ministers for a period of five, six months today, will also have to be aware of this in some of the proposals that will follow in government and ministry work. Once again, however, it is sad if you do some analysis and it is pointless, free and unnecessary to ridicule me when I point out these differences in my debates and those problems in the National Assembly several times and I want to make them public. If someone does not believe me when a person is faced with a social and economic crisis and with individuals and when he is pressured by daily phone calls, he is forced to speak in front of you in this way today in the National Assembly and to express his opinion and at the same time to convey the opinion of all those who have, at any time in the last part of my term, addressed me. And, my dears, if not already in this term, with this suit no, all those who will take an active part in the next elections, make sure that people get a chance from all parts of Slovenia. Not only to promise before the elections, be aware of the election results, do analyses, how and where someone has been elected and where they belong. I think people deserve it that I made this information public today in this National Assembly. With this, I wanted to appeal to all five ministers to be aware that they were not experts in the government, that they were politicians and that they were responsible when they accepted the Minister's post, that they would swear and sign a political office and answer with it. I would also like to conclude with this and thank you for at least some of you have listened to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u51	I listened very carefully to my colleague Jerovšek. Please, Comrade Jerovšek. The explanation, not the delay. Explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you very much. My colleague Kangler mentioned, if I understood him correctly, that the Prime Minister, Mr. Rop, had recently visited Maribor to replace the fact that he did not include any ministers from Maribor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Yes, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Please. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u56	I believe the bankruptcy proceedings of bankruptcy managers have also been touched. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Order!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u58	and the bankruptcy Senate. [[...]] This is the topic that broke out in Maribor, which the prosecution did not touch, and, as far as I was watching, I read all the articles precisely, and the Prime Minister did not touch it. Nor did she, nor did she, the swindling of workers and creditors of bankruptcy, the candidate for the justice ministry. Not even on the "hearing" today, as journalist Jež said, was talking about how everything from the prosecution was covered.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u60	A billion, a billion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Comrade Jerovšek, you are replicating the position of Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Tolars, a thousand million were bankruptcy money stolen and the candidate does not touch. [[...]] It does not indicate whether it will propose an amendment to the bankruptcy law, on bankruptcy. Look, it's obviously not a serious matter for a candidate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u64	such as this diplomatic academy [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u66	where there were 8 million potentials in the cave. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Comrade Jerovšek. You know, you're not acting in accordance with the rules of procedure right now because you're not explaining the wrong statement of Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Yes, he indicated that the minister had probably touched [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u69	This concludes this explanation because there is no controversy. This option is no longer given by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u70	But it's right that I touched this topic of bankruptcy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u71	When it's your turn, you'll have a chance to talk, and then, like everyone else, I won't interrupt you. Comrade Peace in the Hall! [[...]] Peace in the hall! Since it has been mentioned several times today in the debate on how we will decide to decide, let me say that we will make the decision, as proposed in the letter to the National Assembly by Prime Minister Master Tone Rop, by voting on a single list of candidates. This is the implementation of Article 232. If the list is not voted on, the following article says, we can vote again on the new list, or else in the third trial on each candidate on the list separately. That's all. This is the Prime Minister's decision to be respected and regulated. My friend Kacin has the floor. Or a colleague of Pohorec. Comrade Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Respectable candidate for minister and respected candidates. I will try to be a little shorter than the predecessors, because more or less has been said what will be the result of today's meeting or this agenda item, who will vote for who will oppose. We could go to the polls and get some rest, 'cause there's a lot of other assignments. Clearly, this is also an opportunity to say that everyone is confessing, as my friend Kangler is, and to point to those things that weigh us down, and this is an opportunity when there is always no such opportunity in any other marriage. We need to complement the government because what happened is happening, and that's what we're doing now. In doing so, we give ourselves a little soul, evaluate, and think out loud about how it might be different. I'm not going to go back into all the details because I said I'd be brief. It happened that the minister was Dr. Tea Petrin said she'd take another job. And today, some of you are talking about how we could wait until the end of the term and then go to The Hague in the fall. However, if we had yet another year ahead of us, I am sure that there would be some kind of interpretation. I want her to get out of this and go to a better job, and I'm sure her department will take over the younger, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, an expert, based on what I've been able to learn about him, hear and read. And I believe he's going to bring some fresh wind into this ministry, some new ideas and a little more fresh, and maybe he'll do something better than the former minister. I cannot judge him in any other way than on the basis of what can be read from his professional references, what he has done so far, and in the sense that he is simply the Minister President of Mag. Robbery entrusted this function. And as long as I am a member of the government coalition, which many of us have already resented here and there, we have accepted as a party and we respect this treaty and will do so until there is any injustice, as some others think it is, we will do so and we will do so in this spirit; we are. For the contract must be respected in good and bad times and implemented and assisted by that wagon which is ours, even to take us to that direction where we are going, even though we are experiencing anything, such and different assessments. I think that the coalition, as it has remained, unfortunately without the People's Party - we could continue together - to carry out this task by the end of the term of office. Together we have done some good, even with the opposition we have done a lot of projects, we have done in the European Union practically, in ten days or earlier, we have done in relation to NATO, we have done those constitutional changes that were necessary to make these steps - I do not know what is so terrible in all of this. And when we often hear that negative call, "under the ten-year leadership of Liberal Democracy this is happening and this is happening" - yes, but under the ten-year leadership of Liberal Democracy together with all the previous coalition partners Slovenia has come to the European Union. Would anyone hope to set this date in 1990, who hoped to set this date in 1991? Probably nobody. Today we are here and tomorrow we will have to live with this Union, and this is also the role of our new government, now the candidates for the ministries, to help guide their departments to where we belong, where we have always said we belong. And we got here much faster than anyone else would have hoped to do ten years ago; even outside Europe and so at home. That's what I'm sure, because I've been in this world for a while now, and I've experienced so many things that none of you can possibly know today, that it's easy when you talk about poverty when you're talking about what standard you're talking about. No one in this national council can think what poverty is, and I have experienced it. So you'll know! And I also find it hard to believe that today, when someone dies to live badly, that this is the case and that this is the price of our transitions in these ten years. Mag. Milan Cwickl, who we know as the candidate when he appeared as the President of the Court of Auditors, I believe that he would be a good president and I have given all my support, but it has happened, such is politics, but you have a great opportunity to show what you are capable of, doubtless, and that you will be able to replace Dr. Potočnik, who went where we wanted one of the Slovenian experts to come. It is my regret that we have lost three ministers of the People's Party, with whom we have done a great deal after all, and I myself have had good experience with them, and I have also invited them when the problems were in my area, my place, the area there, and the roads and agriculture. If I had to turn to Mr Bisak, he was always welcome, but that was their decision; first the parties, then them, and now what is different from replacing them. I believe again, and I don't even know how to judge Dr. Pogačnik, but Dr. Pavliho, as a member, as a non-expert for this area, whether they are appropriate or not. I trust the Prime Minister that he has chosen good candidates and that this resource will lead well and that, as a government, they will cooperate well and that the government will function as a whole. And this is important for Slovenia at this time. I feel the same for Mrs Zdenko Cerar, about whom the most dust is raised; where there are the most problems, there is also the most understandable in the environment of such and different opinions, views, criticism. If you're not dealing with the police, not the prosecutors, not the judiciary, you think everything's nice when you're standing there, if you ever -- at least I had to stand before an economic court -- and then you feel different. I know it's such a resource that it arouses so many such and different opinions. And you have to stop, too. I won't talk much anymore. I wish you a distinguished candidate and candidates, hold on, for the first time, this day of good, because this will be one more experience, for the second time, to be elected, I will vote for it myself, and for the third time that as a team in the new government, the restored government will cooperate well and that the government as a whole will endure and do what is necessary by the end of this term, because we have many tasks ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My friend Kacin now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, both ministers, one just experimented and survived. Madam candidate, madame candidates. When a person looks at an hour and says it's 7:02 p.m., every normal Slovenian and Sloveneman connects to a POP TV or a national TV station, we go to a circus. What we have to say to each other, we know very well because we have a number of votes. But Mrs. Orfei brought her circus here after many years. "Circus" means circle, and for those who sit in the front row, the story is the most dangerous. So, what can be said about this today, this moment here. My dilemma is to mention any name, last name, client I don't hope for, because that moment will be longer than an hour, because everyone who knows it will be "hanged" on the quoted names, and then we're good instead of midnight till one in the morning. So, what is it that we can talk about? It was said and I will not quote a speaker who wondered how capable these experts were of performing a political function. I think they're capable because they all went through "hearing" and they got support, and just as they laughed at our Commissioner candidate in the European Parliament, who said again that he was an expert, instead of saying that he was a first-class politician who would take over the role of the European Commission, so you should also, fifthly, clearly say that you have been since you were a magician. They said yes, politically contaminated. In short, now you're ours, you're not mine, the LDS, but you're ours, you're political, you're all contaminated. There's no turning back. Paulia, you will be able to write a good contribution on this subject, when, at which point you lost your virginity and everyone else with you. Those who are against you are pushing you away; they say you are not fit to be unable, that if you discuss each one of you, you would be supported by many. But my assessment is that it would take two more hours - and five of you would be elected. It's a hoax. But I am very grateful to all those who drive you away and who push you away, because if they push you away, they push you somewhere else, pushing you to us, to me, and of course I am not ashamed if any of you ever come directly to us. If you come when you come, each of you will be welcome, especially because after the end of this government's term you will have six months of ministerial experience and you will be, even if your function ends, a year's climb from the back and you will be addressed by'ministers' or 'Minister'. You need to get used to it, and it's an integral part of the package. But you will have just as much experience as all ministers and ministers of a government, who were in the middle of LDS not having a Prime Minister - not a day or a day less. But I'm telling you this because there's been so many rhetorical questions today, and it floats in between. [[I'm not going to quote anyone else so someone doesn't hang up on me again, and they're going to replicate me.]] : how is it possible that tomorrow they can take office, and now they'll be the minister and they'll be ministers. That's the question, that's the dilemma. I think it's relatively easy if you have good candidates. And once again, all five are good, very good. And with the attacks on you, those who attack you actually triggered a response and allowed you to properly present yourself and you are really good. But the problem is that you have some who have problems for weeks and months, how to name candidates - this is called the shadow government - and they cannot disclose and present it, but the Prime Minister has brought one lady and four gentlemen, who would be ministers from this day forward. I don't know how that's possible, but our Prime Minister's business is working. What I think is important right now is the following. My colleague said, "You're going to defend her, candidate." I'm not defending her because she can defend herself. It is unnecessary to say that this Zdenka Cerarjev - she is not Cerarjev, is Cerar, without "eva" - so she is her own; I went to ask her first what her maiden name is, because no one knows what it is like to write it correctly, is Prusnik, not Prusnikov, and now it is Cerar. In short, the lady has shown so far that she can lead what she has been given to lead, and I am happy that she will now lead our justices. I am not telling this now because of this TV show, which no one is watching; now the viewers are relatively small and we can have fun here and we can live this evening. I wrote down a few more thoughts that I would like to take advantage of because I speak, and I would like to say the following: I would not like to be biblical, because there is a quote that says, "Leave hope to those who enter." I am glad that you have come, because this allows us to hear some really lucid explanations and answers and that we who have been sitting here for four, three and a half years and one more, are recorders who have been here since the beginning of democracy - older generations would say, have been here since 'after freedom' since 1990 - allowing us to keep these few more six months, these few, six months ahead of us, somehow easier to survive and give us some energy. If I were to say in English, I'd say all the candidates are "very energy", full of energy, radiating positive energy. And just as it is sown here in the National Assembly, they will certainly radiate it in the ministries waiting for them. By agreeing to run for office, you have also, in my opinion, given the recognition of the National Assembly, because there are not many heroes and heroes who would be allowed to hang around here and slap and even humiliate here and there, in the way that this has unfortunately happened. But it seems to me that this is your candidacy, this "show" that we're playing here today, and we're going to drag it through half the night and midnight, even though Mrs. Zdenka didn't believe it before when I said that we have a long and tiring night to make it a contribution to the reputation of the National Assembly and our democracy. Although there will be many harsh words, you will endure this torture and will receive the seal of appropriateness, acceptability and all that you need to be exactly the right ministers or ministers. Somewhere I've heard that the left makes tears, you might say, also cause tears. Now, whether it's true or not, I don't know. In previous claims, irony communists, red times, I was the secretary of the Communist Union, among other things, and it's hard to say how much grief the left was causing at that time, certainly a lot of grief. Now, look where we are sitting, right across from the President of the National Assembly, we're somewhere in the middle, now, I don't know, Comrade Potrč, it's possible that the logo that says the left is causing tears, and then it says it's LDS. This, in fact, is a commercial for us and I don't know if these candidates have decided to go after this Master Robbery after seeing this commercial, or if it's happened before. But I have a feeling that, after seeing this ad, no one has given up and, contrary to that, the Prime Minister has decided not to try to replace any in the next three days. So, I don't know which one of you is crying at night or at night, but you don't see it on your faces, and that's why I think it's great for us, not just, maiming, but big enrichment. What I'd like to say at the conclusion is that some of them are direct. If the government had spent a lot of money on the labour intensive industries, the money was getting confused, and things still aren't right. It is necessary to ask what would happen if the government did not intervene and how many factory production facilities would be closed today and how many families would live on the compensation they would receive for their unemployment. Therefore, it seems to me that the youngest candidate is certainly still in need to face, both with the Minister of Finance and with the European Union, that he is charming and giving birth to another source so that we can throw him into our industry so that we can retain another job in the future. It was obvious that we had a bad deal if we didn't have a chance to work abroad for our workers. That there is no free movement of labour. But at the hearing of the candidate for a minister without a licence responsible for European affairs, I said that the Italian State had decided to throw money out the window for taxpayers and to issue a call for train drivers in Slovenian, which said that they must be qualified, that they must have experience, that they must know Italian and that they must speak another official language of the European Union, which becomes Slovenian with May 1st, and that they fulfil all the conditions for permanent employment in the Republic of Italy. So it seems to me that there are two things that need to be said in these observations. That we will probably be able to talk to our first neighbors and agree that those who want to go abroad can also work legally there. And a second time. That in the event of a labour force being too large from anywhere within the European Union, we can also protect the market of our labour force. I do not want to mention any new member of the European Union who is going there with us. But we have chosen the right to limit the labour market as well. Therefore, it is now clear that all these countries, so-called old Europe, members of the European Union, have decided not to allow the Slovenians and the Slovenes to work with others on their labour market, to be unfair. Colleagues and colleagues! Thanks to our negotiators, thanks to our government, we also have this mechanism and we act like one. So that we can keep our own, our jobs are meant. That's why this misdirection is really bollocks, it's unnecessary, and it's misleading our public. This needs to be made clear. Unfortunately, I say this at a time when everyone is looking at something else, but I think it's necessary to say it. Something about the sea. The sea is my weak spot. And this circle, this moment seems appropriate to me to repeat, I don't know how many times, because it's never happened in public. Within a few months, it will be 50 years after Yugoslavia has won Zone B. Since then, Slovenia also has its legal coastline, has its sea and has a direct exit to the open sea. Because zone B we shared with neighbouring Croatia. Croatia got most of it and we got smaller. We didn't share the waterfront. That's why I'm not gonna sign everything Dr. Pavlich said we have the right to leave. We've had an open sea exit for 50 years, and we've been exploiting it. It is true, however, that we do not yet have a signed, unfortunately not ratified and unfortunately not a implemented border agreement, which also includes a maritime border. But for this reason, it seems to me on this occasion, when the government is performing with five new ministers, where we also receive the Minister of Transport, it is clear and unequivocal to say so. And I'm not telling this so that the few people who might be watching it on television right now will hear it, but that one of those who will report it will be able to detect it and say it. Because, as you have just heard, the opposition agrees. There's been a few readings here that the minister and the ministers won't be able to do much in six months. If we did something big in six months, it would almost be a revolution, but we don't need a revolution, nobody wants one. Our people think like a young generation who says, "I've had enough, give me peace." We have now come to the European Union and NATO and let us take advantage of what we have. We do not need any preconceptions and revolutions, nor do we expect any revolutionary changes and shocks within six months. If anyone wants to, then he's a revolutionist. And I'd like to perform a little bit on the principle of "aufbix" and on and on and on and on and on. I think that when Slovenia joins the European Union and the EU, it simply cannot and cannot afford to do so. It was said that it was a great shame that the three ministers had left. I didn't feel like it was such a shame, because even though they were trying, they had a little bit of a trip, but they didn't know how to act. They didn't seem to be suffering. They weren't crying. So that logo that says it makes tears, they cried, no one, not mine from Kranj, no one cried. And the argument that it would be better to have state secretaries appointed as ministers is logical. It can only be said by someone who wishes that then, which A said, you wouldn't have to save B and B even C, because when you get a new minister, state secretaries have to offer a resignation. If a secretary of state became a minister, he may not say thank you very much to his colleagues so far. But since state secretaries choose ministers in their parties, before they start to advertise what causes tears, but they should not only think about the party and themselves, they should also think about their secretaries of state. Weeping now and wondering what's going to happen to the secretary of state right now, it's not going to work. The essence of democracy is that when a change comes, it is for everyone - for those who want it or do not want it. Most people just made up their minds. But in our case, the minority has decided to step out and now she's crying because someone else has to walk out on them. I do not impress you, I do not encourage, I do not block, you will still look at, you will talk to the secretaries and secretaries who are now expecting you to recommend cooperation with you; so believe them, these are well-intentioned offers. So I don't understand why there were so many questions about how and what. Well, and I won't be too long, because then they'll start watching again, because the news will be gone, I'd say the following. In 1990 we had the first democratic government, in 1945 we would say "freedom". In the first government, we had different old ministers, I was among the younger, the youngest was older than the youngest candidate here. And I want to remind you - not that I will remember who was the youngest at the time, I was 35 years old when I first went to the government - but in Belgrade they were making fun of themselves, talking about the "vodnik" and they packed up these things. One year later they saw that we had a good government, that we had a project to finish and that Demos did not survive, but the Slovenian state did. That is why this Slovenian country will also survive this reinforcement with four ministers and one minister and will have something to show not only itself but also the voters and voters after the end of its term of office. Therefore, it seems to me that this reinforcement is now the most convincing way for people to be able to continue trusting the government and the rest of the coalition. That is why I would like to conclude this performance: thank you for agreeing to strengthen the government, coalition and Slovenian states.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We've got 51 shows ahead of us. The first of these is my colleague, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In particular, I would like to stress that it is very important that when Slovenia enters the European Union, it enters with a stable government and enters with ministers who know both the acquis of the European Union and, of course, the acquis in the Republic of Slovenia. For it will be necessary to exercise interests, state interests in a much wider area than this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] And it's still until May 1st. [[...]] However, until this point, a number of things need to be done, which will, of course, allow us to exercise the interests of Slovenia successfully in the European Union, and despite the fact that the government will also have significantly greater powers with entry than ever in history, because it will also be able to draw European legislation - until yesterday, of course, we have no opportunity - will be important to have a very clear starting point, how and what to represent. This is an area which, of course, is being adopted in our Parliament at this moment, and actually concerns all the areas represented by candidates who will take over, as it all appears, these most responsible functions already today. I am thinking about a strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia that truly covers all the areas of which the most talks are at today's meeting when we hold the meeting until the moment of appointment of the new ministers. I would like to draw my own attention to some of the issues raised in the Spatial Development Strategy. This is a long-term document, which is also linked to some documents that will, of course, need to be adopted by 1 May when we join the European Union. The way spatial development is supposed to take place in Slovenia is presented somehow in four sets. We can talk about spontaneous spatial development, intensive spatial development, active protection of spatial values and, of course, sustainable spatial development. I am in favour of naturally sustainable spatial development, and the government has also identified itself for this because it enables the economically efficient and environmentally acceptable development of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I note in this document that there are some things that are not exactly in support of this sustainable spatial development, because if this happens, Slovenia will somehow be divided into approximately 38% of the area in a way that is actually an active protection of spatial values, which is an extremely large area. And in my opinion, of course, even too extensive, and it can come to getting Slovenia two speeds, which is not good. Therefore, it seems to me that the government will have to draw up some solutions by 1 May, but unfortunately they will not be supported by all the documents that we should have now, and we have also warned of this in the spatial development strategy. For at this moment, however, we are faced with the fact that we do not have a manufactured transport policy, that we do not have a national programme to increase the capacity of state roads, that we do not have a largely implemented national programme for the development of rail infrastructure, and that we do not, finally, have a national programme for the development of civil aviation. All of this has also been pointed out by the candidate for the Minister of Transport, and of course he will endeavour to ensure that all these areas are implemented as soon as possible, which is very important and I think is also crucial for the successful adoption of this strategic spatial document. However, what I would like to point out in this first period, when ministers will perform and meet in the period from 1 May to 1 May, is the fact that, of course, the areas we will also have to send to Europe, which will be protected in accordance with the Natura 2000 guidelines. This is, of course, as I have already mentioned, an extremely difficult area, which will cover 38% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which will certainly concern both the agricultural programme and the development of the economy, transport, and not least the adoption of European rules. I would, of course, like everyone in their field to look in detail at this document, which will be dealt with by the government by 1 May, but it is a government regulation. Article 1 of this Regulation already speaks of the European Union's interest being introduced in this area. It is therefore a matter of directly introducing the interest of the European Union and it is important that this interest is also largely acceptable to Slovenia. In this really short period, which you will have until 1 May, I would like to appeal that everyone in their field really look at this document from the point of view that it is covering in their own area. I believe that then the product, of course, which will be shaped in the form of a regulation and also in cartographic material, will be much more acceptable than it is today, since I believe that, however, the European Union's excessive competence over our space is not good to give, especially if we are talking about economic development and, of course, the development of infrastructure. In particular, in the area of agriculture, I would like to point out here the fact that such forestry will be extremely exposed, in particular the part which has concessions granted in state forests and, consequently, will also be reflected in the wood processing industry, which is one of the most demanding areas of how to maintain this processing industry at the level in order to be competitive primarily in the European market. Any measure that can, of course, lead to the fact that the costs of operating either forestry and, as a result, also the timber processing industries reflect, due to the measures we will take, of course, we will have so much trouble in successfully overcoming the problems of the economy represented by the wood processing industry and, as a result, also the number of employees in individual areas that are traditionally linked to timber. So, you have a very demanding document before you, and I hope that this document will be really more acceptable than this moment when we are all still trying to negotiate for simpler solutions and, of course, the possibility of more rapid development action in a given area. I would just like to point out that in these 38% of the area, it will be necessary for each measure to produce specific environmental impact assessments, which will certainly last much longer than in those parts of Slovenia that will not be subject to these measures and, as a result, there is also, of course, the time constraints and the cost component involved. With regard to some concrete solutions, which are likely to be already, probably not, but should indeed be carried out, but it appears that they will not be realized, but they relate to public line passenger transport, namely, to Slovenia's entry into the European Union we should also have concessions for public line passenger transport, and, of course, after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, this will be much more difficult and our carriers will probably be subject to much more difficult conditions for obtaining these concessions. Of course, an area that is clearly not covered by this moment will be one of those with which the Minister of Transport will meet immediately after May 1st, and it is likely that there will be very serious pressure on how to solve this problem. It will probably not be in his power to take full responsibility for this, although it will have to do so after its function, but it is possible only to comfort ourselves that we have also been working in the Infrastructure Committee, so also in Parliament, to speed up these procedures and that these problems will probably occur, because these procedures are not completed by 1 May. What I would point to as the next very important document is the implementation of a small-border agreement concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. This allows for the formation of so-called tourist zones, which extend both to the Slovenian part and to the Croatian part of the territory within the area defined by the small-border agreement. The government has already adopted this direction to form these tourist zones, so the material has been prepared in time and some very specific matters will have to be dealt with by 1 May. It is specifically intended to place or place the designations of this area in space, because only in this way will all the conditions required by the European Union be met, so that we can introduce these tourist zones after 1 May and thus enable the actual free movement of people and goods at the border, which will, of course, be subject to the Schengen regime, and finally the development of these sites will be much easier to achieve this project in full content. Here I would appeal to the candidate for Minister of Transport to pay attention to the cooperation of the Slovenian Directorate of Roads, which, while very actively participating in this project, but indeed in this short period, which is until 1 May, will carry out all the procedures necessary for these designations to be placed in space and to meet these conditions. With this awareness that we are making very responsible decisions both in Parliament and in the government, and this will be particularly important with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I would like all the new ministers, the current candidates, to be truly successful in carrying out their functions and thus to prove that Slovenia is one of those countries that will be able to exercise its interests within the European Union and at the same time contribute greatly to the successful development of the European Union as a whole and thus contribute greatly to the stability of Europe and the world. With these wishes, a respected candidate and candidates, I would also like to escort you to the moment you are appointed and will assume these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague, Dr. Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What a lovely greeting to all the candidates you've endured this debate so far! I regret that there is no Prime Minister because my first words are intended primarily for him, as a comment on his decision. I truly regret that he has decided to propose to the National Assembly that we vote on the list, not on each candidate individually. It would be normal and I think it would also be fair for everyone to have such an attitude and that possibility today. When it comes to everything, it is very difficult to define everything, because obviously not all candidates, at least in our opinion and in my personal opinion, are worthy of similar or similar assessments. But the fact is, we're going to have to make a decision on the basis of a list, and that seems basically unfair to me. So the first point would be this. Secondly, I would just like to comment that when I first heard that Mr President of the Prime Minister might propose Mrs Zdenko Cerar as a candidate for Minister, I was invited to a statement stating that I regret and that it would seem very difficult to find someone, someone who would be more unfit for such a responsibility in this situation than today Slovenia actually is. When I listened to the presentation of my colleagues and colleagues today, as well as the answers to certain questions that Mrs Cerar has raised here, I became even more convinced in my belief that her candidacy was inappropriate. Why? In particular, because I consider that one of the characteristics of our time in our country is the dominant cynicism of the average citizen and citizen to the essential institutions of the country, especially to the judiciary. And that one of the key tasks for which the Prime Minister should take the lead is to restore the credibility and trust of people in the institutions and the functioning of these institutions. If we fail to create such an atmosphere together, we are not doing well for our future together. And of course, I have my views on the functioning of Mrs Cerar so far, and the others have different. However, regardless of what the views of the individual Member or Members of Parliament are as yet, I think we can agree on one thing that its functioning is in fact highly controversial. And it is this very controversy of its operation that I find inappropriate and inappropriate so far, which I think is essential for our common good, and this is to restore people's confidence in the functioning of a key institution, such as the judiciary. I do not believe that a person who causes such disputes can effectively do so. So, no matter how we decide, I just think that she will have to devote a lot of her time, in this one or another short period of time, to explaining how it was, why she was, what she did, what she didn't do, instead of devoting herself to what we still need, and that is to give back to the judiciary the credibility and trust of all. A number of colleagues have also settled in the way they report on the work of working bodies. I must agree that several times the report of representatives or the president of the working body sounds more like propaganda than the actual report on the debate itself. And as far as this debate is concerned, today it is also accompanied by people watching this in their homes, this debate, I think, in its essence, is unfair. I have two comments, as far as the candidate mags are concerned. Squeezing. Unfortunately, I was unable to participate in the hearing when the European Affairs Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs debated it because there was also a debate on the Committee on the Economy at the same time. But I only have one comment I'd like to make, and I think it's an important question to the two that I have about the possibility of its operation. We are now going to a new period with regard to the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards the European Union. We will no longer focus on negotiations, but we are going to some normality, which requires a very special skill from the Minister for European Affairs in order to coordinate the work of all his colleagues, who are almost all involved in certain issues, in the day-to-day functioning of our country in a new relationship with the European Union. And this coordination also requires great respect and trust from others. Of course, the fact that Mr. Mag. Squeakl has failed to run for Court of Auditors and he does not wish to support the majority, but he doubts me whether he will have such support in this new responsibility, as proposed by Mr Prime Minister. Then a few comments about Dr. Lakhovnik. Of course, when we heard the report, the report on the debates in the Committee on the Economy, we heard only praises, which is to be expected, so the fellow who reported is, of course, a representative of the great coalition, but only if not the other, but for the magnetogram I would like to say that the key questions that I personally asked him, to which I did not have the answer - of course, this also shows some of his skills, how he can avoid some of the squeamish points - but, some answers, if they were not clear, were a source, I will say a certain disappointment, and others I am still waiting and actions will show, in fact, how he thinks and imagines these things. The first question that I find very fitting for someone who comes from the academic circle and teaches exactly our future professionals about acquisitions, I asked him what his position is about being one of the characteristics of our economy, that we have very much cross ownership, that is to say, one company has shares in another, and the other one also, that is one particular feature that happened to us in Slovenia in this unpredictable transition process, which is not just some Slovenian feature, we have a lot of it, and also Mr Doctor agreed that it is so. However, on the question of how he interprets it, as far as the consequences of such ownership are concerned, in particular in the light of certain analyses that have been made in experiences elsewhere in the world, it is the so-called Asian tigers, where they also had such a thing and then eventually found that it was negative for their development. As to what his opinion on this characteristic of our ownership structure is, we have heard a good explanation that it really happened that way, that it actually happened because they wanted to create some stability. Of course, the word stability means a lot, and also that stability is for owners, not some stability for our economy as a whole. But, on the question whether he is willing to propose a change in acquisitions also for the takeover law, in order to ensure that the rights of small shareholders who suffer very much in such situations are guaranteed, and in order to limit the networking that he has called or the networking, I have not received an answer. Other questions are related to his presentation, in which he mentioned that the transformation of the ownership of social property, namely the so-called restructuring of our economy, had a social component and this social component, at least so I understood and I think that they also agreed that I understood correctly that this social component should be that we always had, or at least talked or used, as an excuse to preserve jobs. Of course, a change in ownership also had a different social component. This was the social component that was included in the plan itself, which was adopted on the basis of a political consensus in this national assembly in the mid-1990s, and that is that we have all become small shareholders of at least part of this social property. What has happened to this is well known; many are still waiting and will wait a long time for this to happen for it or for it, parallel to that, it is said, a fraud of small shareholders, and a great concentration of capital. So, there's a characteristic and a difference between a plan and a reality. And I asked the candidate's opinion on this, but not to get an answer, an abstract professor's debate that was not there, but to ask him if there was anything else that could be done to achieve the first plan, and if there was anything that could be done, whether he was ready to propose as a minister. There was no answer to that. Then there's another thing that seems very important to me. Of course, as a candidate of the Commissioner, he had to praise the government's latest moves. And so he praised, praised the entrepreneurship law, and praised the law in preparation, namely the law on foreign investment. My question was, Doctor, do we need this law at all? Whether you are assessing in your opinion, in your vision, whether this law was necessary and if it was needed, why we received it after ten years of the reign of one and the same political options and not before. Either that means some difference in approach, or it's some kind of conversion in the last days of life, as they say, conversion on the deathbed, but I don't want to sound so dramatic. Of course, the question of this new law that is to come is also about foreign investment. The fact is that there is virtually no foreign investment in Slovenia. And of course, he had to agree, because otherwise he can't agree, because these are statistics. However, this is not due to some lack of legislation, but it is my assessment of the consequences of the planned work of this government, which did not want this to happen. I can tell you again the story of at least one case that I have experienced and witnessed to her, how a foreign investor was actually rejected by this government, because they did not want to give him the right information in time to make their own financial plan, and he did not present himself, but he did not decide to come to Slovenia. And these are the things that this government should settle, but obviously - and this is not written in any law, this is a problem of political will. Well, I also did not get a sufficient answer on this matter whether this marriage is necessary or not. Otherwise, I'd end up with just one more thought. I expected that when a young professional and young professor arrived, there would only be a new wind or at least a whisper. But I have a feeling we're going to hear the same things because I predict he'll be disappointed in many ways. In his presentation, for example, he committed himself to taking part in the foreign investment law, including some provisions where we will give a preference or favour investment in certain regions in Slovenia. This seems very interesting to me because it is the application of some of the fiscal policies and the instruments the government has to direct certain activities towards objectives that are more important than others. However, I had to warn him that it was the same government and the same majority on the opposition's proposal that the corporate income tax law would have a possibility of some difference just to direct economic activity in line with such always, I don't know, the preconceived concept of coherent regional development - there was no obedience. But of course I understand that they may have thought that the opposition's proposal may have been too harsh or too much, but they did not have their own and our warnings that the great coalition and the government are consciously giving up fiscal policy, that is the true impact of tax policy on certain activities, there was no reflection and I think this will happen here with your efforts to channel foreign investments elsewhere. In this sense, I regret to say, but I suppose you will be disappointed, unfortunately you are entering one team and will be subject to the will of a coalition that has not had any obedience to it so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Let's move forward in order. Comrade Petan now has the floor, with his colleague Rokavec, if that's what he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, candidates, colleagues and colleagues! Earlier, the President had warned us that we were still close to 50, so I will not deal with all the candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u81	You're the 50th.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Good. I won't deal with everyone, because then it would be too long. Maybe I'd start with a candidate, but that doesn't mean I have anything against women or give them too much leverage. The fact is, I will try to assess her candidacy on the basis of the past work, not on the basis of possible qualifications or education or anything like that, but solely on the basis of the management of the city which she has been giving him. This also seems to me to be only realistic, because a good job so far is a guarantee or some probability, perhaps a greater probability that a new job will also be done well, at least the probability is greater. Otherwise, it may be some blindly trusted basis for the presentation and it is more blindly if the work so far has been done poorly, and more confidence is that if the work so far has been done well at least on the basis of the judgment, I will also tell the public. Promises can be big and only work that can show ability or availability. It's not all in your ability, even in the will to solve some work, so I'm going to evaluate it on the basis of my past work. This mortgage of the past is not the most glamorous, for the results are not brilliant, and the public also sees it this way. I would focus only on the possible latest developments that we have somehow more in mind. A full closet full of unsolved or unworked, forgotten or established or outdated files in the closet of a prosecutor is probably not a good traveller. It doesn't show good work in this system, and as we have heard, there were writings in this closet, I'll say, heavy matters, economic offenses, crime and so on, SIB, Zbilski Gaj, Orion, Pay Consulting, whatever. However, we have not heard that there would be anything between the 160 and 164 writings of the writings that we place among the fiery thieves. We didn't hear them make them, but they're the only ones heavy. This means that this system has somehow avoided major problems of economic crime. The fact is, and I would like to mention in particular that for one year's lost mail, I'll call it mail, then I'll tell you why, about the SIB bank, and that only after one year's photocopy of the mail book is helping to find the thing, to find this material or this mail find or the thing moves, it's a little weird. And what bothers me is that then we hear that there was a magnetogram of some kind at a town council meeting. I don't think it's a fight because we don't argue here either, but we exchange our opinions, but we can have our own opinions, and we don't agree with everyone. That's just how it is. Because then we could ask, yes, what kind of materials would someone have to put on this organ to be real? Or to make this case resolved, that's not possible. Because it is in this body that those who are, I will say, the gravest who are paid for this, who are responsible for this, who have the appropriate education, have the appropriate qualifications and they can deal with it. I imagine that the indication that somewhere is wrong is a signal that a little research is needed, not to run ten people there, but to first ask if there is anything on it or not, and then it can get worse. And that is why I am particularly disturbed by the fact that, in the case of the Foreign Minister, I am calling it political treatment of the Foreign Minister in the crowd, but because it is a serious case, the prosecutors are dealing with it. Nor do I think that if it comes from such a competent authority suspected or indictive, or I do not know, mail, if I can say again, as I used to say, that in some area something is going on, a whole bunch of people are going to start looking at that case. It is probably necessary to determine first if it is justified. And in the case of the Foreign Minister, it turns out it's nothing serious. That's right. And if it worked on this case at the beginning too many people, then it's a waste of energy. And the next thing I know, it's also disturbing that some things have always come back to life when they've been chewed up a hundred times. Especially when it comes to political issues, I will mention Depala you, if possible it was something before the elections. So that's what throws the bad light. The next thing that bothered me was a statement by a candidate at a meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. This sentence has already been read today, and I will read it again: "And since Minister Rupel does not understand it, I must say it is very ill-considered and it is very sad that we have a man in this state's position who does not understand it." And what's the problem? I see it in the next one. The Foreign Minister who wrote this letter - I do not say that everything is okay with this letter, not at all, but I want to say that, in this letter, which I myself have read several times, there is only a function, a candidate for office, or a candidate, and the work that has been assessed has been done. The contents of the letter refer to the Attorney General or to a candidate, never named. However, the candidate responded to criticism or consideration of her work so far at a personal level: "Minister Rupel, it bothers me very much because the cause was different, it was not personal, but it was a function." And I would like to say that the criticism of the work of a function is not the same as personal discreditation, and the lack of visibility of a person is personal discredit, on a personal level. This seems extremely problematic, maybe not for anyone, but it's an extremely delicate thing for me, and that's not good. But if I link this to another thing, but it's good for me, maybe it's a little excessive expression -- fear, but I have some unpleasant feelings. I'm going to mention the case of journalist Rance. Rejected or banned, I don't know, I'm not going to insist on that strict word, the prosecution was on the part of the prosecutor to handle this case. For those who illegally eavesdropped on the press or obtained phone records, nothing. It's some kind of signal. It is not only that this case has been dismissed by the prosecution, but it is a signal that we can understand from this case. And I'm going to ask myself, does this mean that there is an open-ended hunt for journalists who are critical to the government or who are investigating unpleasant issues for the government? That's how we can explain it. I'm not gonna say it's the same now, but we can explain it that way. This explanation is possible, especially since the same journalist has already received an indemnity action twice in the proceedings. I agree with this, too, that it is not exactly the same case, but it cannot be so different and certainly something is wrong here, obviously something is wrong, very wrong, except for the prosecution, for which there was no indication of the rightfulness of the complaint or, for example, the continuation of the procedure. Several times we refer to statistics, which are of course a good invention, I will say, and also help to determine the situation, but this is not sufficient proof; statistics are often misleading. And I'm going to return the example that I already mentioned. Where statistics deal with full cabinets of unsolved cases where they deal with them, whether they are backlogs or unsolved cases or are somewhere, I don't know, the statistics obviously don't deal with them, they don't treat them, and we can also say that they belong less if we haven't even recorded them if we have them in the closet for a while. I was also very disturbed, I will say, by the constant response that no one can order the prosecutor and that he is of course independent. I know he has to be independent when making decisions, if it were different, then it would be really wrong, but it's something else. This is a system and in every system there are rules and someone who is at the top of this pyramid or somewhere lower must coordinate, because otherwise it is no longer a system, there is no organization of work, but there is a bunch of individuals who are autonomous and each one works as he pleases. That's probably not how it works. I imagine that at a certain time, I don't know, every week, a group of people are meeting for 14 days or a month to examine what the situation is, to set up a new job and probably even to distribute new cases. Otherwise, I can't imagine any system working at all. Because if anyone can do what they want, just take the case, well, not literally take me, just for the sake of painting, I'll say, everyone will only take the chicken thief, and no one will have the tough cases, that's just, I said, because of the scenicity of the case. The desire for coordination, coordination and coordination must certainly be the only way that the system can function at the top of the pyramid. But then, of course, individuals working on this system are independent of decisions, and that is clear, too, they would not lose the word here, so that no one would tell me that I am saying that we must have any influence. No professional decisions, but the organisation of work is likely to be certain. The fact is, even because of this proposal by the Prime Minister, I cannot support it. In particular, I will also return to statistics, but slightly differently, statistics that are essentially defined by the public. In fact, two houses, RTV and a newspaper house, conducted surveys with a relatively large number, a large sample, or a candidate suitable for this city. They both say the same thing, 59% not or 69% not, 32% or 30% yes. It is said that the public has the right to judge, the public has the right to judge work. The public is probably not interested in the content, but the final result and the public have given their opinion on this final result of the work of this system. So much possible about this segment about the candidate and her work so far. Now, just a few words about the candidate for Minister of Transport. I'm not going to judge him after his last job. Maybe I'll put the matter a little differently. Somehow "pasha" could have been different, but because I've set up a case, you'll understand. I'm going to release the maritime code, and there was something said there today, and I'm going to go to another thing, and maybe it was worse. With us tourism is a very important and promising sector, this is likely to be found by the minister, who will cover another area, probably the economy. And in doing so, probably good road connections are particularly important for those places, those tourist destinations that are not in the main directions, in the main corridors and they drive connecting roads and these connecting roads are probably, I'll say, existential importance for these tourist destinations. I'll just point out here for a brief discussion the Rogle case, which is about 20 kilometers from this main road connection. And in dealing with the relevant documents, including the budget, I proposed about four years ago that connecting roads with tourist destinations in Slovenia should have a priority, not exclusively, of course, it can't be, but some priority in building and repairing roads, because we have to have some criteria, that's a fact, because we can't all at once build them all. Of course, it did not go through, but it did, and we must admit it, but not as we would expect, so I might ask the Transport Minister's candidate whether he thinks tourist destinations should have a certain priority, a certain priority in rebuilding, in rebuilding, in building connecting roads. And if I go back to Rogle for example, where there are about 5,000 tourists a day in the main season, then you know what road infrastructure has to be like so many people can come up to 1500 meters high. There could be other tourist destinations, Terme or something, I'm just saying that. Is it also possible that today's candidate thinks that this is local nature and that this is not of particular importance for the national economy and that it is not necessary for these tourist destinations to be given any special treatment, a particular weight in view of economic needs and the effects that these places certainly have on the national economy in financial terms? This is supposed to be a question for the minister's transport candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. French Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Mr Prime Minister, candidates and candidates for ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Work on joining the European Union has been done and, therefore, an unpopular factor must be removed from the distribution of prizes and credits. That is why a scenario that is already well known is needed. In 1992, when Demos then carried out the basic, essential concept of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the work was done and the government had to be replaced. It's very similar in this case. In fact, despite the fact that from the very beginning I was not thrilled with the participation of the People's Party in this coalition, because I knew it would be used sooner or later. Used for specific purposes. In the European Union, this was the only party that had a connection with the really strongest political group, the European People's Party, and which could be in the most problematic area for coalition, which would be problematic if it were not for the People's Party, so to speak, rural development and agriculture. We know that this area in the European budget itself covers more than 40%. That's why the People's Party was needed to do this job. Nevertheless, I believe that she and the former party president, with Minister Booth, have made him extremely successful. Extremely successful because if it were not for our negotiator, Slovenia would already be a net payer in the European cash register. It is no wonder, therefore, that in the proposal for a coherent regional development law, we have seen this year the tendency of the regional development agency to complement itself with the area of rural development, although we now have an accredited agency for agricultural markets and rural development. So since this government has not been successful, other ministers of this government have to re-analyse these funds if the Slovenian People's Party is to be in the government after 1 May. Nevertheless, I am proud of the work done by Minister Booth and the Slovenian People's Party. I believe that it has done a great deal for Slovenia, despite the fact that I myself have had many times in this area, and I still have many comments today that some details may have been given a substantial lack of attention, which would actually improve the position. And it is probably necessary to look for the basic purpose of why we are dealing today with the appointment of five ministers, not two ministers. Regardless of what has already been said, yes, the People's Party has gravely violated the Coalition Treaty because it has supported the interpretation of the Interpellation against Minister Bohinc. Yes, we have so clearly predicted, because we have previously protested in the coalition against such a way of resolving the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We had our view, our vision, we publicly called on Dr Bohinc's Minister of the Interior not to issue a decision, a supplementary decision, and not to follow a political dictatorship that was the political dictatorship of the majority in the coalition. Voters made it clear at the referendum on Sunday (April 4th) that such an idea to solve this problem, which, of course, overshadowed Slovenian politics in the last half of the year, was not appropriate. Science was not enough, not the Prime Minister, not for the majority of the then ruling coalition. We go on with our arrogance, regardless of whether the people have decided otherwise. Of course, it is necessary to show it to the People's Party for violating the coalition treaty, and to say so publicly. The people gave our position exactly. Otherwise, in the case of the Vatican Agreement, which is also an integral part of the Coalition Treaty, the United List in the Government, in the procedure, even contested this previous agreement in 2001 in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has clearly ruled that the Vatican Agreement is expressly, explicitly, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution. The United List votes against one major former coalition programming projects [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Mr. Rokavec, I really don't want to be rude, but this is the point of the day. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u86	It's a matter of today's debate, and I want to light it up. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Mr. Rokavec [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Because I want to light up the situation. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u89	No, you have no right to shed light on the situation Mr Rokavec, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have the right and duty of the Member and Members to talk about the item on the agenda. [[...]] This is the definition of candidates for ministers proposed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u90	It's a forerunner. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u91	Mag. Anton Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u92	for my ex post explanation [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u93	No predecessor has been announced and I am warning you, and I very much ask you to identify yourself as candidates and candidates. [[...]] That's all we can do here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u94	Madam President, I understand that it is difficult to actually listen to this truth that has been happening. However, I make it clear that in this coalition, when someone wanted and had power in the former coalition, if he had violated the coalition treaty, he could have violated it and nothing happened to him. In this particular case, however, this eminent political issue, which has in fact been a political issue that has burdened Slovenia's policy over the past six months, in which the two main parties, the main two government parties, have found that they have made the biggest mistake and that, of course, there has been a need to find the very reason why the public party is excluded from the coalition. So much for that. The main purpose was to collect the fruits obtained by the Slovenian People's Party at the time of entry into the European Union. However, the second objective is likely to be that of the proposal of the 'disputed' candidate in calling for a justice minister and in the proposal for the President of the anti-corruption commission, which will be on the agenda of this meeting today. In the last year and a half, Slovenian politics has been affected by very large affairs, SIB affairs, Orion affairs, Zbilski Gaj and could still be listed. Thus, the affairs where all the arrogance of the government has been revealed and where it was necessary to replace the staff, both in the Department of Justice and in the Department of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and also now the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption to place reliable people with new political, clear definitions of the left. Why? We know that very different approaches have been taken by the prosecution. Madam candidate, how can it be that, in the case of the City Municipality of Koper, when it comes to a few million, the way of the investigation is, of course, done by the main suspect at the time of the initiation of the investigation without any public pump, of course, by explaining that this was absolutely necessary because it could have affected the course of the investigation. In the case of the SIB, in the case of Orion, where many of our citizens and citizens have been cheated by fraud, another story is narrated. Either the appeal is placed under the counter or all the necessary public discussions are already carried out, all the necessary reasons, of course, for all the necessary documents to be hidden, until an investigation is carried out, say, in the case of Orion. This is my fear, Madam Candidate, that your way of working from the prosecution is now being transferred to the judiciary, and that also with the appointed new state prosecutor, as well as with the proposal to lead a anti-corruption commission in this country, a way of customerism, dangerous clientelism, will be established, where only certain groups will be found to commit crimes. On the other hand, there will be reasons why the procedure is delayed or made public so that any suspects will withdraw all the necessary documentation in due time and will be placed in safety. These are the dangerous stories in which Slovenia is at the moment. Today, it is most distasteful that the Prime Minister, despite all these warnings, insists that the proposal of all candidates and candidates be voted on in a package. This is what the Prime Minister is doing for all the other candidates, and it is also reducing the level of democracy because he does not give Members and Members the opportunity to decide on each individual candidate. This is, of course, possible under the rules of procedure, but I would expect a response from both the public and the opposition, as well as different opinions within the most powerful party, so that the Prime Minister will only listen this time. But of course not. That's dangerous. It's dangerous to try to get some weed between the good grains in the wheat. This is bad for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Thank you very much. My colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Respectable candidate and respected candidate! On the Committee on Agriculture, none of the members questioned that Dr Milan Pogačnik would have had the necessary professional references to take over the tasks of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In view of his rich professional and research work so far, it is not possible to express such doubts. It is true, however, that there are quite a few members of the committee who oppose veterinarians. And Dr. Pogačnik represents the very top of the veterinary profession. According to the agronomists and livestock breeders, it's also possible that it's time for some veterinarian. On the other hand, landing on the candidacy at this time is also a courageous decision. It can only be accepted by someone who is very sovereign in his field, who has already worked closely and co-formed a taresor. The Ministry of Agriculture is one of the largest since it has nearly 65 and a half billion tolars in 2004. In addition, this area will be subject to the greatest changes with Slovenia entering the European Union on 1 May. These must take place this year. In fact, Slovenian policy was successful in the pre-accession period, given that our agriculture is characterised by adverse natural and structural conditions. We have compensated for the loss of income by direct payments, but unfortunately we have paid less attention to the restructuring and development of agriculture and rural development. The final outcome of the negotiations for the European Union is quite beneficial both in the area of direct payments, in the area of quotas and reference quantities and in the area of rural development funds. Direct payments will also have to follow the domestic budget, but we have already taken this decision. Dr. Pogačnik, as he himself said, will strive primarily to ensure that the beneficial outcome of the negotiations is not compromised by poorly used programs and funds. If the funds remain in the Brussels cash register, we will have major problems after 2007. Dr Pogačnik is aware of the current situation of our agriculture, where negative economic developments are also expected in certain areas, and sometimes marked improvements. The biggest problems are expected in those sectors that have so far been most protected and isolated from market pressures. He also reminded us of the important and urgent activity that must be agreed in Slovenia by August 2004. This is to draw up views on direct payments policy in line with the reform of the common agricultural policy. The adoption of the new concept of this policy must, according to it, become a common task for the country, as this is a substantially changed role for agriculture in the coming period. He announced that its first priority would be the smooth and effective implementation of the 2004 budget, the preparation of appropriate measures to mitigate the consequences in the dairy sector and in part also in the meat production industry, the acquisition not only of temporary accreditation but of a permanent agency for agricultural markets. He also wants to work with NGOs, chambers and trade unions. I am sure that Dr. Pogačnik will not, at this time, undertake too many fatal reforms that would shake the system at its foundations, even though this would be necessary and good in some areas. With all the shocks we'll experience on May 1st, he'll probably continue where he has good professional backgrounds. I am pleased that it advocates multi-purpose agriculture, the preservation of cultural landscapes and the protection of areas with more difficult conditions, while stressing the importance of cross-cutting cooperation. Let me also repeat what I am already on the Agriculture Committee. With the appointment of Dr. Pogačnik, I expect us to have a minister in addition to the minister for those involved in this activity, including the minister for all of us two million people in Slovenia, a minister who must ensure balance of interests and expectations. In the field of environmental protection, food safety and animal protection, Dr Pogačnik is the right choice and I will be happy to support him. When I listen to the opposition's debate today, the state of spirit in this House is reflected in its own way. The joy with which my fellow Members of Parliament are going after the only female candidate on this team shows two things: either a lack of courage or a well-known attitude towards women in politics, which is why we rarely decide on this path. It is quite amazing to know, even for us women, that no but really no reasoned explanation means anything, as if we do not speak Slovenian, as if we do not speak the same language. That's why I don't think there's any point in explaining to our recent coalition partner SLS what the difference is between leaving and throwing someone out. Finally, let me say that I will gladly support the well-respected candidate and candidates for ministers, and I wish them a successful and good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. Now my colleague has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear lady candidate for Minister of Justice, distinguished gentlemen of the candidates! Allow me first to announce my full support to the candidate and four candidates. Before explaining this in more detail, I would like to respond to the incorrect statement by Mr Rokavac, who declared the United List of Social Democrats a violation of the coalition treaty. Whoever takes the text of the coalition contract into his hands and will look under item 5 on relations with the Holy Headquarters, in a chapter defining issues related to foreign policy, he will be able to read, inter alia, that after neither signed nor initialled agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal matters, I am talking about 15 May 2000, which is why efforts have been made to settle legal issues in the coalition again. However, let me say that here the coalition partners have decided that if the interest in the agreement is renewed, then the coalition will propose amendments in the new negotiations. These corrections will be based on the indisputable fact that the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia must respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, should contribute to the clarity of the text. If, after a new round of negotiations and after revisions, there were still doubts about constitutionality, the government would send an agreement before ratification to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. There's a dot. Now I ask you whether a coalition partner who questioned the clarity of the provisions of the Vatican Agreement had no right in the government to demand what was written here, nor did it require any referendum judgment or anything like that. So much for the Vatican agreement. I didn't intend to discuss the letter first either. However, since the letter has been stated so many times today, let me say that if there was any cynicism in me, then I would say that the writer of this letter managed to get himself into a general sense of interest at a time when the thoughts of others revolved around other people. The letter was addressed to each Member or Member by name, i.e. to me personally, and was signed by name and surname and function. So allow me to express my view of this letter. Everyone has the right to write letters, everyone has the right to express their opinions, but if the public office holder and a member of the government suggest to me how to decide, then I have the right to say publicly that I do not need such impostors. Secondly, since I was appointed as the addressee and because the signatory was also appointed, I consider it a disgrace that the candidate for the post of Minister of Justice was not given enough attention to be named by the name and surname she has. What was said in the letter was already quoted twice today, namely, on the Internal Policy Committee. I now turn to the debate on the Internal Policy Committee. Today’s debate repeats itself in many ways, and it is interesting to note that events receive an appropriate interpretation according to the speaker. I was also at that meeting of the Internal Policy Committee at which we adopted the report of the Attorney General. I remember well that it was not one thought to reject or disapprove of the report submitted by the Attorney-General.But I remember that some of her official documents were circulated or commented on as free files, which is certainly not an appropriate indication for an official document, that a person should think of what he wants. However, the official institution has sent the report to the official institution. Even the occasional companion of Slovenian political developments cannot escape much of the discrepancy between what the position and opposition claim to be their joint project. This is the successful integration of Slovenia into the European Union. This is a statement that we hear many times and, on the other hand, we are witnessing an ongoing attempt to destabilise the government and government policy and the methods by which it seeks to achieve its objectives. Let me remind you of the many statements we witnessed in the National Assembly when it was possible to hear how we did not have a normal judiciary, how we did not have a normal government, and how many others, in the opinion of some, were not normal, which would all lead to a chaotic situation. And that's actually what I think is a big misunderstanding. On the one hand, the expression of great will and desire to regulate things, and on the other hand the constant warning or reference to emergency situations. If we were up to a stable policy and a stable government, then we should not, in fact, be too naive to relate, what I am about to say is that we should be more comfortable today when we are discussing four candidates and a candidate to fill empty ministerial seats. In particular, carrying out ongoing business just before entering the European Union and not exercising all the powers it has in the ministerial office is certainly not what would help to ensure the good functioning of the government. That is why I think that this discrepancy between one and the other is very obvious and even more pronounced because in recent times it has been common to hear that in the national assembly and even in the government we do not deal with the things that we should actually be dealing with and which are in the interest of the State. I think it is in the interests of the state and the public that we have a full government as soon as possible. It is often possible to hear about the same things in very different judgments. What bothers me is that some have the right to the patent to the truth. But it's even more complicated because some also own a patent on expertise. What am I talking about? It looks like experts are the only ones coming from one political bloc. Indeed, just as experts are not uniform and unison in their doctrines, they also have the right to their political definition. It is certainly not the left hand which challenged their credibility to the experts if they expressed their political definition. I remember only one of the first political divisions, political because it was a substrate from which the definition of expertise or other competences grew. You'll know if I say some people in this country are reasonable and others aren't. I remember Matjaž Kmecla and his Post-Thoughts. One of his essays says about what happens to a man in a profession who enters politics, how politics treats him. As with such a man who has entered politics, the cultural sphere no longer acts with pity. I appreciate the decision of the five to perform this function, because I consider them to be professionally competent, but they enter the world of politics into political functions, which may be more marked by their continuing professional life than they think they are at this moment. On this responsible path, I wish them well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Reploco has a colleague called Rokavec. I've already pointed out that a replica is just an opportunity to explain. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Just for an explanation, Mr. President. It is that, of course, the coalition treaty of the previous coalition has determined that constitutionality can be judged if there is doubt. It is unacceptable, however, that even after the White Day has been clearly written by the highest court in that country, that the proposal for an international law, the ratification of the so-called Vatican Agreement, is still against our Constitution. Of course, she voted against it because she had to be ideologically defined. But there were no consonants for it. That's the difference. That's it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Okay, here we go with the debate on the Prime Minister's proposal for four ministers and one minister. My friend Dr. Bernick has your word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam candidate, gentlemen candidates, ladies and gentlemen. For a while, I listened to your statement, Madam Attorney General, on the Internal Policy Committee, and I was surprised at your dictatorship, your ready answers, your independence, your self-assurance. But when I went to watch a little bit about what happened to you in the last, like politics, I got a slightly different picture. You also boasted that you had 30 years of experience as a prosecutor, but I would say that those first 20 years could write off immediately because you served in a non-democratic regime and you brought some luggage with you today. Before your appointment and all the time in your position, you have made it clear and loud that you will only care for the legality, equality before the law, professionality and professionality of the prosecution's work. But your history is a little different. In fact, right after the oath, I remember you took a few state prosecutors straight to the Hill to meet with the President of the State of Kučan, who is in practice totally unacceptable, in every democracy and in particular with us. I'm sure you've been given helpful instructions that you could then use. Immediately after the oath and before taking over the business on POP TV, you announced that you would withdraw the requirement to protect the legality in the matter of Bishop Rožman. And that's what you did. As a reason for the withdrawal, you did not state any legal reason, but only that, I quote, "not in the national interest," which is, of course, not a legal standard, but a political one. I think the DA, when you put it so well, has to work by law, but not by any means in any interest. The national or other interests of the Prosecutor shall be governed by the law adopted by the National Assembly. Of course, as I said, you have often made political decisions, and I don't know what that means by your conscience and ethics. But you are well aware that the old continuity, which you also belong to, has always been against this and, most importantly, against the bishop of Rozmanuobno. Why? You know why, because they must have told you. However, if this process were to be restored, I bet everything I have on this process to reveal all the wickedness, all the illegality, all the crime, all the evidence, the barbaric proceedings and, of course, the conviction. But you're not going to let that happen, and you're not going to, whether you're the Attorney General or you're the Minister of Justice. It will never allow this continuity to happen on its own. You also said you couldn't influence the court's decision. I don't know why this trial I mentioned goes up and down the courthouses. This is not entirely accidental, and you may be able to explain it to some extent. Well, then there's another thing. A few years ago, you officially wrote to Magu, which is said to be Sliven and to journalist Maga Shurli, and you called them to the defense because they published in their magazine the names of some of the directors who were accused of damaging social property. You wrote that the publication of these names is a crime, which is for sure because these names are protected by personal data and that you will do everything you can to ensure that those who have taken this information from the prosecution are found and punished. What really happened? You were the one who officially handed over 253 pages of protected personal data to three representatives of political parties who had no jurisdiction whatsoever in the criminal proceedings for which the prosecution collected this information and was allowed to use it. You have sent data, ma'am, in a letter stating that there is no basis for this act in the law, but you are sending it to the dapa, because it goes into quotations or your quote "for a wider social interest". Well, we're back there, what's the broader social interest, how you understand it, but certainly you weren't paid for it, you were paid to enforce the law. Then I'd go to Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. You removed it from the position of head of a special task force, and you placed Anton Ribnikar in this place, who had previously attacked this group as well as the former state prosecutor, who established the group, in an angry manner, that it was an anti-constitutional institution. But Ribnikar then lived from this anti-constitutional group, and not only did you set him a higher illegal salary than his predecessor had before. I believe that you have understood that so, in the Attorney General's Office, she has established a number of departments, as many departments as there were criminal attorneys, minus one, so that every state prosecutor, except Brezigareva, has become head of the department and has received an allowance to lead the department, even though he was in the department alone and has therefore led himself. Under the current rules of procedure of the Public Prosecutor's Office, however, a department may be established only if there are three state prosecutors. Now what does that mean? Did you gain obedience by buying from these illegal acts? Well, then here's Mr. Fisher, who looks like he's your boy at the State Attorney's Office and also his little girl like that. Nothing happened to anyone, and now the family of your prosecution seems to be very happy. Then let me mention as others have already mentioned Mr. Glavar. You were running to Ptuj, and I hear you even requested a special television team to go with you to witness this gentleman. But these very days this relief has fallen as illegal, and I think it may have taught you something, but it did not benefit the reputation of our country. Then Depala was you, and I'm not gonna talk about it, and then there was a case against Vink Levstik, which you dragged in the courts, and I don't know how many years. And you persisted in this case even after you received a written opinion from Ljub Bavcon, who is said to be a well-known criminal expert in the former Yugoslavia and also from us, when he gave an opinion, that the acts of Vinko Levstik did not involve war crimes that did not persist. Here too it burned, for he was completely forgiven. Apparently, ten years of revenge was a big, big political pursuit. Then I'd like to mention a few other things, and they're killed after the war. If you don't understand that this was a crime against humanity, then you don't understand anything. But if you don't understand anything, you wonder what your conscience is. When I asked you, and unfortunately, through the Justice Minister, who I didn't trust with anything special, you gave me answers that were very vague. But most of the time, a phrase appeared that he was still in research. It could be one year, or two years, or as long as it takes, there's always something in the research and you can't reveal it. I'm so sorry about that. Let me also say that when I asked what had happened to the Slovenian National Army or soldiers, the wounded who had been pulled out of Ljubljana's hospital beds were taken away and now there is no trace of them. There was a very well documented book on this thing, but you weren't interested in it at all, you didn't do anything until we from Parliament wanted you to do something. I can say that you have a great, I would say, pianist ability, because when the Slovenian Bistrica happened, and then something else happened, you flew all the way into Parliament, even though you said you would come to our parliamentary group, and someone, of course, taught you that it wasn't healthy for you, you flew up with all the television and so on, and you and Mr Pogorevec made extraordinary statements about how they would do what they would do. And what happened out of this: nothing. In addition to hearing that the Prime Minister will appoint you Minister of Justice, one of your prosecutors quickly shone in one of the journals, czech, yes, because we have already arranged everything, we will not continue it, it is not worth it and so on. Even so, if you have ever read this law about war graves, which is a real shame, lies are inside, shame, and so on. You should be the ones who asked for it. And we know who demanded it. Okay, I'll finish. Because I don't know enough about agriculture and so on, I wanted to devote my time to you. Gentlemen who are running for Minister of Economy, I would like to ask you a question. You're known as a super expert on very exotic and well-paid areas of the economy. Since I used to do something myself in this area, I know how these experts work. And I hope you're justifying it. Students fight to get into the classes of such experts. And I hope that's the way it is with you. But the patu is a nice problem. You'll be the minister, the work will be over, and now I want to know how many lessons you have, how many seminars you have and whatnot every week. How many students do you have at what level? What are your obligations at the university that you will always have to carry out when you are Minister? We have read recently that some ministers are selling their knowledge, which I think is very good, but within those boundaries that do not harm students at the university. That's why I want to know if you've been thinking about this. And finally, have you arranged these things directly with the university, or will you do what your predecessors did to get these jobs nicely, collected the money, and the students had to look into the air several times. I hope this doesn't happen to you. For the other ministers, it would be very nice to comment on something else, but I'm too ignorant about a few things that I could do, even though Mr Magi and I did. The training has already spoken to the committee, but it is sad that your prime minister, in order to economicize the whole process, has put everything in one package and now you will be elected in one package. If we don't like one of you, we're gonna have to vote against everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u103	You've given the most attention to the candidate for Minister, and now I'd like to turn you down. Madam candidate, you have the floor to answer. Please, you want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bernick, it is true that I have repeatedly proposed to your Group of Members to invite me to tell them certain things that interest you, but you have never invited me, and now I will tell you what I can tell you all. If I start from the end. Slovenia's Bistrica has been very intensively researched and this country has given great money to explore everything that could be investigated by the DNA method in order to determine where the victims came from, to put them in a specific position and also to establish legal qualifications. In fact, the property of the victims is important to determine which crime it is, whether it is a prisoner or a certain national group. And in this case, where this DNA procedure was conducted by my predecessor's daughter, Anton Drobnič, I can tell you that in no case has a confirmed relation been confirmed. I'm sorry the Bistricians were expecting their relatives to be buried in these trenches. That wasn't confirmed. A lot of people's interviews have been conducted, they have been heard before an investigative judge, we have been looking for documentation, not only in Slovenia, across Slovenia, and I must say that a special police team appointed by the General Police Administration, called Reconciliation, has just completed its final report on all the findings. Over 850 people were interviewed, 78 massive exhumations and various other acts were carried out, including the verification of the victim's belongings. We also made international contacts to try to bring those victims who belonged to other countries to the monument in one fifth. Well, we haven't made it here either. It's a matter of the state, not the prosecution. The D.A. has the task of identifying the perpetrator of the crime together with the police. This is where we went this way through the victims to set up a qualification. The state prosecutors have also prepared reports.It was found that these post-war killings in Slovenia were carried out by Slovenian Oz with various assistants. However, we did not find any documents and neither did the Archives of Slovenia, which went on a special trip to Belgrade to find out. I think that you will discover for yourselves that this research has been invested in a great deal of energy, a lot of work. This was done by young, unburdened people. These officers have absolutely nothing to do with any political option. I think that the National Assembly will make sure that this huge work, which has been submitted, also has certain results. We have revealed this historical aspect of these events. Nor is it true that we were not interested in the victims, the wounded who Dr. Lovro Sturm describes in his book. Dr. Sturm was with me personally, and we personally made a plan right in my office. The D.A. from Kočev, who is in charge of this subject, is investigating this. However, I must also say that the civil service of the Attorney General's Office has gone into another action. We're just finishing up the findings of death from this period through administrative units. Too much to talk about. It's the whole book. And it's not nice for the National Assembly to say that nothing was done. It was a huge one, only what can be put into the criminal procedure, but of course it is a professional decision. People didn't open up, they didn't say. But we haven't finished our work yet, and the work will continue. About the military graves. Of course, this is a matter for the legislator, not the judicial authorities, so we did not intervene in the work of the commission. But we came to the committee twice to report, and we were also present when they expressed their wishes. I can tell you that I personally advocated that in Slovenian Bistrica, namely, the municipality, they reimbursed part of the costs it had with the excavations, and this year the prosecutor gave them out of his money. So much so that I just show you a little bit that it's not that it's nothing. But nobody asks, you can't tell. If we move on to the other events you mentioned. As far as Bishop Rozman's concerned, I'll say as clearly as I've said many times. After my term of office as Attorney General, I withdrew the request for the protection of the rule of law against this judgment, in which German military commanders were also convicted in addition to Bishop Rozman. The requirement for the protection of legality is a legal remedy that entails the annulment of the entire judgment. However, I have left and is still in the process of re-establishing the criminal procedure against the same judgment and is in the stage of the proceedings before the court. The D.A.'s role in this work is to judge matters. This is the truth that I have explained several times. Not about the talk or the order. I'm the one who called for the Maga reporter's interview. Why? As they published a confidential property report, which was sent only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the request of the then President, Mr Drnovska, because they wanted to know the course of the procedure without knowing that the government did not actually have the authority to collect this information. The Prosecutor’s Office has the task and duty to report on its work once a year to the National Assembly, while otherwise the powers of other institutions to the Prosecutor’s Office are limited. We have made an exception here because there has been a great deal of economic damage, if there is not enough to be done in this area. When the report came to the government, we gave the label a confidential one. Inside there were personal data of people who had not yet been convicted of legal convictions from an economy that we did not know how the proceedings would end. There have been investigations, indictments and other stages of the proceedings. This report is still in government and is now confidential. No one has withdrawn the degree of confidentiality and I should actually withdraw it, and I am not and I will not. That's it. And the press has nothing to write about the State Attorney's confidential reports because someone leaked it. I have not given this to any Member, and I also hope that this material has not gone with the Government. But there's a minister. That's right. The Minister of Justice, Mr Marusic, today has him in his archives, Mr Bizjak. I did not remove Barbara Brezigar from any position, she resigned herself from the position of head of the group and declared that she would no longer work. I didn't appoint a new leader because it's not in my jurisdiction, but I appointed the acting colleague of Tonet Ribnikar. He led the group for several months until December 1999, when the government elected Jožica Bolje Brus. It was a procedure. I've never taken anything from Barbara Brezigar. I've never moved her anywhere, and I've been nice to her all along. I also gave duties, the one in charge of money laundering and drugs. Yes, that's right. Go take a look at the documents, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u105	There's no controversy in the bench and you can't nominate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u106	These are internal prosecutions. I wouldn't explain them here if I didn't say it was a truth for our Members, a truth that isn't. And it's about Glavar. The Glavar case was a police matter. The police went home and arrested him because it was a corrupt act and there was a fear that he would be able to influence the witnesses and hide the documents as a leader of the prosecution, who had access to all the documents before the act was dealt with. I didn't see him at all, because the procedure began with colleague Jožica Boljet Bruce. At the time, the group did so because the proceedings related to the crime of the Lončarič Criminal Association. It was a connection, we'd forgotten a little bit, that's history. But I would like to say that I have only had so much contact with this matter that after hearing it and a decision on the investigation was issued and a certain detention, as our law provides, I ordered the suspension and gave the initiative to dismiss the office of the Prosecutor's Office. That's all I've done in this case. I hope I said the main thing. Maybe just that, of course, everyone has the right to their own assessment of who's hanging out with whom. We have to hang out with everyone. I'm hanging out with everyone, and I'm ready to have a dialogue with everyone, and I wouldn't say that it's now because someone's there or here, that something means that it's bad or that it's good. I have always cultivated such relationships in my former country. I have to tell you that if I had any sins in the former country, we would have discovered them by now. From what I've heard, they've been looking very closely at my stuff. All I'm saying is that I personally don't have a feeling and I don't remember ever stepping over the law. But I have also worked 13 years on juvenile matters, and I have been very much, in fact, a specialist in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Candidate for Minister of Justice. Now Dr. Lahovnik wishes to respond to your statement, or to his colleague Bernik. For a moment, please. Dr. Lakhovnik is a candidate for the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. At first, I didn't mean to respond, because apparently today most of the opposition fire is directed elsewhere, but some have been so kind, and they have also given me a few shots, so I think it's kind of right to answer your questions. I must say, I had some problems because I did not fully understand some of the questions. For instance, the Honourable Ambassador of Mags. A trifle asked what was going on with those billions that had been thrown away about the rehabilitation of businesses. You know that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is quite balanced here. As on the one hand advocates the development of high value-added activities, as is the case with the technological restructuring programme, you have also adopted a law in this National Assembly on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. The purpose of this law was primarily to prevent certain shocks that were suffered mainly by the leather and textile industries. The fact is, even the most economically liberal countries, if you want, the neoliberal and the United States of America know similar intervention laws when they help businesses in certain serious difficulties to protect possible over-loss of jobs. The best example is what happened in the aviation industry, even if you want a very loud case of Chrysler, which would by no means be such a success story, a successful strategic transformation if the state did not intervene. We have certain cases in Slovenia, such as Mura, Morningka, also in the problem textile industry. But these companies have clearly developed their own restructuring programme. This programme, last but not least, had to be approved and all the funds allocated to these companies must be spent strictly on purpose. You can also observe the process of strategic transformation in some companies, I have already mentioned two, who are trying to create a greater share of their activities on the basis of their own brands and with less sophisticated businesses, where, as you know, the profits are significantly lower. Personally, I think that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been quite balanced here. I have to say, when I said I don't understand the question, I said because, on the other hand, they asked me on the same committee what the government would do in the case of Alpina and so on. In short, if something is done, or when it helps companies to transform strategically, it is a problem if nothing is done, and it is obvious that there is a problem. In a way, I have to say that I did not understand those questions the most, so I did not comment on them either. As far as ownership is concerned. Mr Bajuk gave me this question and talked about ownership networks. In short, like in some other European countries, companies sometimes provide a more stable ownership structure with mutual ownership. This mutual ownership is often an introduction to later capital ties, which are often meaningful, can ever be no, but of course the market decides to do so. What is most important is that it protects the interests of small shareholders. Into is the task of the takeover law. This has also been given great attention in the existing law. You know, however, that the first waves of capital connections in the United States have been the end of the 19th century; that we have passed a takeover law in Slovenia in 1997 and that we therefore have a rather limited practice in this area. When certain shortcomings, which I have also written publicly about, emerged in Slovenia, the government prepared a new law on takeovers. This novel will come to the National Assembly and there will also be the possibility of making amendments and, if they make sense, of course they will be taken into account. The fact is that my position here is clear: the interest of small shareholders is extremely important and must be protected. And that's exactly what the takeover law does. In this regard, I have also stated my position that I am aware of the problem that the Securities Market Agency has had insufficient powers and that there are certain changes that will also be made in this law. After that, as far as corporate income tax is concerned. Some have been skeptical in their debates, if I may be naive, that I do not know the possible situation concerning the corporate income tax. I am fully aware of all the changes that have been addressed in this National Assembly. And the fact is that that initial proposal could have been under-developed. It is also true that the economy has also made a number of comments on that proposal, particularly on the practices of the economy, and that certain changes have been introduced later. And, as you know, there are now so-called 10% plus 10% investment relief systems. This means that firms investing in technological development have the potential to benefit from additional incentives. This is precisely what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to encourage, and what I think is in the interest of this country or our economy, that the technological restructuring or investment focus mainly on activities that increase the competitive advantage of the Slovenian economy, but not, I will say, is now ugly, especially in real estate or cars. In short, this is a very targeted measure that I think makes sense. It should also be pointed out that in view of Slovenia's changes, it is still one of the European countries with the lowest effective tax rate, which will be around 17%. This is also an important motivation for investors who intend to invest in Slovenia. As I said, there have been some changes here, and I think that these changes have made sense, and I think the government has also responded appropriately to critical comments from the economy. Yes, I do. It was mentioned that, honourable Member, Petty Officer or honourable Member, Mr Bernik, asked me about my duties at the university. I have already explained on the Committee on the Economy that we are in the middle of a semester, but it is somehow fortunate that the semester is ending and that I had most of the obligations in the autumn semester, so I am currently finishing lectures on one subject with 40 students. I know that the other part of the question about the attendance of my lectures, you thought somehow more cynically, unfortunately, but the fact that my selection subject "Consolidations and takeovers" enrolled about 100 students - in fact it is optional - and no one is forcing them to do so. In short, they put it in because I include in these lectures colleagues from the economy, so I am confident - and I guarantee it - I will not lecture more than three times on the postgraduate programme, because, as I said, the work is very balancedly distributed. Of course, I am aware of the responsibility of the work that I have to do if I am confirmed as Minister of Economy and, of course, all my activities have been subordinated to him to work in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if I am confirmed. Of course, because of the certain commitments I have made in college, it seems right for me and especially for the students to complete these obligations properly. However, as I have already said, they will in no way affect the possible reduced intensity of work in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if I am confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Dr. Laharnik, for these explanations. Let's move forward in order. Now it's my colleague Tanko's turn, and he's got his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. All welcome, fellow Members and also candidates for ministerial functions. First of all, in the introduction, I think that this move by the Prime Minister is irrational, as the time for effective work is no longer and despite the Prime Minister's statement that he has proposed in these functions people who do not need 100 days of peace to be perfectly recognised and everywhere in the world, it has also been clear from the responses of the candidates that it is clear to know such complex content as are covered by individual ministries and that it is also necessary for these ministries to manage effectively everything more than an optimistic and demagogic statement by the Prime Minister that candidates do not need those 100 days and that they can start working immediately. However, this statement does not have a practical basis and is based solely on this worst case, that is to say 46 votes in the process of today's or tomorrow's vote. Responses to the "hearings" have confirmed that in just a few days the candidates had at their disposal were unable to compensate for the deficit that candidates bring with them and which was due to objective reasons, because these tasks and similar tasks have not yet been carried out. I myself participated in one 'hearing' and despite the good preparation of the candidate and the good references it was clear that this deficit remained and that it was still necessary for a certain period of time. In such a short time as the candidate had, he can only present the plans and the projections and all that has been presented, it is quite clear that within a few months until the end of the mandate it is not objectively possible to realize. At the same time, I cannot pass the fact that after the end of the three-month incarceration period, or the introduction period, each of the candidates can only work effectively for a month and a half, of which 30 days during summer holidays, there will be 45 days left in which the electoral campaign will take place, in which the ministers will be most involved, and the real time of the active work of candidates or later ministers will be 15 days. I must say that I agree with the Prime Minister's statement that these are candidates for the next term, but I must say that the government has afforded itself an extremely expensive scholarship policy, because instead of combining the elections with the European elections and saving 600,700 million for elections that could be spent on food subsidies or on the transport of students, students, to value textbooks, the government has simply received an extremely expensive delay because the government wants to remain in power for every price and for the last day possible. Rationalisations are foreign to this government and are expected only from citizens and the opposition, because we should understand all the government's difficulties and the problems of the current authorities. When it comes to turning, however, the government itself does something rational, at least as it can do so, preventing it from doing so as a state’s or even more party’s interest. And if I express myself in one of the languages of our nations, we can say "and nothing" then forward. Since the Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that new candidates do not need 100 days and that they can start working competently and with full steam immediately, the question of his current staff choice is also raised. How could he propose and three and a half years in the government to watch and suffer ministers who were nothing special, who were obviously or perhaps the crumbs of government work and development of Slovenia, and which, by the way, replaces them by night with people who are already leaving at the start, even before they even occupied the ministerial chair, completely or least equivalent. So what ministers were Potočnik, Booth, Presečnik, Petrinova and Bizjak? What quality is the rest of the government, and also what quality is the Prime Minister, who has been quietly monitoring such ministers and their apparently bad work for so long? At the same time, I would like to touch on the choice of the candidate for the Minister of Justice, because I have a feeling that this is a person who is somewhat related to the past work of the current Prime Minister. At times, the current Prime Minister was the State Secretary for Privatisation and the most responsible person, functionally the first operative of the country to carry out the property transformation process. This process has created a handful of extremely rich transition magnets, which have enjoyed an extremely large share of the former common property. It does not need to be stressed that this process has been accompanied by extremely many irregularities, that there have been very many injuries and places of public property, that a number of citizens have been harmed, that many injustices have been committed, and that there have been very many reports. However, as can be seen from the recent inventory of the State Prosecutor's Office, about 160 files were unrecorded, undocumented, questioned. In short, no investigations were initiated, except that trials could begin at all. And we can see that privatisation was statistically perfect: no mistakes, no places, no findings of any damage. In short, everything is perfect and nowhere does the spirit hear about corruption. However, he accuses these 160 files, the untouched writings. He accuses the prosecution, as well as the Attorney-General, of the last term of office, and also accuses all other preventive and curative authorities and institutions of that country of the last decade. The prosecution because the files that could be read from the media were not even logged into the record. The post office of the SDS Council in Ljubljana City Council has also been lost. And it happened also in the case of a SIB application - and this happened at the time of the current Attorney General - only the continuation of more or less well-known and run-off practice, which was certainly not led by the secretary in the prosecution, but was probably systematically guided and directed. How is it that all these applications can be ignored by the authorities? How can these be ignored by governments, secretaries and ministers, heads of government who were or were responsible for privatisation? Who is objectively and subjectively responsible in this case? Did anyone wonder how many natural and legal persons and how much value the charges against the prosecution were filed? Are there political and other links between responsible privatisation policies and privatisationists? And we can ask ourselves whether anyone might have even wondered what the role of the current Prime Minister was then and throughout that period. Why isn't anyone in charge of the prosecution suspended? Why hasn't the government launched any investigations yet and turned into silence? And we can ask ourselves whether the full burden of the transition and the incomprehensible part of the prosecution will be met only through the voluntary resignation and redeployment of the Iron Prosecutor, the discharge of Prosecutor Bruce and the promotion of Cerarov. I also wonder if such a solution is even possible in the rule of law. And the lady who has been responsible for the prosecution's work over the past five years and has guided the work of this institution, which has allocated the work between the prosecutions and between the prosecutors, who has mediaically taken over all the achievements of the prosecution, which is suddenly no longer responsible for this great negligence and a great mistake! Is she solely responsible for TV shows and for successfully representing the success of her colleagues, and failures and blemishes are no longer part of this cycle? And the lady, who has been in charge of the custodian for the past few years - the full cabinet of intact files - has taken care to preserve the good name of the former State Secretary for Privatisation, the late Minister for Labour and Finance and the current Prime Minister - this same President proposes her as Minister for Justice. And what is it called in practice? See, in recent Court of Auditors reports more or less in the annual report, we find many violations of the Public Procurement Act, they have been divided [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u112	large individual amounts for a number of purposes, without invitations to tender. So it's illegal. It was cumulatively billions of dollars, but there was no concrete response from the authorities of this country. The Court of Auditors has, in some way, considered this stalemate, although it has reported that the Public Procurement Office as an active legitimacy body has not acted; even more so, the chairman of this body has even advanced to the Ombudsman of public information. The prosecution and the other authorities have not acted. In short, we can talk about a very bad certificate for all those who are called for supervision and the legal and proper functioning of this country. And I wonder how, after being the motivator of the judicial branch of power, someone who for many years has accompanied a fully unmotivated state prosecutor and allowed him to forget the full closet or even more cabinets of the files. After all, Mr Rupl's letter is not as innocent as it may seem and as it wishes to appear in public. Today's statement by Mr Rupl on television also shows nothing about what a pink picture is doing in this government. And perhaps many have wondered how it is even possible to run an effective government in which such relations rule. Perhaps a few more words about the candidate, on the "hearing" where I was - this is about Mr Pavlich. I must say that he has presented an extremely idealistic view of the development of the department or the work in the department; that many of these activities are conceived in the activities of the Minister so far, in essence only to pursue the policy of his predecessor. In our opinion, this one has quite a flaw. In particular, the lack of ownership of both Darsa and Slovenian railways. In both cases, large funds will be allocated at the expense of new co-owners so far by a public undertaking. This will also reduce resources in the transport sector, both on the railway and on the road. And for the same scope of the works, if not the other, at least public debt will have to be increased. However, if we want to maintain public debt somehow, this leads directly to a reduction in investments both in one segment and in the other. It's particularly catastrophic that Dars actually has an unlimited concession. If anyone reads the Dars law accurately, they find that the concession is unlimitedly long. Similarly, it is likely that something similar will happen in the railway work, with this railway work being previously repaired, both human and technologically, and so cleaned and repaired parts will then be sold or privatized. And all of this is essentially going to take place with extraordinary or almost no control, because the supervisory council has been abolished - it has not been abolished, but the composition of the supervisory board proposes in Darsa government, it is said that the opposition does not have any verification and that more or less will happen only within the same circle. Also, all of these contracts, which will be concluded in Dars, I will say, are a business secret, both in terms of commissions and these normal returns, and this alone shows that there will be large outflows from public work to private work. This will, in any event, have to be covered either with higher taxes or with lower investment volumes, and I must say that I am extremely surprised that this policy will continue in this part. The next thing that I think is actually kind of problematic is that it's forgotten about individual areas. By now these were areas that were more or less closed because they were very poor when there was no highway. With the construction of the network, these links have deteriorated relatively significantly and these closed areas are essentially increasing and I must say in this area that everything needs to be done more actively than to continue the policy of the current Minister. The problem is also a gas tolar, about 50% of the gas tolar has been released from the system and it is not really clear, nor has there been a clear answer to the questions about how these sources will be replaced. In short, I think that this is an extremely problematic approach to transport work, which will continue to plague the development of a wide range of areas. All these laws, which we adopt concerning regional development and other content, will not fully achieve any effect. In the end, I would like to ask myself another question. In short, given that some of the candidates are professors, would you ask whether they may be involved in these matters with the high authorial fees that we have been following in the media lately? But I must also say that I will not support the leaves as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor to invite the minister's candidate, Dr. Pavli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Mr President, honourable Members and, of course, my fellow Members, if I may say so! I didn't want to take the floor, but I would like to start by finding that it was obvious that my hearing was on Friday beans against the wall, although the media assessed it as one of the best in the history of such hearings and although it took three hours. However, some observations or answers, depending on the arrows that were directed at me; and here I will follow my colleague Kacin so that I will not mention the names, because I suppose if you mention the names, you will immediately risk replicas that can last up to four in the morning. Among other things, it was obvious that whatever I was doing and in any way supposed to do it would be continuity. Of course, everyone overlooked that in addition to this continuity I had warned how this continuity would be spiced up with some new vision, idealism and projects that unfortunately cannot be compressed into just a few months' work. As far as idealism is concerned, I ask you once again, for God's sake, how can a man, whether he is a professor, a pain in the ass or anyone else, go on such an adventure as we are going on? Believe me, without idealism it is not possible - even if we sit here until three o'clock in the morning, some idealism is necessary, if not a good condition. It's about the maritime code. I reiterate - and I hope to learn a little about this subject - the change in the maritime code regarding our rights in extra territorial belts was not legally necessary. Article 8 of the Constitution allows or requires all ratified conventions to be applied directly, both by the courts and by the other profession. But politically, you've made the right decision. Politically, such a change was probably a good, useful height of Croatia, which has these belts, for example, an exclusive economic zone since 1994, and it is interesting that no one has stumbled until they started working in this direction for seven years. Legally speaking, that's not necessary. And I will tell you again, I do not wish to allow you to take into account all ratified international bilateral, such and other conventions in all regulations. The maritime code already has 999 articles, and if we follow other conventions, we can quietly change it to 10,000 articles or 20,000 articles, and you will only consider one code half of your mandate. About the tolls, the obvious. At the end of February, you yourself adopted a national programme for the construction of motorways, which writes more or less everything about these tolls. How can I, as a lawyer, take over the post of Minister of Transport and then not ensure the continuity of the legal acts adopted? Please don't ask me to do this. I'm supposed to be advocating continuity in rail transport. That's just not true. You can go listen to a magnetogram where I criticised the 1996 rail national programme. He said it was only 12% realized; then someone fixed me because I made a catastrophic kick because it was supposedly 12.5% realized. And I also mentioned in my programme that I will immediately make sure that the working group starts work to prepare a new national programme - what is continuity? With regard to tourist destinations and Rogle, etc. - I think that the debate has been in this place many times and, of course, we have neither the time nor the energy to reopen it. This problem is certainly important, tourism is one of the vital activities and I will explore it, of course in accordance with the adopted regulation, and not least in the light of the creation of a new national programme and in the field of state resources and, of course, in connection with local authorities. Undoubtedly, however, it would be a warm recommendation for any suggestions in this direction, not least living alone in a small village in Primorska. Finally, the continuity, that's what I've been talking about, maybe the answer to the fees. I knew this would come sooner or later, but maybe I can answer on behalf of all my colleagues. As far as I am concerned, these fees are such that I do not nearly achieve VAT commitment, I hope you know what this means, but, of course, concrete data are - if they are not contrary to the personal data law - always available to the tax administration or to the author agency. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kramberger to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable candidate, esteemed candidates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like briefly to discuss this long debate, which will probably take some time to make some thoughts and some conclusions. Look. Slovenia has reached such standards in quite a short time that we have come to the threshold of the European Union and will become full members of the European Union in a few days' time. See, now, customers, here in this national assembly, we are able to when we are unable to unify on some of the key issues and our work is primarily focused on separating the Slovenian people. Here we are looking for or talking about those things that separate people; here I am thinking about topics such as: deleted, mosque, then same-sex partners, if you want, and only such things. Here I cannot help but say that the current Prime Minister and also the President of the largest opposition party, who is somehow the most called and most responsible for this policy-making direction, has failed to somehow reap those extreme political summits and allow this to be introduced, I would say, some kind of unrest in Slovenian politics. And all this time since I've been in this house, I've never worked for it. And I think that the former Prime Minister was more sensitive to these issues and he did not allow it. I think that at this time we should find some creative vision and show the Slovenian people exactly this, that is, the future in the European Union, but not separate them. However, as far as the proposed candidate list is concerned, I must say that for some candidates, the prime minister had a good hand, as is said, and for some, a little less. I don't want to repeat some things, but when I read Dr. Lakhovnik's CV, which is proposed as Minister of Economy, I have to say that there is such a close scientific career behind him; in short, he has been very successful in these years. And I think that in this place, which he will undoubtedly occupy, as Minister of Economy, he would certainly benefit from the experience of the economy. In fact, when a person is once faced with an act that he has to earn money, that he has to pay the workers, that he has to get paid, that he has to pay the tax, that's when he sees things differently. I think that if a candidate had such an experience, he could certainly have been a much more successful minister than he would have been without this experience. Unfortunately, the rules of procedure or decision make it impossible for them to decide individually on the candidates. Indeed, some would undoubtedly support it. But since we're going to vote in the package, I'm going to have to vote against it. Without a doubt, there will be enough votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Lavrinco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to say that my choice of prime minister is a real joy. Why? He did not choose among the politicians, he chose among the experts and thus deprived us quite a bit of trouble - well, now a little less because the SLS have left us - to share these resources with each other and to consider who will occupy them. Of course, this is limited by pay, so whoever is waiting for, for example, the City of Economic Minister of some top manager would say to take Thomas More into his hands, which is said to have been a utopian socialist and he could explain these things. Well, that's why I'm glad it's such a choice. That's the first one. Secondly, many times this evening or this afternoon, it was said that the SLS had been thrown out of the coalition and, of course, now all of these collapses. That's not true. The SLS betrayed us, and at some crucial point when it was necessary to stop or escape, they fled. And, of course, I am sure that Slovenian people can assess what it was and who is actually responsible for these stories, these stories and accidents, and that they will also be able to do so in elections appropriate to "reward" - in narrations. And now I'm going to say one more thing, I'm giving up hope of enlightening anyone's mind -- no speech, on the contrary. I will also say this; I will take the point of my discussion, that a thousand wise men cannot answer one stupid one. But I will reverse it, and I will say that a thousand faithful and well-intentioned cannot answer one wicked one. And I'm gonna keep building like this. I will be trapped in the trap of my dear colleague Kangler, who, just to read from the magnetogram, said: "...but I was surprised by some of the things that happened in this house" - he mentions me as the vice-president of the LDS, Mr Max Lavrinc - "... and I will dare quote from a tapegram from this committee two sentences. Colleague Lavrinc, Max Lavrinc, Chairman of the Committee: The First Lady of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office must be said that her legal beauty is only for children, especially if she says that she is using the so-called'sharp approach' in organised crime." Now I am reading from the tapegram of that committee meeting where this was said and see: I am talking about the need for prosecutors to tell, when they give their report, how they see the court, because we are the politicians here and we need to hear all sides. And then I go like this: "But look, we're politicians, and we're between hammer and hammer. That's what I have to say. The public is putting more pressure on us. People want more of us. In short, the backlogs are problematic. We don't have flowers on our hands. And then I say, "But look" -- this is the 10th page magnetogram, buddy Kangler! "But see if they write us in the daily paper [[Say "up" to "up" to "up" to "up to" to "up to" to" to "up to" to "up to" ……]] : 'The first ladies of the Slovenian prosecution should say that her legal beauty is only for kindergarten, especially if she says that she is using the so-called'sharp approach' in organised crime, we need an additional explanation of what is toin so far'so that we can appease taxpayers. So, you need to understand us all who are looking over there to ask you a question" - and so on. In short, I talk about it all the time. Then I'm talking about how education is organised and so on. And of course, if someone is angry to say so, or tried to set me up with one trap, then use it, then for those of the believers who are watching television right now, it turns out to be, let's say, it was really said. That's why I explained it. But to keep going - why did colleague Kangler do this? So that I give him a chance, because I mention him, for the replica and, of course, in the replica he will tell me that he was my mentor - well, it is known that in Ubba.net is also my name as a professionally almost there employee, that he will be able to give me an opportunity - so that I give him the opportunity to say that he was my mentor, this is supposed to be Miha Brac - I have never so high up in that job, I have to say - that he taught me badly. You see, this is all a game, but it's a game for uneducated people and I, to be honest, will say I'm sad about it. Sad because people who, say, vote Jansha and believe in him believe everything he says here. Whatever he says! And they're kind of mad at us. And when those who believe in me and in our customers, when they hear me, say, "Look at those bastards there!" And then you wonder what we're actually doing. We're just doing what we've been doing all along, what I remember, and that's trying to share people in this country. Why? Why, I'm asking you. Manny thinks it's bullshit, really! And why do I think it's stupid? Because with us people have not fully understood the role of the position and the opposition, not yet today, I tell you that today, I am sure, in front of television screens a large number of people who believe everything they see, although much of it is a purely ordinary game, but really a purely ordinary game. And when I listen to those who lost the game in the elections, how they want to tell us and everyone in Slovenia, that we are actually fools, because we have come to victory, I don't know, with such and different 'faves' so to speak, with misdemeanors and so on; of course, the story is still almost a little bit more funny and I will tell you something about these discussions. [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, I'd like you to calm down, Mr. Jerovska. He's known to go into word and try to deconcentrate, but he's not going to make it because I have enough time. I'll tell you one more thing first. So, since we've been listening before, let's say it's Comrade Jansha. He talked about the fact that the candidate did not do her job, because - the Fisher case was being cited - she did not arrange it as necessary. You should, of course, put him in criminal proceedings because he's corrupt and so on; on the contrary, even more! Add to short notice: a woman has been hired there by the Prime Minister. The second point is that the candidate lady is almost a personal friend - you worked together with Mariani Iron. I know both of them personally, and I know that Mrs Cerarjev had no idea for a long time who the railroad was, but that's not how they all know each other. Well, and these kind of suctions are masterpieces and masters are here. For me, the greatest master is Janez Janša, but not so bad his pupil is already, say, Franz Kangler. And why don't the lady candidates like it? If I ask you why not, look, you could listen to the reports today: The Ruperator was again indicted for a crime of abuse of his official position. Now, who are these people who are suing and bringing them to justice, the scoundrels, especially the scoundrels, only those who commit crimes will love them now? I'm sure my friend Rupar can't be too excited about the D.A.'s work and so on. After it is heard that it is the most "gay" - to say so in our language - precisely the prosecutor whom Mrs Barbara Brezigar, contrary to the opinion of the personal commission, put on this place - must, of course, throw blood in his pockets and break any cord. Then I remember Depala Village, how she wouldn't, who she wasn't from us. Janez Janša is involved in this story, and because there was some deviation from the prosecution - in short, when the prosecutor takes up the role where the judge, the prosecutor and all at the same time, was even required of our colleague the official supervision of Barbara Brezigar's work. That's theirs! And it's obviously theirs! And if anyone ever resents you, Madam Candidate, it is that you have allowed yourself as the Attorney General's Attorney General to play the Attorney General's office in the morning and a top politician in the afternoon. I resent even my President of the country, whom he accepted as a politician at noon. Well, then we've got a story on guns. Look, the things Barbara Brezigar did at the time, the way she worked, she's credited to the D.A. She really influenced her colleague not to hear, for God's sake, Mr Janez Janša. She even wrote a letter - we could read it all in Youth and what we faxed. And now, of course, if I do it myself, it's normal for me to think that everyone does it, even though it's not legal. And here I am -- even when that letter came to me by my dear friend Dimitri Ruple, when he wrote a letter, why the candidate, for example, would not be appropriate, we talked before, and I explained to him that the prosecution system was set up differently than elsewhere, and we even brag about it. Why? Because any "little prosecutor" can judge anyone that it's right that he's in accordance with the law - he's being prosecuted. And that's not how the general says, "Wow, we're going to go after this, and we're not going to go after that, that's ours." That's not how it works! Well, the next story, why I understand that the environment - especially those in this case the transmission of certain desires and policies - is critical mainly of the candidate, is her critical attitude towards notaries, to what is actually happening in that area, is her commitment to a serious and critical assessment of judicial backlog. I was abused in the discussion we had with Mr. Biščak on TR3, we say domestically, but otherwise at the party, we had a press conference. From 15 minutes of implementation and from 10 minutes of implementation, they took 7 words or 8 words away from him and 2 words from me. Turns out all the judges are lazy! That's not true! I never said that, I never meant that; but among them are those who need to be awakened from winter sleep and, of course, they are those who try to influence such and other ways, of course, on all others. And among those who feel the same way as themselves, she's a candidate, so I'm happy. Now to the end: we do have some heroes here in these kinds, of the five candidates, as far as they are offered, there is only one woman. I have to say, the hat down, that's how you put it on her, I'd say Katanec. One more thing. I think the candidates for the ministers will be good, because they will stand the pace, and they have to get used to the late-night meetings. Thank you very much. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler has a replica or explanation of Mr Lavrinc's incorrect statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I'll try to be brief. My colleague Lavrinc, as one appropriate politician, also seems to me to apologize to you, because, in fact, when I read the tape, I missed what it said was "in the daily paper." You'll probably accept this and honestly tell you, it would also be fair with your stuff to quote your entire magnetogram, where you "burned" the Attorney General, at home, so that the "glies" flashed in the hall of Tomščičev. You have to admit that, and the Attorney General knows that, and he can confirm that, and you can't avoid it. You've changed the board now, haven't you? As far as your special function or course or mentoring is concerned - I admit, colleague Lavrinc, I have repeatedly provoked you to have a bad mentor because of Ubba.net. I have provoked you many times, and I have never said this publicly and publicly; this is what you did for the first time today, and I have also mentioned to you several times when you have replicated and advertised the activities of some individual colleagues from the SDS, especially Miha Brejc, who used to work or who was the director of the State Security Service, and you were on the list as a reservist. And you admitted it yourself in a joke, but also in fact, you had a bad mentor. And with that, I honestly said what I meant. I hope you don't mind. And what's true is true. You two will probably be able to talk to each other, who and how, as some say, played cards in the Kočevska River or elsewhere. Yes, but you're throwing me with my colleague Janša that we're some kind of co-worker - it's true that since you guys erased us, we both have the same function at this point in time: we're both in opposition. That's all there is between me and the president of the SDS. As far as I'm concerned, as you said, the Slovenian People's Party has issued a coalition. At this moment, I think that in a few months, who and how has issued this country or Slovenia because of the conflict and the problems that have been erased will be an opportunity. Hey, buddy Max, maybe we'll talk about this somewhere else and another time. And I hope that you accept my apology and that you haven't offended me with these comments as far as mentoring and things like that are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Thank you very much. To Word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u122	The vice-president shall exceptionally be permitted a replica of the replica: I accept the apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable candidate, respected candidate. Colleagues and colleagues. I will not be the first or I am not the first to evaluate the Prime Minister's proposal from the regional position of representation of the government cabinet and, unlike some, I can be more than satisfied. The last minister was Mag. Franc Avberšek during the first Drnovšek government. Later on, we had the Secretary of State for Energy, and for 12 years we were without a Minister from the Shaleska Valley. Furthermore, there is also some symbolism in the appointment of Dr. Matthew Lahovnik. For I come from an environment that has been in the past is today and will be an important factor in the economic performance of our country in the future with smart policies. Our space is also economic and has always been open in Europe. Even in this area, we are not without experience and it is right for the government department to lead the mag. Milan Cvikl, who is coming just as the future Minister of Economic Affairs from Velenje, spent some time abroad and has gained much experience in this regard. As with the remaining three candidates, whether candidates or candidates, it is not possible to detect inequities, but of course it is possible for each individual to do stories, including me and all others, without exception, present in this Chamber. When the Prime Minister first proposed only two new candidates for the Minister and both Velenjskis, I had little concern that only the Velenjians were willing to run for this term of office. Now that we have, thanks to the Slovenian People's Party, a list of five new ones, the picture is slightly different. The six-month period, which does not allow for significant changes and innovations in individual departments, may also be questionable in this case. However, we already have experience from the previous mandate when we replaced the entire government and gained a government coalition through its operation, which is strong enough and quality to successfully complete its mandate after leaving a coalition partner. So, just enough time to prove your abilities and current government with other colleagues and colleagues to ensure a renewal of the mandate. However, at this time they will certainly not or will not hide in the shadows and safely hide from criticism, as will the experts of the opposition parties who will form a shadow government. The normal functioning of the government therefore requires the measure proposed by the Prime Minister. I'll allow his judgment that he had a happy hand in choosing. It would certainly be naive to expect the opposition's support, but it is not. The responsibility lies primarily with the coalition and the parties that form it will be rewarded or punished for the government's activities. I'm sure today's appointed team will be successful in its work. If I wasn't sure about this, we wouldn't be getting my vote of support today. This story does not ignore the political maturity of the coalition parties, which in this case did not have very important time for Slovenia to conduct human resources purchases, which, by contrast, allows for a number of votes from individual parties. I am confident that the number of coalition votes of Members and Members will be reflected today in the vote. In doing so, I should be allowed, for the sake of correctness, to finally thank the Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Preseknik, for his creative cooperation, with whom I had the most contacts from the outgoing ministerial team.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My word to Mrs. Areh Lavrič. Mrs. Sonja? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. Only to warn you, 36 Members and Members of Parliament have yet to speak. It is not in my power to do anything other than ask that everyone who has yet to be reported kindly to try to communicate in the shortest possible time what you have set out to do, otherwise tonight will be a really long night. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Respectable candidates or candidates for the Minister! You've made up your mind to take this step. You've been invited by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister also decided to engage new people, he did not decide to eventually set up state secretaries who knew the areas relatively well. So there were some misunderstandings at the beginning when we had these presentations. You have represented different strategies, what you will do. Did you realize you've been coming in for the last four or five months? If we consider even those elections, when we really only have to do those emergency jobs, then you know you're actually here to clean up the drawers. Why? Because we know how such a responsible work of the Minister will take place. And that's why it's also those 90 days at the beginning of the term when you don't criticize the government, that's when you get to know each other. That is why we also specifically asked you about matters, about specific matters, also because Prime Minister Rob said that you would take your full positions and work on the first day. It was perfectly normal and logical to ask you then. And I have asked you very many specific questions, if this were to be at the beginning of the mandate, I would like more about the programmes, about the plans. Since I know the coalition contract and what it says in there, I can only find out that of course you've been "shooting" on your own, some things you've continued, and a lot of things you've been "shooting" on your own. We asked you specific questions. First, I will touch Mr. Lakhovnik because he has already responded to me. I specifically asked you two or three things, namely, Elan, which is not a small thing, for example, I don't know, selling kegs in a kiosk in Upper Congo, but Elan with about eight billion government money coming out of the budget through the SRD. I asked you what you think about this and how you will strive to resolve this difficult matter. That was a question, your opinion I was wondering what you were thinking about. I didn't ask you about a small project or that I didn't ask you what you were going to do, say, with Mycycle's problem when it was money for cash aid, but it all went "morro". You don't have to answer that, because you won't know, but I asked you about a case that is also clear to people, citizens, quite familiar. Well, that's what I wanted. Then in terms of privatisation, injury. I told you, I explained that there was more than 80 billion damage in the privatisation process. This was clearly identified by the Agency, it sent all this documentation, and then the state's attorney came forward, and this was then sent forward to prosecute those who were working unlawfully, and I also asked you how you're going to run things. It's not a small thing, it's a familiar thing, especially for those you say you've been dealing with privatisations, securities and the like. It's not a marginal thing, it's two of the best-known things, and if we even consider that SIB bank any other cases, it's a billion-dollar thing. So we did not get these answers, at least not in such a way as to get your position, how you will act or protect the public interest, public finances, whether you have this belief, this consciousness, this will, and unfortunately the answers were not given. For Dr. Pauli, I think I've asked at least eight questions. I also asked you in this context because you are now in office and the Prime Minister said - you take a full hold. Since he said that, I asked you again specific questions that I wanted answers to, what solutions or what your position is. When it comes to accessing Slovenia to the open sea, I expected your expert explanation, as well as your position on this Slovenian issue. It is the same with Slovenian railways in Istria. One attitude, belonging to Slovenia and, on the other hand, professional judgement. But I'm afraid you have to answer these specific questions because you're accepted in the middle of a mandate. I will not ask you about the strategy or the political objectives in the next term, because this is irrelevant to you because it does not matter to you. From the point of view of the meeting of the Minister. It may matter to you how you imagine, but in this function at all. That's it. I have no doubt in your knowledge of some areas, I'm skeptical of some of your views. However, there were a number of questions raised where you did not comment. You left, you just skipped that explanation, we'll analyze it from different sides and so on. Of course, that's the nicest thing to say. Like the former president of the country or the current president of the country, we will learn a little bit and then we will respond. There's no such thing. The privatisation of the railways. Here I also asked you for a position, not a professional question, whether that program is okay or not, because you might have read it, maybe not, and all the while. We've criticized the privatisation program. It is difficult to drive an ambulance if the one planning the rescue plans a steady decline in freight and passenger transport. If you're doing recovery on these movements, then you'll never catch things, because you'll always be doing recovery for increasing fixed costs. The answers were, so where your position was expected, there was no position, but some of us were missing, and there were several arguments that, if you had a problem, you would point out how you were going to solve it. These are not peripheral things, the privatisation of Slovenian railways. That was also a referendum question. Here is not only the 5 billion that the government is supposed to give now as a pre-election gift, but also the next 50 billion. As you know, these passageways - the unprotected are extremely large, causing about 50 casualties per year in Slovenia, which is a disaster. The previous minister said that with a positive referendum or rejection of the referendum, we would save 150 billion tolars to develop railways. But when we look at the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways now, there is no talk of those 150 billion, there are 50 billion that the taxpayers will have to give. These things do not go together, and we expose you because you represent the continuity of this government because the Minister has put you in such a position. Then you should think about what you're getting yourself into, because you can be an expert, but in this position you've given in to these waters. It's no different. They say we'd stop here because of the rest of us. [[...]] Of course, the Minister of Agriculture should ask something else, but others will.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Look. We are now eight hours and 19 minutes in the debate on the appointment of new ministers or ministers. The arguments were more than presented. There's a "hearings" behind us. I would call for understanding, as far as possible and not offensive to the assembly, to try to limit the discussions by not delaying them until midnight, so that they can decide within a reasonable time on the new composition of the Slovenian government. There are many other colleagues and colleagues who have been reported, more than 30. We still have the agenda items to be carried out in order for the State Assembly to work normally this week. So kindly please, we all have the same rights, both the first speaker and the last, if it is possible to shorten any debate and limit it to the essential message we want to give. Comrade Kelemin has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidate, candidates. Right now, my colleague suggested that I be brief, short for half an hour. I hope it won't take so long, but on the one hand, Mr President, the big question is why this is taking so long right now. It is also possible that because members of the coalition would also like to commend the candidates and the government and their work, etc., then the belts of the coalition drags things along. If only the opposition representatives could tell their opinions, I don't think it would take that long. Look. I like this debate today, and I have to say that Members of the coalition are having a relatively large debate and debate as much as possible, so much more for me, at least so I think, because when they have a lot of debate, I think they are also exposing what needs to be discussed and what our voters have recently, I hope they know how to appreciate what is fair and what is unfair and what is unfair and what is not fair and what is true and what is not. In short, my assessment in general is that it is possible to appoint one Deputy Minister, but everything else that happened at that time in the exchange of this power or the proposal of new ministers should not have occurred in a normal country, according to my assessment. Minister Petrinovo, now I will assess, according to my assessment, because I have worked on the Committee on the Economy and, as far as I know the economy, on its bad work to reward with a diplomatic post abroad, I think it is unnecessary and these two, three months could complete this mandate, because the damage could not be more done than it already has. I think such a resolution was unjustifiable. But throwing a human client out of the government is completely incomprehensible and unnecessary. Otherwise, I like that, because such an organization and such a composition should have been from the beginning. Because this is the only painting in this Slovenia that is fair and fair. All of you, who are now in the opposition, are representatives of one man's so-called or so-called continuity. And perhaps some candidates today too, and this is the continuity of Mr Milan Kučan. And it's right to know who's where. And that's how it's supposed to stay that way in the future. My assessment is that, in fact, these new ministers would not need to be able to do any more terrible damage even at the end of these two months. But it is certainly a question, but it is also a question, because you always mention this, whether it was a national public party or if you have acted in a state-of-the-art way, in a coalition that you've just driven out. My assessment is that only the public party acted in a state-of-the-art way because she was defending some position towards the last one she decided to take. I think that even for the benefit of Slovenia, and not to the detriment of Slovenia, she was defending certain positions. So you unfairly threw them out, which is also because it shows a clear picture. Let's just leave it at that. The candidates are here anyway. I may be, even though the gentleman earlier said we're getting together for the only candidate, maybe it's not the most beautiful, but I'm going to start with her. I can't get past her statement she made on TV somewhere, if I remember right, when she said she was running first of all for her reputation back to the judiciary. I wonder how, in what way, because, in fact, I wonder whether the reputation of the court or of the judiciary is really on the dog, as the candidate lady has thereby identified it. I am firmly convinced that there are many, many good judges in court, good honest people who also work honestly. However, there is a small group of political judges who are drawn from the Continuity and who are actually "puffing" the whole system, not only in the judiciary, but also the entire political system in this country. And I have a feeling that there may also be a candidate in this segment of these political people who will continue this continuity. And I wonder, so it would only take a little bit of common energy, a little bit of common power, and eliminate those, in some way, that are really bad people that are actually corrupting all this image in this judicial system, and the system would be, I'm sure, ideal. What are we doing now? Look what we're doing! In order to eliminate all these huge backlogs in the judicial system, we thought of - I don't know who's already thought of it - the Hercules program. And the National Assembly, when adopting the last budget, has allocated hundreds of millions of additional money to remedy backlogs in the courts to pay the judge with additional money, is paying extra money to remedy backlogs. You can imagine, respectable people, what this means, how we save backlogs in the judicial system! Let me put it this way: work at any institute, wherever it appears, should be done to the end. That's my thesis. This is the thesis of an honest worker, an honest officer, wherever he is. Wherever you are, you have to do your job properly to the end. Take an example of what contracts some employees have in some companies. I'll tell you what the contract says. The contract states that, while working hours are 40 hours, if necessary, more than 40 hours must be worked, including on Saturdays and Sundays, without any additional payment. That's what some contracts say. If someone has to work within 40 hours, and every day maybe 12 hours, and on Saturdays and Sundays, he has to work as long as he does his job at the company's office. Doesn't that apply in court? And nowhere else is that true? Even in Parliament, for example, we need to implement a programme now under the new rules of procedure, even by midnight, by morning, however necessary, the programme. Does anyone ask us whether we have been further stimulated to do so? The work put forward by the President of the National Assembly and Colleges and all political parties must be done. And that's our problem now, whether we do it in eight hours or 24 hours. It's not a problem. We have to do it. But have we received in the budget additional resources to do more work than we have to do, for example, when we have to adopt so much European legislation and harmonisation to do lately and there is still a whole range of other burdens on the National Assembly? Did we request any additional payment? However, additional funds must be provided in the Court of Justice. I'd like to know, dear candidate, how you're going to comment and resolve the tests. My assessment is that we should work in court for the money that is paid, and I think that they are fairly paid, to do the amount of work they have at their disposal, within a reasonable time and a reasonable time, and also properly and honestly. This is, of course, another story, correct and fair. Well, now I'm going to say one case, and I'm just wondering how you're going to react to that, let's say how you're going to solve it. Now you will have a certain function because you will certainly be chosen. Let's say the example of Shuštar. When this case began, I immediately told the media, because I did not have the opportunity, and I am likely, this affair will end in the end so that, finally, those who are guilty will sue the country and also sue all the costs for back and no one will be completely to blame, even to prove to the world public that there is no corruption in Slovenia. And for this price is the judiciary, and this politicized judiciary, ready to make such decisions and such judgments, only to prove to the world that there is no corruption in Slovenia. But I tell you, Madam Candidate, and I know these cases and also the individual people in this affair who have slipped out of this process just as easily and will not answer completely, but many of them are involved, much more than were convicted. I've been sending some information myself, but I didn't want to appear to have it, and I have it, and I still have it today, and I might be obliged to clear things up, but I can't because of certain colleagues, because they're asking me not to do it, because they'll know where the resources come from. But there's a lot more involved. And finally, no one gets convicted. Remember well, the state, and the taxpayers will pay the price for all this disgrace. Then look at the case, one more thing I have to say is how law is respected in our country, and above all in the field of justice. One example of the illegal construction of a mobile phone transmitter. The operator remembered and is on an unspoiled area at the top of a hill planted with a vineyard, where a tourist road passed through a beautiful landscape and at the top of this hill he placed 30, 40 meters high, and this illegally, mobile phone transmitter. I took this case personally, and I filed a complaint with the inspector. Of course, the Inspector took action and issued an immediate decision that the illegally installed facility must be demolished within 60 days, in accordance with the building law. Of course, that didn't happen after 60 days. I was immediately grappling with the inspector, and he said, "I've done my part, I've done everything, I can't do anything else, or I'll re-agree and demand that the illegally built facility collapse." He also said that he had submitted a proposal to the judge for offences for the offence or for the offence committed. And here are the very high penalties, look at the building law, right now we're going to consider the changes again, how high-risk the penalties are, including 10 million and 20 million, and so on for illegal construction. And the building needs to be demolished. And what happened? Operator didn't break the facility. After six months of illegal construction, the Ministry of Environment and Space issued a building permit for this facility. And today, if you want, I'll take you to this facility, and you'll see if it's not a usurpation of space, if it's not a crime over the landscape. And what's the worst thing about this is, of course, this is about the new candidate now. Then I checked with the criminal judge, and the inspector who filed the application should, in accordance with the law at least every next day, when the facility was not broken, first punish ten times of the offender, since ten punishments can be imposed, another ten times a sentence should be imposed, ten times a day should be punished specifically for 10 penalties. In addition, an illegally constructed facility should be allowed to pay for costs incurred by a third party or by another person, as set out in the law, and for the costs incurred by the developer of an illegally constructed facility. And the judge for the offences, when I checked that the sentence had been passed and what punishment had been handed down, said that they had a case in their files, but that they had not yet dealt with it. The statute of limitations is two years. Remember that well! It's been more than a year, a few months, and it's all gonna be quiet. The facility is illegally built, and no one is punished. It's a legal state! Now I'm wondering if some poor guy in the hills would put up a little piece without a building permit, and the next day, the Minister of Digger would come and break it. I would like to know if, when the Minister takes up the case and clears up her case with the judge for offences, because she is also probably within your jurisdiction, Ormož has demanded that they actually punish the offender who illegally built the facility and that all the penalties for the misdemeanours that he did not pay are actually charged to him by the decision of the judge for the offences. You see, this is the country of law we live in! That's enough of that. Just enough to tell you that the system doesn't work, and my firm conviction is that it won't work again. But I have a confession to make. But if perhaps a respected candidate thinks that the reputation of the court will return in some way, I say that maybe I can do it with my performance, I'll say a little ugly, with populism. I must admit that she is a very good speaker, that she can perform very well in front of the media, and that she might be able to regain the reputation of the court. However, I firmly believe that there is no longer enough populism for today's people, because they have become smart, educated, they want to have actions, they want to have measures, they want to have a legal state, not a legal state, not a legal state, to the extent that you've set it up, but just as it's actually written in laws. I hope one of these happens. As far as the other candidates are concerned, there is no point in arguing that I will not really spend half an hour. I would only mention that I hope that the candidate for the Minister of Transport knows that it is also possible to come to Parliament with a proposal to amend the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways. I think that this programme should also come or come to Parliament. If I had my eyes on this, on some bad solutions in this marriage, I think I could come. One of these things is, as I said at the hearing, too high, according to my estimate, tolls on our highways. I think that our citizens did not deserve to pay such high tolls, and only some, not all. I say that three quarters are not paid by tolls, while the rest are paid by extremely high tolls, comparable to, or even higher than in European countries. I agree that the electronic card system or electronic toll collection will be implemented, but I say that the tolls will then be in the system of payment decency or the development of our country as such, or under the criteria of gross domestic product or under the criteria of average salary to the employee in the country towards other Western countries. I am firmly convinced that if we take these criteria, the tolls will have to be three times lower compared to our salaries in Slovenia than in other European countries. That's my belief. However, the candidate says that we must respect the European Community documents. You always just rape us with these documents and only with their requirements and directives, etc. I'm saying that's not true. While we must take certain things into account, it does not say anywhere that we must have, if we already have to pay the tolls, that we must have higher than in some other European countries. I said that our people are not guilty if they have to, say, go to work in Ljubljana and drive on highways. But why is it that centralisation has caused us to have no jobs in the area outside, there are no jobs on the periphery. Most jobs are in Ljubljana. For this reason, the daily migration of the population is extremely large, which must also be 100 kilometres and more to Ljubljana to work. And that's the policy you're running on the other side. First, of course, it would be necessary to introduce decentralisation, approximately equal living conditions throughout the entire territory of Slovenia, allow for equal conditions for all residents, and then allow tolls. If someone's driving for a luxury, let's drive. That's his problem. But if a person has to drive because of his existence, because of his survival, then I think it's another issue that needs to be dealt with a little differently. However, there would be much to be said about any other minister, a candidate for a minister, but I think there will be many opportunities, there must be little solidarity with others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Good evening to the candidates and candidates who have just left our premises. I'll be brief because I think there's been a lot of talk. I've been thinking about one thing over and over again, and I think it's going to be a good idea that the candidate, Mrs Cerarjeva, will go to the analies of this Parliament as the first to experience an interpretation before she was appointed Minister. Because today she was actually intertwined, she was not uninterviewed, she did not actually have the opportunity to answer how she would post her job in the rest of the months of her term at the Ministry, but she was intertwined, and not even mirrored, if you remember that qualification, that in the previous regime, when she was doing her job, that was in that bad regime and that is not to be relied on. However, I think it would be necessary to congratulate Prime Minister Rope, who was able to propose in a very, very short time to Parliament the appointment of a candidate and candidates for a minister after two of all the known reasons have left the post of Minister and when three of us ministers of the People's Party, whom no one has said today during the debate that they were weak, left our species and had to fill these gaps. I've been to some shows. I think they were all very good. However, since I am a long-standing member of the Infrastructure Committee, I should particularly like to thank and, of course, I also expect that the promises made by Dr. Pavlih will be a candidate for the Minister of Transport, in particular with regard to the transport policy strategy as one of those documents that Slovenia has been waiting for and needs for a long time because they had a gado on their tables. We know that it has also been prepared by the government so far to coordinate and expect, Mr Minister, that you will bring it to Parliament very quickly. Your idea of the balanced development of all transport sectors and the transport of related industries is one that we probably also missed and may have resulted in some mistakes mainly in the field of rail transport and perhaps also severe blood in relation to the fifth transport corridor and so on. All of this would not have happened if we had a transport policy and a vision clearly defined. Some of you who were talking about the idea that the proposed candidate and the candidates were talking about some illusions. Of course, they could, but they all stressed, also the Transport Minister, that they would primarily follow the continuity of the current government and, of course, lead the government's carriage to the end of the mandate, which is, of course, their primary objective and mission. And that's what we all expect. Of course, we also expect that they will be given the opportunity to deal seriously with the entire mandate in the future. I'm sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u131	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u132	Thank you, President. First of all, two words on the thesis that I have seen in some of the debates at the end of the Chamber, that a few months before the end of the term, it is irrational to place new ministers and that the State secretaries, or even more early elections, should be sufficient. I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues at the end that when you were offered an opportunity, you grabbed it with all four, not to appoint five ministers, but to appoint a whole government, not for a few months, but even less, and for a small majority, so you didn't even want to sneeze to take those few months through and take 100 days of trial. Today you're saying it makes no sense when we reconstruct a normal government operation with five ministers. Most who are invited to perform this reconstruction in the spirit of continuity, but with new energy and certainly with a greater professional qualification, which comes to them just before the entry into the European Union, are quite right, I assure you, solid. She has several more votes than yours at the time and is determined to carry out the tasks entrusted to her. You're talking about 600 million or more as much as it's supposed to cost. Of course, your first concern for savings, a few weeks ago, you burned 600 million by the way and without a bug. And I don't know, I'm not taught that your then ministers would deny themselves the rights and money they owned from the Ministry in a few months when you're talking about this concern of course after rationalisation. Otherwise, I personally think a team reconstruction operation is much closer than a personal appointment. If we borrow a recent hockey championship, our returnees to the first world elite can tell us that in the end, when there is less and less time, it is worth serving flying trades. We have a good five today that will lead us to the end of the game and that will be successful. I'd add here when you're moaning at the fact that we have a package, you know, if we were to individually identify ourselves with candidates and candidates, maybe we'd back someone up. I haven't heard from your mouth before today who you're supposed to be supporting. Of course, you have even a range of critics, questions and signs of mistrust. I'm not going to talk about all the candidates, I'm going to talk about Dr. Pavli, for whom I've had the honor of listening to him at the hearing on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Already in the introductory debates, someone has pointed out to him, and I will not mention the name that I would not prolong the debate, that somehow there is a lack of patriotism, that there is little interest because he has stated in relation to the direct exit into the international waters of the Adriatic things just as they stand and which are legally sound, nothing less than the actual situation. He said very frankly at the time, although it is not in his domain, that he will not deal with these matters, in the Foreign Minister's domain, that territorial access to the high seas is indisputably our right, based on the fundamental constitutional charter on independence and independence and coastal state status. The right, therefore, which is indisputable, which must be materialised, which must be drawn with the coordinates, must be specified, of course, by an agreement with Croatia. And he showed the optimal solution in the Drnovšek-Račan deal. If that were not the case and the above access would be "de jure" and "de facto" already guaranteed and internationally recognised, why would eight years of negotiations and this agreement go on? Unfortunately, this agreement has only been initialled, not signed, even less ratified, but is the exercise of this right. He's already explained the maritime code himself. In doing so, I would simply add that the maritime code was processed, rotated, pushed together, and accepted almost unanimously. And no one then warned that there would be some shortcomings in this title. Nobody. You only moved when some new political circumstances arose, and that is to say that when political motives were behind it, we were amending it, not legal motives. Because of your entry into NATO, you've discovered that we're supposed to eliminate that emergency that prevented the arrival of nuclear ships. It was a political moment. When Croatia intervened with the unilateral declaration of the eco-fishing zone, it was a new political moment, and you discovered at that time that it would be good for us to introduce this right into the maritime code, which was given to us directly from the international conventions. So this provision that we have entered only benefits from having some greater bargaining power in the event of arbitration. You know that I advocate that until this solution, because we have to set a limit, I say, and I am firmly convinced that before we enter the Schengen area, we must have a marked boundary at sea for just two years, and unfortunately things are moving too little. If Dr. Pauliha says the sea is wet, we cannot ask him to repent and say that this is not the case. The sea is wet, there's no other explanation, unless we dry it, then the sea is gone. Look, I'm not going to - we've read this in writing - talk about his references. But if you believe me, here I have been in the National Assembly for the second time, I have also been a mandate in the First Constitutional Republic Assembly, and I have always been on these Infrastructure and Transport Committees, etc., and I have participated in the hearings of many candidates for the Minister of Transport. What I have heard at the last "hearing" is, of course, the far best presentation that gives all the guarantees that this minister will be, I am sure, will do this work of great quality, which is very important at this last stage before joining the EU and at the end of our term of office. That is why, today and even now, to the new five ministers or to the four ministers and ministers - I have no doubt that we will support them - and to the Prime Minister who has proposed them, I want a successful job, and I know in terms of the condition that they have today and will gather them, we will often see them at our night meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Although many are still reported to the end, let me just say, when the final debater is exhausted, we will move immediately to making a decision so that there are no misunderstandings. Now he has the word of his colleague Mamić, his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u134	Thank you, for your word. I'll make sure I'm as short as possible, because if I spoke four or five hours ago, I'd be talking a lot more, because more or less of it is said before me, I'll cut it short. I'll tell you what no one's ever said before. Four years ago, we elected a new government. From that new government until now, there are only four ministers left, if I say so myself, innocent. The replacements, if I count, seven, three had interpellations, one minister was not elected at the time, was subsequently, so she has not been replaced, but four years are only four ministers in the Continuity, even the Prime Minister has been replaced. I don't know if it's any kind of government that looks like her. It makes me think I just don't have anyone to trust in my word, even if it's the Prime Minister himself, if he's the President of the Republic or I don't know who. If we look at this, when they've praised the government so much four years ago, it's great that it's the experts themselves, that it's the perspective of our policy and so on, and we're seeing such a fluctuation, I don't know. I'd say uneducated, yes, because you're just playing, you've got a circus here. Parliament itself is in the form of a circus, and so has been talked about. Maybe I could say a few words about the area I'm covering, that's infrastructure. I was listening, normally, and Mr Pauli was immediately commended by certain members of the government coalition, in his opening speech - because the speech was fine, visual and so on, idealistic even, some said. But it was enough that he spoke for 10, 15 minutes to convince all those people that he was a real expert. I may not doubt it, but to convince you in 10 minutes that he'll be a good minister, that's what I think is really, sorry, funny. However, he answered the questions we asked him, but he did not answer certain questions. He just said, maybe he didn't understand the question, I don't know, but the answers were over. And if I touch that package now, which was already obvious, who you'd support, you didn't say. I only know if there would be a separate vote, who would not get a single vote from the opposition - this is Mrs Cerarjev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable candidates and lady candidate, colleagues and colleagues! I also think today's debate is quite interesting. Nevertheless, I think that we could go to a normal country to stop now, and tomorrow, in normal situations, we would continue this debate, which is of great interest and great interest to viewers in front of television sets. However, you have agreed on a method of fatigue, to more violently prevent an exchange of views, even though today you have failed to fully resort to the new rules of procedure, which prevents this. In this interesting debate, we have actually heard a lot of interesting things, not only the candidate's thanks, that he had the best presentation, but that Mr Juri has saved him now - some coastal alliance, nice to say where he came from - but it has also been seen from this simplicity that the candidate should not use names because the replicas are not desirable. He said that Mr. Kacin told him, God forbid you use names, because then there will be replicas and you can get involved. And if I use one very interesting, actually funny thing, that Mr Lavrinc said that Thomas Moore was a utopian socialist who could explain some of the things I think this coalition would need some kind of moral size of Thomas Moore. [[...]] And yet the values that Thomas More strictly stood for are not your values, unfortunately. And you're probably going to have to run to some utopias, actually offering utopias to Slovenian people. Last but not least, the second part of the proposal by the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, was presented and offered on a grand scale. Mr Rob was, we read, a well-nourished child in the family and knows that messages related to the cross are being sent on a big Friday. In fact, he was probably so honest that he communicated to Slovenia the continuation of one or the beginning of the Crusade also through the fact that it was in such a symbolic way and on such a symbolic day that he sent this news. In this proposal, we know that in the first part of the vacant seats, the Prime Minister has invited many candidates to participate and not everyone has listened to him, so he has decided as he has decided. I was at this hearing, a presentation by Dr. Mate Lahovnik's candidate, which we have seen on television in recent years with interesting comments. We all knew that this was a very young, very learned, very ambitious candidate. In fact, this has also proved to be appropriate for years to be a little naive in relation to the Prime Minister. He had his presentation in two parts. The analysis of the situation there has been very frank and I can also quote that in some areas Slovenia is lagging behind those transition countries that we were ahead of when we were singled out for a few light years. For example, on exports of technology-intensive products, we are lagging behind for the Czech Republic and I do not know which countries. He gave an exact percentage of how we are lagging behind, then said that we are lagging behind in the involvement of employees in education mainly in the category between 30 and 39 years. This is the most active period of people, Mr candidate is just entering this age period. And here Slovenia is far behind. This, of course, reflects on technological lagging behind. We are also lagging behind in indicators showing the use of knowledge for economic competitiveness and obviously the problem is the link between the research and economic sphere and so on. But after we commended him for openly admitting it, he gave up those statements. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Well, it's also a trait. [[...]] In the second part, he said quite frankly that for a few months there was no point in doing the program because it had some perspectives. And based on the fact that he is in public position as an expert on acquisitions, we asked him the most about acquisitions. About BTC acquisitions, about Elan, ownership, awards, system technology acquisitions. Mr Prime Minister, after the acquisition of systemic techniques by Viator-Vector for 83% of the share of 450 million during the time of pickles, was carried out there at the beginning of August, which was estimated by journalists and everyone to be a shamefully low price in the time of pickles when they are unsupervised. I warned the Prime Minister then that he should cancel this sale, this takeover. Three months later, two months later, when journalists were looking forward to becoming an affair, the Prime Minister ordered a special, I don't know how he expressed himself, ordered a review, as with every other thing, as with Orion, he ordered a review here. And it's been four months, five months, probably already running, no spirit, no hearing about checking what she's shown. These same owners, of course, sold 40 or what percentage of much more money the country received after two months and then resold it. When we asked the takeover expert what his personal opinion was on this takeover, what he had discussed with the Prime Minister, it turned out that they had not discussed the acquisitions with the Prime Minister. They did not talk about this most crucial area of its operation, which is also the most crucial thing for Slovenian voters, Slovenian taxpayers, to have confidence in the power to finally make one order in this area in order to make it better. They're waiting for the hardware store. I don't know what else is waiting. No, the candidate obviously didn't talk to the Prime Minister about this. And he wasn't talking about other things, obviously, that's where it turned out. Of course, Officer Finance's commentator has taken over, as I have noted, that he has been diplomatically avoiding specific issues, which would be a perfect feature for the Foreign Minister. However, we are now setting up an economic minister. And here's to specific questions, good if it's answered specifically. But even though we have found out there that the candidates for economic affairs did not speak with the Prime Minister, we read in the Green Spot Saturday, in the annex to the Journal, when Mr Rop says, Mr Lahovnik and I agreed on a real programme, a programme for this government and for the next government, for a programme that will allow Slovenia to move forward. Mr Lakhovnik will show his ability with confidence and so on. And he's already put it on one term. Mr Rob doesn't count on the voice of the people, it doesn't matter at all, he's already putting the mandate forward for the next period and so on. And now, Mr. Candidate, I'm asking who's not telling the truth here. Obviously there was no or you didn't know how to present it at the hearing because you didn't know what to say to the Prime Minister, even though we were very specifically asking you and the press, the serious commentators found this to be a diversion. As a result, I do not think that viewers, citizens, taxpayers can be transported thirsty through water. Someone has to say whether the word was even spoken about a serious economic programme. Based on the hearing, I'm sorry, it didn't look that way. There were diplomatic phrases, diplomatic evasiveness and so on. I know that the candidate has a lot of theoretical knowledge, and if I were to talk to the Prime Minister, I would speak first of all about this area, because this is also one of the biggest problems of the present Slovenia. On the "hearing" we learned very narrowly what it was like to sell SIB shares that he said he inherited. What internal information he had at the time of the sale of the SIB. In an article in Finance, he wrote that he intended to file a criminal complaint first because he saw that those who baranted had internal information, which was a classic crime, but then he saw that it would tangate the city's authority and would have a political approach, so he withdrew from it because the city's authorities had done the right thing. That's all in the articles I have here. Today, it is known that the city authorities have been covering up this matter, manipulating it in every way possible. However, see, these cases, ownership, system techniques, ironworks, not SIBs, were apparently not serious enough at the time for a candidate for the justice minister. However, the serious issue was, as we have heard today, 8 million for the diplomatic academy, potential, of course. And here we have seen that, in fact, the Prime Minister did not take the candidates seriously or were actually recruited from another power centre, which is somewhat underestimating to candidates. For this reason, I am not surprised that the candidate, who, in my opinion, I have heard a very good defense at the hearing years ago, Mrs Vojka Ravbar, refused to participate in such authority. She has already been declared Minister, but she has refused to do so because she has seen the approach in this decaying government, the situation after the collapse of the coalition, what those political objectives are, how superficially, how vaguely everything is being done in this power. As a result, some other candidates do not surprise me about the primary objectives of this authority. I've already mentioned on the committee that it's certainly capable people. And I think that some of the nominations have also been a reward for a good job, especially since this system of Slovenian ownership has not actually been brought before a court, no complaints that this has been done in the way that everything is in the best order in Slovenia and so on. Here I would mention, as Mario Puzo says in his book Boter, when he begins with Balsac's belief that there is no great wealth without thievery. That's a quote. And it seems that in Slovenia the wealth was created by a miracle. In Slovenia there is no thief, no counterfeiter, no cheater, no thief, no stockbroker or other kind of criminal. It was owned by us in the most beautiful order and I believe that it takes rewards. The reallocation of former social assets, such as directing budgetary public money into the hands and pockets or into the accounts of today's rich people, was a priority objective of the centre of political power. And this program worked out perfectly. Now all you have to do is wait for all things to get old, so you need to have an expert. Older ones, such as economic crime, may be cut short. And because of this, in fact, when I move on to a candidate for a justice minister, I have to actually listen to Mr Jez, who, in my opinion, when I am following him for a long time, is a highly educated, prominent journalist. However, to his writing, we can probably say that the candidate lady will say that he is inconceivable because he mentioned that he can do it in the motherly way, and Mr Lavrinc says how, in the legal beauty of the kindergarten to say that, to seduce the matter that it does not look like that. These are the abilities that Robb's government needs. This maternal style must certainly be respected, and the candidate lady said that it was a flat-rate assessment that the prosecution had not done enough. But in this maternal way, she explained well, five fines for 30 years. Yeah, for blood-delicacies, where they get the perp when he killed three people, of course, it was done in spite of good lawyers. On this point, it should be asked what kind of country we are to have such horrors, that the quantity in this country is significantly greater than the comparable countries, some. The ones we're going in to. I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Peace. There's no controversy in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u138	However, there have been no cases in the area of economic crime. One is illegal, and the other was here, not only in the prosecution, but also in the police, a conscious policy that there are no qualified people to prosecute. But if anyone's been set up, he put things, as we saw today, in drawers, in closets. And here Mr. Jez says the closets. Read it, read it! I think he wrote a good comment about the case. I don't want to comment on it myself, but there's a lot of it, and for such assessments, I think it's going to get a glimpse of the lack of visibility. And that observation about the lack of visibility of Minister Ruple, where he put himself, in principle, on a matter, because he warned the ruling elite of some values, of some things that should be respected, he resented. However, I do not know, so far Mr Rupel has been regarded as a highly regarded intellectual of "par exellation" practically. And this is actually an insult to the government, because then the whole government is very unexamined; so far, Mr Rupel was considered to be at the top after seeing it. Then the whole government is extremely unsightly. I don't know if this evaluation is gonna work, so just admit that you don't have enough people in the government. I also cannot agree with the description of how Ranc's case was handled in the prosecution. I was also dealing directly with this at the time because I was chairman of the Vice-Holmec Commission. And there, after what the civil justice court has now ruled, it was clear that listening to a journalist was illegal and illegal was also the order issued by the investigating judge subsequently, since there was no legal basis for the supervision of the journalist. And it's not true, it can't be claimed that nothing has been done to prevent this matter. Mrs Barbra Brezigar wanted to press charges because, for example, it was illegal for a journalist to be heard without an order. You, Madam Candidate, said you asked for this only to go to college. Why did he have to go to college in this case, and on other matters, the prosecutions were independent? You have that right. And Mrs Barbara Brezigar resigned from the principle, because this was a precedent for preventing the complaint. And here was a dangerous message sent at the time. As a result, journalists today have much more fear, and they are much more fearful. The Friday issue would also develop differently if it were then in accordance with the law. It was handed over to Mr Fischer, who kept the documentation for eight months after that and delayed it in the case of Vič-Holmec, in which Mr Kos was performing, and if I received it in time, I can argue that he could then see from that documentation how Mr Ranz was being eavesdropped. However, at that time, with the delay that Mrs candidate supported by Mr Goraza Fischer, it was not possible for me to look at this documentation. And things have gone a lot differently than without pressure, without influence, without delay, and I think that today the press could feel more free, but we know that they admit that they are under pressure only by censorship and nothing else. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. President! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Peace in the hall. Don't bother the speaker. Please. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u140	Now, the government is called or perfected in some other departments. I would have Mr Pavlich, otherwise he is not here, but I cannot be satisfied with the interpretations concerning the maritime law. He did not make it clear whether he was involved in these experiments, but it was written in the media. And the opinion in the introduction to this has already done great damage in Slovenia and has pushed it into an extremely bad situation across from Italy. These cases opened up against Croatia, with the Croatian declaration of a fishing zone or economic zone, when Slovenia had no arguments, because the code stated that Slovenia was a territorially disadvantaged country. The legal opinion drawn up did not take into account the London Agreement, which granted Slovenia the territory together with the relevant sea and access to international waters. [[Feed adverts: Memorandum.]] Memorandum - thank you, London Memorandum. For this to be overlooked, such an important legal area or solution, of course, Slovenia has been causing great damage, which will be repeated, because this argument will be borne by Croats every day, and here we are in a very difficult situation. In fact, Mr Prime Minister should take a full look at these matters and, in fact, I am aware of how the government was at the time of the closed meeting, the foreign ministry, that we have written such things in the law, and today some things - if the media are mentioned - are rewarded. Mr Prime Minister, I really do not know what assistance you have received from these candidates, have an extremely strong political connotation, an extremely clear direction which structures in Slovenia must be defended against every persecution, against every issue. I don't think this is good for Slovenia at the moment we're a few months before the elections. This is, in fact, an extremely vague policy of the Prime Minister and because, in fact, I cannot, in this way, cover up certain things from the Slovenian public or that such a policy is governed by Slovenia, I cannot support such a list, even though I think that there are people among the candidates or some who would be worthy of my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Comrade Podobnik is now on my schedule, but the debate is cancelled. My friend Wolf, you too? You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u142	No, no, I can promise to be shorter than my colleague Jerovšek and Kelemina, who kept his agreement. Too bad when he mentioned that he was going to shorten the debate for half an hour, it was really shorter. Of course, much has been said today - even more. Among other things, it has been clear that political names have been proposed by the Prime Minister, and this has now been highlighted in particular in the conclusion. I don't understand how this can even be obvious if we're talking about appointing ministers when we're talking about government. Under this criterion, no one in this Chamber, including the leader of the opposition, Mr Janš, can be Minister. This cannot be obvious by nature, and if this were the case, then they would really be a mess in the countries of parliamentary democracy. Of course, I would like to ask you, which of these names they have run for office, could have claimed to be politicians 14 days ago. All these persons are primarily experts who are of course publicly recognised and publicly known. It is undeniable that nominations for the minister and ministers received this, as noted by colleague Jerovšek, political connotation. Kacin's tree said that since the moment they gave their consent, they've been politically contaminated. This is understandable because it is about future members and members of the government, and the government is a political body. I am personally more pleased with the fact that she is a candidate and that the candidates had enough courage and were willing to place the burden of this political contamination on their shoulders and, I believe, in the interests of Slovenia. I would be pleased, however, if this burden were to be imposed 500 - in fact, I apologize, the latest figure of 600 experts - announced by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party as possible members of the shadow government. I'm afraid they haven't been able to do this before. And maybe it's because he finds Diarey in today's Youth when the question of why you set up a government in the shadows says, "In the light, someone would scare us." Maybe. I would then like to touch on the readings concerning, above all, the candidate for Justice Minister, Mrs Zdenko Cerar. The red thread of all readings is that in some specific cases it has decided politically and not professionally, in accordance with the law. What a paradox! The paradox that none of the above mentioned and also completely clear by the candidate is ensured, according to her claim, that no cases that we have heard today - SIB Bank, Orion, Zbiljski Gaj, pika, pika, pika - were led by the candidate as the Attorney General, but by law by the competent state prosecutors. In all these specific cases, as I understand it, the Attorney-General merely explained the actions of the competent state prosecutors, because it was his duty and the law imposed on him and, on the other hand, he expected the public to do so. And the Attorney General is, and there is no way to challenge this, which is responsible for the general situation in the field of the prosecution, but by no means can and must not affect the specific decisions of the individual state prosecutor in a particular case, the law prohibits such involvement. It is important to stress that they are state prosecutors, and today this has been repeatedly said, in their work autonomous and independent - thank God. But what seems to me to be the most important thing in all these readings, and in some ways surprising to me, is the incredible duplicity of the political motivation of Mrs Zdenka Cerar. I'm asking, has Zdenka Cerar ever dropped any charges against any of the presidents of political parties? Has Zdenka Cerar ever prevented any of the presidents from being questioned by political parties on the force? Has Zdenka Cerar ever run on any of the client lists for the election to the National Assembly? And has Zdenka Cerar ever run for president of the country with the support of fully defined political parties? The answer is no. However, there is a state prosecutor in this country, who has been supported by the Slovenian Coalition and has always claimed to be a professional, non-politically competent person, who is not politically motivated, despite the fact that this prosecutor has already dropped a complaint against one of the political party presidents, has already prevented the hearing of the president of political parties with the police, has already run for office in the National Assembly elections, and has, last but not least, run for the President of the State. If it's not a duplicity, then please tell me what a duplicity is. Finally, allow me to explain why I will support the proposed candidate and candidate list. In the first place, because of the fact that it is no doubt about people who have proved themselves to be experts so far, from now on they are also becoming political people. In particular, I will support them because they have been brave and are six months before the elections, when a number of people in this country and in this policy and outside of it are thinking about who will win the elections and calculate what would be better for them, are willing to take on the responsibilities that the ministerial position and function requires, and will undoubtedly, in my opinion, contribute with their knowledge to the further successful work of this government and thus to the progress of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok is not in the hall, colleague Pukšič is also not, and colleague Willi Trofenik is absent. Does Comrade Bevk want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! This government or state of affairs that arose at the proposal of the Magi. To appoint a list of candidates for the five ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Ambassador Janez Janša called it unstable and abnormal. But the situation is really the other way around. The government coalition, composed of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, is functioning normally and stable. In order to give you a clear picture of when we are talking about an unstable, abnormal and unclear situation, we must return four years ago, and we must return to the year 2000. Because we have or, rather, because some of you have a very short historical memory, I'm going to give you some facts. On 16 March 2000, Slovenian People's Party champion Marjan Podobnik announced that no later than 15 April, all Slovenian People's Party ministers would withdraw from the government, which is half the government. The reason was announced by the merger of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Christian Democrats. In early April, President Drnovšek therefore proposed replacing the 10 Slovenian People's Party ministers and replacing them with eight candidates, tying the vote on the confidence. On 8 April 2000, Drnovšk was voted not to be trusted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 17 April 2000, the President of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed Dr Andrej Bajuk as the new government's term of office. The term of office for the composition of the government, or the President, became three votes in favour, 4 May 2000. Even with the creation of the list of ministers, Dr. Bajuk did not have a happy hand, as he was in no way able to reconcile the interests of the Social Democratic Party and the SLS SKD of the Slovenian People's Party. The government was elected only in a second attempt on 7 June 2000. If we sum up the whole period of searching for a new government from 16 March to 7 June 2000, almost three months have been spent. However, if we add up the time of the government of Dr. Andre Bajuk, who, as the new president, along with the whole new government, has only been teaching rule for eight months. This was also the case in this case with a software twist, a completely new situation that is usually brought by elections only under normal and stable conditions, but not by a splintered majority in the National Assembly. This time, however, the three Slovenian People's Party ministers leaving the government coalition and the replacement of two for the second function will be resolved within 14 days. From the proposal of mag. The robbery on April 5th and 9th, when he first proposed the replacement of two and then three other ministers, was very little time and we had Easter holidays during that time. What I can say, like the fact that the LDS government coalition, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS acted effectively and nationally, also thanks to our party and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Neither the interpretation nor the referendums nor the resignations of ministers are and will in no way solve any problems facing Slovenia before joining the European Union today. All taxpayers and the state budget have been literally abused by very expensive democratic instruments. The purpose of the initiators of the said political agenda was very clear, as I said at the time of the interpretation: a few months before the European and national elections, to destabilise the government's work and to prevent the normal work of the national assembly in adopting European legislation and other projects. It is our responsibility, the responsibility of the government coalition, which still has a convincing majority in the National Assembly, to act smoothly in the interests of the state and its citizens until the end of its term of office, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic cancels the debate. Does Comrade Kremjar want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President. I want a word because I think it's right for us to say some things. It feels like we're talking through each other. On the committees where we have listened to talks with the candidates for ministers and here today, there is something interesting that I must say, not joy -- that we are talking about everything else, except what these people are going to do in this government, why they are proposed, what their views are, what their orientations are, so that someone can argue with such things. No, we're looking for skeletons in closets, things from a 20-year past or more and so on. We're talking about something that we're not talking about here today and on the committees and we're not supposed to talk about. Anyone could argue, and it would be good for any candidate for a minister and ask him about his visions, his visions, what he would do, and, of course, to discuss that he did not agree. And that would be good and good. But it wasn't. I took part in three "hearings" and it wasn't there and it's not here today. I have to say, I'm not surprised anymore, because now we've been about half listening to this for three years. [[He's gonna wait for the president to stop, and then I'm gonna keep going.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u147	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u148	We listened to the "hearings" very good presentations, I participated on three, and I must say that I heard from my colleagues also on the other two, where I did not participate, that was similar, which is of course about getting people who are ready, capable and able to start working on these ministries right now. But that's not strange; these are people who have gone from university to other stories, these are people who know the areas, these are people who have worked with these areas, everyone in their own way, and of course they can start to work sovereignly in these areas tomorrow. And that's exactly what the government needs right now! And these people are going to do it, and they proved it in all the conversations we've had with them, and it's right that it is. It's not unusual for him to want to show how the government is in disarray, how the coalition is in disarray. Listen, things are very simple and simple. It's not a coalition, it's not a government, it's no big deal, it's not a crisis. The coalition, as reported in the paper, still has a comfortable enough majority, still, despite the exit of the SLS, has a comfortable enough majority. The government is carrying out - and we are doing this today - a completely normal exchange in the ministerial cabinet, which is due to two or three different causes. Three ministers left because of the coalition partner's departure and it is perfectly natural and normal to replace them and it is right and wise and wise to replace them with professional people and not with political - what we are doing today. If the crisis of governance and governance is that Dr. Potočnik is the European Commissioner, then let there be a crisis. If this exchange is a crisis story - I am not embroiling with my colleague Kelemino. So it is purely normal natural things, which, of course, are very decent and are also properly implemented. But, you know, this judge, in my judgment, this goes into that package where there is no particular thing - and now I am going a little bit to these indications to our candidates, who we were able to listen to, where we think that some things go differently than the Constitution provides for, and as is normal: yes, the Parliament should be the court, the Attorney General should have in view of all the lists of state prosecutors and give them instructions on how to do and so on and so on. This simply does not work; it is not done; it should not be and it would be obvious if it were true what is evident. I have a little experience to tell, but it's not that small, and it's not insignificant. With the candidate, Mrs Cerarjevo, I am working together with my colleague, Mr Zammernik, and with the other members of the Commission, the so-called Friday Commission, and I must say that, after the first complications that we have jointly resolved, the cooperation with the Attorney General's Office has been exemplary, I can say, and we have also said so in the Commission and also in this National Assembly. And it was Mrs Prosecutor-General that, of course, with certain movements, which were within the scope and the legislation that led the matter forward, just as it did in the case of Friday itself, that happened and happened. A small case, but I think it's important for what we're talking about today. In short, all candidates are, in my judgment, candidates who have a vision of how, in these six months or as far as the new government is concerned, to do what needs to be done as a continuity; to continue what has happened, what is happening; in short, the work in this country must not stop and will not stop because of this normal replacement. And at the same time, as Dr. Pavlich said at his presentation, to design and improve what he is, and to lay the foundations for the future, whether it be Dr. Paul or someone else in the future. And that's what we need from these people! Personally, the three very convinced me of this and after the experiences of my colleagues, who also told me this, and the two candidates remained the same. That's why I think we're going to get a very strong reinforcement of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u149	I don't think he mentioned you. No, I was, I listened very carefully. Will you be able to help me with my buddy Kremjar, please? I don't think you mentioned it. Are you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Mr President, I admit I mentioned it, but I'll also tell you how. I said I wouldn't polymise with Mr. Kelemino, who was whispering while I was talking. Of course, it's hard to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Good. Be careful with that. Please, a brief explanation, colleague Kelemina. You don't have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for this because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u153	Please. Just an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u154	Mr Kremjar misphrased some statements, and one of my statements, when he said that the minister who went to the European Commissioner did not cause a crisis in the country. [[...]] I didn't say that, and I also said that that's the only thing that's right to change, or to define a new candidate, that's all. Mr. Kremjar doesn't say anything else than that can't be done, it can't be done, we have laws, we have a legal state, let everyone do their job, but it doesn't work either. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u155	My friend Kelemin, an explanation for the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u156	In fact, if everything goes wrong, even if laws are not respected and so on, that does not mean that no one should answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Good. Comrade Kelemin - explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u158	It is imperative that he picks up and we are here, at least to call at the very least, in charge of my Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Comrade Kelemin - explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u160	Thank you very much. So much that it won't, because I [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u161	My friend Ferri Horvath now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate for Minister, candidates for Ministers. I just want to say two things briefly. For the first time, I think it is necessary to commend the Prime Minister for proposing, with the support of coalition partners, a candidate and candidates for ministers after the resignation of ministers and ministers in record time. According to the references we know, and as far as we can monitor the presentations and their answers today, we can argue that they are competent candidates and that it will not take a few months to get into work, but I am sure that, after what we have heard, they will read and what we know about their work, that they will be able to work very quickly, from tomorrow on, in fact, they will be called, it seems, successfully in the government. And secondly, a few words about the candidate for economic minister, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik. I have had the opportunity to monitor its work and views on the current economic situation before I can run through the media. And when I listened to his presentation and also part of the answers to the questions on the Committee on the Economy, I found that he knows very well the situation, movements and also the weak point of the Slovenian economy. He presented views on the necessary strategic direction and tasks of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in cooperation with other departments, which is very important for the future period. I don't think it's obvious that he's speaking like he's giving perspectives on the next four-year term without a vision, without a strategic view, you can't even work a few months successfully in the government. In addition to ensuring the continuation of projects that are in place in this ministry and in the government, it is worth noting that it has also rightly identified some new emphasis where it is necessary to accelerate and increase the efficiency of the Ministry's work. Last but not least, since it was again an inappropriate and inaccurate statement to the candidates that, given that he would only serve for a few months as a minister in this government, Dr Lahovnik, after his strategic display, gave very precise priority in the end to a small number of top priorities, consciously, for this short period of time in this mandate. And one more thing, the comments that he's young, that he doesn't have enough experience - I think they're also inappropriate. He replied to the Committee on the Economy when he showed his work, not only in academic practice and theory, but specifically in entrepreneurship, from running a small family business at home, to participating in companies such as Gorenje, and also in other companies. And let me conclude just by asking him a few years ago, when the Minister for Finance was elected in neighbouring Austria, who was about as old as Dr. Lahovnik, whether it was a mistake that he became the leader of one of the most important departments in the government. He replied that youth is the only mistake that is smaller every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u163	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Well, what's interesting is this conversation in these late night hours. Sometimes I get the impression that already in November 2004, when we hear so much courage, so much, I would say, content, so much criticism about this opposition, about the shadow government, about the performances of opposition Members, and so much as our candidates would sit there and somehow oppose our candidates; I also sometimes feel at today's performances of some. Well, I'd still say the following. I agree that, in fact, there is no custodian to replace ministers; after all, I always live in the belief that no man is irreplaceable. After all, there is no problem to be replaced from ministers to prime ministers, and I am sure that there is no irreplaceable minister in Slovenia. I don't see any problem either, as was said to be younger. Thank God, I'm for younger people. Even with the performances on the "hearings", as far as I've listened to them over the network, I think or agree that it is somehow untasting to expect people who are really only a few days candidates to not know what programmes they are preparing; after all, we are well aware of what is going on with such programs, how much they hold on to then or the government. This is so, well, the program may be the basis for a conversation to see whether a person is at home in a particular area or not, even if he is not at home completely, he flees to work within a few months. I also think that this team is probably going to do something smart. They're just going to need some time, some months, to start doing good. In every new job - you can still be such an expert before you get involved. That's right. And they're probably just going to cover a few holes in this term, do those running things, big things, you know, you can't do it yourself, it's over; here's summer, here's the end of work and so on. However, it would probably be a more serious solution to the one proposed to shorten this mandate for a few months and to go to the national elections in June. But now he's here. And I wonder how the candidates should be evaluated. In my opinion, based on their responses to the "hearings" it is impossible to judge a man well, I would not have hoped for him. In strangers, I don't know people, mostly three professors, I didn't go to their colleges, if they were in medicine, I'd probably know them better. What major mistakes they have probably not made and, similarly, I am somewhat more able to assess the two people who are in the government, Mr Squeakle and Mrs Cerar. We have already had Mr Squill here once, we have made it very clear that we have objected to taking the office of the President of the Court of Auditors because he somehow does not belong from the Government to this function or because we would like to have a fully apolitical person or a non-politically profiled person in this function. But we didn't say anything about his qualities, anything bad about his abilities. I think that I would personally support Mr Squikel if I could vote separately because I think that he is certainly the right person for the minister; this is a political function, which is part of the ministerial composition that the LDS mandate holder can draw up. But something else, unfortunately, I have to say about Mrs. Cerar. In fact, we can say more about her and the prosecution, since she has been a general prosecutor for five years. Here, unfortunately, I regret that, as a lady here, but there is a lot to be said, seriously, because what we have with our prosecution in these five years, if the same practice is repeated and the same approach continues, then I fear for the rule of law, that is my personal opinion. You know how we talked about corruption last summer, last fall in winter, a lot about corruption when the law was being drawn up, when corruption was being discussed here, and the results of the corruption survey, where it was clearly said that corruption of political and economic elites prevailed in Slovenia, were also said. "Trust in the state institution is declining, especially in the police and the prosecution. The latest data show that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is shrinking, we have reversed ten cities on the efficiency scale of the public institutions, after the entry into Europe the competitiveness will be further exacerbated, and a successful fight against corruption is a condition for economic growth." I don't think this thesis has ever been rejected, it's a serious matter. The situation in the area of corruption is deteriorating and our economy is therefore losing its competitiveness. Gentlemen, this and that he has a lot of words or a lot to say to the prosecution in these five years, which is a serious matter. Let me mention this, as a report by the GRECO Group of States against Corruption was also published in March, which also states that the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office does not carry out the task which it is obliged to perform and which it can carry out under the current legislation. How to fight corruption - the prosecution could take advantage of the possibility of temporary seizure of property acquired through corruption. When did this happen? Never! Never in those five years. And also the whole apparatus, the law enforcement, the prosecution, so to speak, the Slovenian police and the prosecutor's office have no specific direction on how to track down the perpetrator's assets. And we know how still, unfortunately, today is still looking for those who are going to research journalism, but they are discovering corruption, how they are being searched for and pursued by those who are more corrupt than they are. And to quote: "In economic crimes and corruption, only those investigations that start quickly can succeed." How fast did the study get started in the case of Rupel? Very fast. How soon in the case of Popovic? As soon as we heard of any insinuation or suspicion, he was immediately behind bars. But how quickly did the investigation into the truly severe corruption of SIB and Orion begin? How fast? We waited until they could pack all the paperwork and get it to safety. Who's responsible here if not the D.A.? You'll say, yes, a single prosecutor, the Attorney General, can only warn, do nothing. The Minister is responsible for his department, the Attorney General is objectively responsible for the prosecution in the country. After one year, she couldn't do it, but I think her statement that she did everything -- as she said, I'm sorry, "I'm sure that the tasks I've undertaken at the time of my assumption of the term of office have been fulfilled." How can I understand her statement, her conviction, that she has done everything in her power to fulfill all her duties? In only two ways: whether she has not set herself any tasks or she has set herself one that we do not know about, which is not actually our legislation is interested in or the tasks we do not feel when we want to have a legal state. I'm sure there are some disturbing cases in the case of the prosecution. As I said, in some cases it reacts extremely quickly, we know the case of Minister Rupl, where it was supposed to be an eight-million-dollar contract sum. Another minister also made 246 million contracts to K&S Consulting during the time of the Attorney-General, while another minister or minister, without taking into account the invitation to tender, allocated to K&S Consulting 246 million contracts and 40 million to her brother for some research project - this, of course, is not considered important and valuable by the Attorney-General. Two ministers - different. Let me tell you other cases how very heated the Attorney General was to pull this Depal affair over and over again, and to investigate and investigate the case of how an awful bust was made to some Minister of the Interior agent in a horrible way. But how was it that the whole thing was made between the criminal service and the police back then, in those days, it was literally a coup d'état or some strange scenarios that they were building, illegal and so on - and of course it's not worth dealing with. In the event of illegal spying on journalists Ranec, the case was, of course, later postponed or assigned to Mr Fischer, who, of course, the Attorney General of State is very, very confident. I will not go into Mr Fischer's work because he is not here on the programme, but I certainly think that it was extremely - in my opinion - unreally, unreservedly. In fact, in all of this you will say - and I admit it myself - we have different opinions. You certainly see the general prosecutor's office in a different light, I say what I see. We have different opinions, and that's right. Let me read three more opinions. Minister Rupel says that the number of prosecution failures was the most accumulated at a time when the prosecution was led by Mrs Cerar. Branko Lužar, Director of Orion, says that Mrs Cerarjeva has proven, with her successful and good work, that she is also suitable for the ministerial position - they are different opinions. Janez Ferenczak, a farmer from Prekmur and the victims of Orion's fraud, says that the Orion case has failed completely, while the "little fish" act incredibly quickly. These are different opinions. Just one thing is interesting: those who are up to their necks in corruption are praising it, and those who are victims of corruption, such as, say, Ferencak and similar "small fish" are dissatisfied. Those who need legal protection, the small people whom the state must protect from capital, from the stronger, the legal system must protect them, they are dissatisfied. That's right. And I find this assessment, this distribution of estimates very, very worrying. And of course, what do we have to do if Mrs. Cerarov is elected? Let me quote her on this one. She said, "Maybe I'll do my ministerial work with my experience without any major shocks." Yes, I also believe that she will do so without major shocks or any shocks, that lazy journalists will spy on corruption, and that no one else in the opposition would find any affair a day. Then he'll be fine. Then what lies in the courtroom will continue to lie, and the "big drops" will continue to be greased in this Slovenian corruptable milkshake.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u165	Does he want the word "Jereco Frostel"? Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable candidate for Minister, distinguished candidates! I would like to thank you for accepting this challenging task and trying to reasonably resolve the situation just before our historic equal integration into the European Community. This is an important step for our country. I appreciate your past work in your presentations, and I do not doubt your abilities and your human wisdom, which we still need in the government. Thank you, on behalf of my constituents and voters, citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u167	Thank you very much. A candidate for minister, Mr. Cwickl, would like to speak for an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u168	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members and Members, Madam Secretary-General, Madam So candidate and gentlemen of the so-candidates. When we started this meeting yesterday, I did not intend to come forward, although I would like to comment on a particular statement, I thanked you for a number of encouraging words. However, when this Monday was overstretched on Tuesday and we are obviously going to be discussing tasks or non-tasks for a long time, the obvious, but I think that I would like to comment on a few things that have been put forward. The thesis that if today was a vote on individuals or on the first sheet, yes, of course it would, then this so-called first two or even one would have said what was the broader support of the position and, of course, the work of the opposition. I would, of course, like to say in this regard that it is right to vote on a single sheet, because this team, which is supposed to receive support today or so, can, of course, only act together as a team, so it is right to vote on it in full. Only as a team will these individual candidates, future ministers, of course, be able to work on the portfolios, which then all together in the context of the so-called horizontal review are reflected in European affairs. Personally, because I am running for Minister for European Affairs, without good cooperation with these candidates and, of course, all the ministers of the government could not work. That is why, of course, I believe that the discussion is about supporting an individual candidate, of course, a discussion that is not possible at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u169	Let's move on. Now I'm happy to say that there aren't many applications anymore. Procedurally. Please. Just that it's really a procedural proposal. Which is the question, what is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u170	Mr President, I propose that we stop this meeting because we are not in an emergency situation and I see that there is also a lack of concentration on the part of candidates. Mr. Cwickl is moving into the area of the Justice Ministry as to whether it is the right list or not and is sharing lessons with us. Our citizens have the right to this debate, which is interesting, to monitor in normal situations and I do not think there is any need for an emergency situation in this country. Let us end this debate and continue tomorrow at ten.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u171	Comrade Jerovšek, we are at the end of the debate and if there is any further withdrawal, we will be very close to voting too, so that now I see no reason to be some colleagues, these are few, in a different position than the great majority. Comrade Zamrnik has given up, Comrade Malovrev is not, colleague Anderlič - wants a word? Nor, as I understand it, my colleagues Grošelj did not; my colleague Cimperman did not, my friend Christmas. Please. My friend Christmas, no. My friend Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I think that today's debate has shown at least me that it is really just about wanting to say as little as possible from the opposition as possible about the government's work so far, to say and want to say as little as possible about the candidates for ministers and their programmes and their personal characteristics, all in order to continue the campaign of pre-election, which they have already begun, that is my opinion, it is right for you to be upset, that is my opinion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u173	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u174	Second. I would like to point out that I am glad that such conduct has failed to sway a candidate in any way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u175	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u176	and candidates for ministers, even fewer coalitions. [[...]] It has proved that we are stable, that we know what we want. Thirdly, I think that the reasons why, unfortunately, six months before the regular elections had to be replaced by a government have been fully confirmed. The fact that the Slovenian People's Party stepped out of the coalition because of what it was brought us into this position, I would not want to talk about any guilt, but it is a fact. And fourthly, I think there's been a big difference between approaches to solving problems. Government representatives, Prime Minister and in many ways representatives of the government coalition have tried to show, together with ministers, what are the programmes that we still have to implement, what is the concern for development and for people in Slovenia, the responsibility for the country, the rule of law, how we want and represent joint and coordinated action; on your part, ladies and gentlemen, do not blame me, there was only one negative energy. If you knew how to say a good sentence, I might be able to review the script and what introduction you later demented to find, but in fact you tried to exaggerate to extremes. Maybe this helps. I'm afraid it hasn't helped you much. And that is why last: I think today's debate has shown what the orientations and possibilities for further perspectives of Slovenia are in one and the other options. Congratulations to the candidates and candidates, in addition to the knowledge they have presented in their parent work bodies, today have shown an abundance of energy, nerves, peaceful blood, I think this is also the property or qualities that these next few months will require in our National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u177	Thank you very much. He wants a word with his colleague Vizjak?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Even on my part, good morning to the candidates. Of course, I would not personally like to see candidates in some areas, which, of course, will be replaced for a short time, who are ahead of us today, repeat or continue the situation as they have been before; for I do not think that in all areas of our country the situation is good and that there is a need to correct it in many ways. Above all, I would no longer be attached to all these things that have already been said here, and I am interested in one key thing, and I would like to be asked if it is possible to answer that question. In other words, judicial backlogs are a fact. The fact is, too, that some judicial backlogs are shrinking. Above all, I am also in pain, although I personally did not have to deal with it, judicial backlogs or unreasonable trial in the event of labour disputes. The problem is that in the event of losses - including the Ombudsman - it is written in his annual report that many violations of labour law continue to occur precisely with regard to the termination, extraordinary cancellations of employment contracts and other infringements related to labour legislation, where it is extremely important to have a rapid judicial epilogue. For the speed of these procedures also works preventively against repeated violations. Here I have to find that we've been digging on the spot for quite some time now and that there hasn't been much change in this area. I would like to know whether the candidate actually sees the possibility of moving forward in this area, or of reducing it, according to my assessment of the unacceptable situation, which also generates new violations. It is said that unreasonablely long procedures generate new procedures, for many are precisely due to long-term procedures this motive for breach. Second, I would ask Mr Pavlich two questions. The first is related to the equivalent treatment of all forms of transport. I am interested in air traffic, and I have also read the magnetogram of "hearing", but I have not noticed his view of the network of civilian airports in the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder if he sees in the network of civilian airports also the current military airport of Crklje ob Krka, which I believe is a suitable location for the development of civil aviation activities, both due to the uncovered part of Slovenia and due to the proximity of the Schengen border, both the road and the railway international corridor and also due to the proximity of Zagreb and the Zagreb airport. And from this title, I think it has a big perspective, infrastructure is built, a little goodwill in the government, and it can also be a civilian airport. I am also interested in the answer to the affair or non-aference of the alleged places of intellectual property or copyright of the Napan project. In particular, the operation of the North Adriatic ports system and the location of the territory of the port of Koper is extremely important from the point of view of the state of Slovenia and its economic development. Finally, it is also possible to talk here about the development of the second track of the Koper-Divač railway connection. In 1998, Dr. Robert Vodopivec, as well as the Slovenian Director of the Slovenian Economic and International Association or representative in Brussels, Dr Boris Cizl, will not be able to evaluate and later confirm the programme, the Napan project or the port network and, of course, this Napan project. As coordinator of this, of course, Dr. Vodopivec was chosen, who also signed the contract. Since the University of Ljubljana is a signatory to the treaty, the project could, of course, also be carried out by any other members of the university. It was somehow possible to conclude that this was how Dr. Yuri Kolenc and, of course, Mr Marko Pavliha tried to acquire and adopt this project and that there was also a replacement of the coordinator, where Mr Vodopivac was to replace Dr Pavlih. Unfortunately from this project, because of these affairs of substitutions there was not much, so ambition was to move this project to the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, and some money was spent from this approved project and a bitter experience of professors at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs regarding the problems related to the authorship of this project. I'm not reading anyone here. I ask Professor Pavliho how he comments on this affair, how he sees it, and what is its side of the story. For many, including the rector and others, were asked for this, so that it would only be right for us to hear another side. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My friend Rupar? You're giving up the debate? Then he is among his last colleagues, colleague Janš, and then the Prime Minister and ministers and ministers. Excuse me? That's how they switched in the parliamentary group. Please, is there any objection from the sent-off bench? This has been reported from the Group of Members. Please, you have the floor. You have the floor, Comrade Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u180	Not everyone thinks so, so I'm waiting. So thank you for your word. One more time. I would like to respond to some of the statements made mainly by the candidate and the candidates in these performances, in particular some of the claims which were denied earlier when we listened to the performances of the groups. But it persists in claiming that some things are black, even though they are white. Thus, the candidate for the Minister of Justice claimed that she had never done anything at the prosecution's office to dispute, break the law or anything. That's not true. It just doesn't hold. I read a letter, which had already been published a few days ago, and we also received a letter in the Smallen case saying: "Mrs. Zdenka Cerar is morally not suitable for a justice minister. She abused the official position when Matti Zupančič from the official prosecution record sent information for private purposes." That's proven. When Mrs Cerarjeva was an even higher prosecutor, she sent Mrs Matti Zupančič with a letter, which had never been revoked, data from the prosecution records for private purposes. As a result, people were wronged; they had to recover the right, only a few years later did they achieve it in court. There was no excuse, but there was no sanction. So it's not like everything's clean here and there's been no abuse of the law. Then we read or listened to a candidate who said the following about SIBs, things that were obviously not true and are a lie. He says, today, a few hours ago, "The SIB bank is for us a name, an act, a place, a time, because it's the only way to deal with the matter. And it is not true that we received from the municipality of Ljubljana, a group of members of the SDS complaint. We received a magnetogram recording a meeting of the municipal municipality when Members argued about whether or not the bank should be bought, and one against one for. So, such an application cannot be counted as an accusation, and I must point out that the prosecutor cannot act before the act is committed, we always come later." Well, here, I must say, very late. But above all, it does not claim that this criminal complaint was received at a time when the act had not yet been committed. For this declaration was sent in January, when most of the shares were already sold and when the city council did not, as you say, argue about whether or not the bank should be bought and were one for or against, but was a dilemma - and that was also the vote - whether the city councillors in Ljubljana want to know the circumstances of the purchase of SIB. This was also the conclusion, 'or you want to get acquainted with the purchase of SIB', which has already been done, otherwise such a decision would not be proposed. And then there was a vote, and the ruling coalition voted not to get to know each other. Well, and in this debate, which lasted many hours, most of the things that are also publicly known today and which are also the reason why the investigation is ongoing. Most of the stuff, Mrs. Cerarjeva, was written in this magnetogram, most of it. Quite enough to suspect that this is a serious matter, much more serious than in the case of the Foreign Minister's diplomatic academy, is far more serious. I can read it again because time is not limited, the whole tape if you want, and you'll see it's a very serious matter. You've ruled that the obvious case doesn't deserve to be treated, so it wasn't even on the prosecution. You called the councilman's office to be sent back after one year. The state's Attorney's Office also lost this and lost it to the police, unfortunately. One year nothing happened, nothing happened. Thus, it is not claimed that the act was not done at the time and does not hold the claim that they received a magnetogram where the saints argued. In that debate, most of the suspicions of the crime being investigated were mentioned, but no action was taken at that time. The empty excuse that this was a meeting where the saints fought can be bought by someone who has not read it, those who have read it simply cannot buy it. And, of course, it is not true that you have done the same in all cases. There are quite a few cases where the general prosecutor’s great warmth was involved when it came to real people or institutions. Here I have a document from the Ministry of the Interior, and the administration of the criminal service, which says, the date bears 13.9.2001, says: "On the initiative of the Attorney General Zdenka Cerar, on the initiative of the Attorney General Zdenka Cerar, she also provided documentation, interviewed Andre Jerman Blažić" and so on and so on. It is, however, a matter of purchasing computer equipment for the Ministry of the Economy or charges against Dr. Zagozhn, former Minister of Economy. In his case, you personally ordered the police administration to do what to do, deliver the documentation, and when the indictment was filed, which has now been dropped in court, because the court demanded an investigation, and the prosecution filed a direct indictment without an investigation when the indictment was filed, Mr Gregor Golobič, President of the Council of Liberal Democracy, talked about this before anyone even knew it. If this isn't a political connection and political action, then I really don't know. In the case of the former Minister of the Economy, the immediate measure, the order to the police, the personal extradition of the documentation, the initiative, the sending of witnesses there, first the Attorney General and then to the hearings and the indictment filed, without even being made a request for an investigation, which is now rejected. I can read it if you want. But when it came to the SIB bank, nothing, no reaction when it came to the case of the former Minister of Education, as my colleague Tsukati was talking about, nothing, nothing of any interest, when it came to Dr. Zagozny, who happens to belong to the opposition, but of course a great deal of warmth. In all cases, it is not the same, politically arbitrary conduct, and if it is a characteristic of someone who will act as Minister of Justice or Minister of Justice, which is supposed to be a neutral matter, I do not know. So, they don't keep this claim from the performances so far, and there's still a few, but they wouldn't go on because things are getting worse. I would also ask the candidate for Minister of Economy whether he met the condition that he himself stated that if he wanted to come through to the vote in the National Assembly, he should fulfil it. When it came to the candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, at that time, last November, Mr Lahovnik was asked what conditions the candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors must fulfil in order to be confirmed in the National Assembly. Mr Lahovnik's response was extremely witty, he said that this candidate must meet three conditions, the LDS. The candidate to be confirmed in this National Assembly must meet three conditions, the LDS. Mr Biščak, the Executive Director of this LDS, responded by saying that the opinion of Mr Močovnik is extremely uncreditable and that it is uncreditable to listen to such assessments from a person who gives his expert opinions, if only a condition is met, is the letter S with two lines. So, what are the conditions now, Mr. Lahovnik, that you meet for this city, or those first three that you yourself mentioned, or that last one that Mr. Biščak mentioned? Both of them, apparently. I must say that you are coming to the right society, in the society where you have been proposed, both are important, otherwise this proposal probably would not be. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u181	Now we will first hear the word that the candidate for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Cerar, wants to hear the word of Dr Pavlich and, finally, the Minister-General of Mags. Robbery, but also Dr. Lakhovnik before. Please, let's go in order. First, Mrs. Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the third time I've heard from anyone without an excuse. I'm gonna get to the point. I did not mention the Little One issue in particular, but I will, because it appears to appear, because it is difficult in Parliament to talk about the personal fate of a person. I was the state's attorney, and I've been handling his criminal case. He was in criminal proceedings for fraud against clients as a lawyer. And he was also convicted in the first degree, and in the appeal hearing, I represented the case as the Attorney General. Minister Meta Zupančič, who is my sports colleague and colleague by profession, actually asked me for information from our paper on his procedure because she had to decide on his candidacy. The Minister has the right and the duty to obtain such information. And there was no overstatement, not mine, not on her side. And I must also say that Mr Malhen has filed a criminal complaint, which, of course, has been rejected, because I assure you that the procedure has been completely corrected - it has been rejected. [[Back-up advertising.]] Maybe we could hold out, I'm out when you guys were talking. So this was the procedure that was in the hands of the Minister of Justice. Of course, then he went on, and I didn't follow him. My only role was to deliver the data from the criminal record that was mine, which I was dealing with, so she asked me to deliver the documents. But I have to say that I have delivered a judgment of pardon, and this can be seen in the file. Furthermore, the SIB bank, a magnetogram of a meeting where different options are discussed, what is better and what is worse, has received and assessed that there is no basis for criminal proceedings. It's not true the D.A. didn't get anything. The State's Attorney's Office has received this and has also dealt with it. And if you look at my report to this National Assembly, Mr President Pahor, you will see exactly that I have reported it. It is true, however, that the Attorney General's Office has not received this role. However, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office is not competent to deal with applications at the first stage, and if they were to receive them, they would only resign them to the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. It's a regular procedure, there's no other option. That's why there was no damage. The competent prosecutor’s assessment was that such data resulting from the magnetogram were not the basis for the introduction of certain activities, as it was not even known who would have committed certain or any irregularities. In short, it was just an evaluation by a competent state prosecutor. With regard to Andrej Jerman Blažić's complaint, he came to the Attorney General's Office with a request to provide certain information on a case. Of course, there was no telling which one at the time, and I must say that this is not such a rare case. Many times - and let me say, for example, that it was the Red Cross issue that began in the same way that people came to me who wanted the procedure to begin but did not want to be named; evidence was provided and the Red Cross began. And not by me starting it, but by giving up the case to the competent prosecutor or the police. When the information on a case is very incomplete, it is not sufficiently clear, then we will always give the police who are responsible for detecting the crime and for detecting the perpetrators. In the event that he filed a complaint with the Attorney General's Office or a report - now I have no memory - and the file submitted by Andrej Jerman Blažič, we dismissed this matter to the general police administration, normally as an authority to investigate it. It's a perfectly normal procedure, I don't see anything wrong with it. In order not to go back to the Railroad case, I must point out that my assessment of whether it was negligence or negligence means that in this closet the files were not in important cases, but that his business was so irregular that certain things we call KTR, KTN, are things that are not actually the basis for criminal proceedings and therefore could somehow lie down. Those who are active can't hide, those we follow. And who's following that? Following the organisation for which Mr Petan asked me today, I will say that their leaders are responsible for the correct legality and timeliness of the work of the District Prosecutors; this is according to the rules on the internal organisation and operation of state prosecutors. And I must also say this that the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana has more than 41,000 entries per year and that there is no possibility of any physical control or constant review, that there is also confidence in honesty and on the computer program. Let me stress that the computer program we started actually putting in place a good year last year when you approved us a legal-information centre. And that we are far from the judiciary in the prosecution, and that is also why one of the main points where I see that the future minister or minister will have to take a big step forward. So it is true that with my colleague Railways, who was the head of the department, he was the head of the economic and criminal department and he essentially shared the matter and did not work in large cases personally; I have already said that he had two cases that were both before the court and the others were his colleagues in the department. That's the railroad situation. The content audit is still under way, the Head of the District Attorney's Office is carrying out it, and once the final report is in place, of course, it will go to the appropriate place. And also an answer to the Member of Parliament from the field of labour law. In this area, we had a major obstacle to legislation, where old Yugoslav rules were in force, the Labour Rights Act, the CAPR. Well, this has now passed and we have a new labour law, just as we have a law on public servants in the administration. These relations are now different and are expected to be one of the levers for a quicker resolution of matters. However, there would be a great advantage in this country if there were no collective disputes. But here I am referring to those who repeat themselves when, for example, from one type of rights, they are suing compensation or other types of claims and should, for example, be resolved in thousands of cases in the same way. Certain activities are also being carried out in this area. Well, since it's late, I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cerar. Dr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u184	Dear High Council! I'm sorry I'm not going to list all the distinguished people here, but I'm going to save you five minutes. Very briefly, what I haven't commented on yet, and the airports are Napan. The airport network is certainly a project worth considering and, as I know, colleagues at the Ministry are already thinking or working on a so-called airport development strategy. My proposal is a little different. I think we need a national aviation development strategy or programme, including airports, a small or large one based on transport policy. On the second question, I just have to fix it, it's not about Napam, it's about Napan, which means North Adriatic ports area network. Two projects need to be separated here. The first is one that belongs to, if I may say, the future jurisdiction, mine, the ministries of transport, and the other to the academic spheres. The first is particularly important because it is a matter of implementing the policy of the European Union, it is the cooperation of North Adriatic ports and the problem which I have also explained on "hearing" is that this authority should belong to the Chamber of Economics, Slovenia and the Ministry of Transport have initiated this project, and I say that this project must return to the Ministry of Transport. What has been mentioned, however, is also a bit of a contractual relationship in relation to which, of course, the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport of the University of Ljubljana, which has signed a contract in accordance with the rules. Now I could explain for three hours what the content of this contract is, I ask you to ask for detailed information on the dean of this university or on the rectorate of the University of Ljubljana, who will gladly comply with all the information. And, speaking of which, on this occasion, I would like to say no more, my dear Member and Members, and on my behalf and I hope that I am also speaking for all five of them, to thank you most very much for the support I have shown, which I hope, or I am sure that it will also show up in the vote. You, dear Members and Members, who have stabbed us for quite some time, have also desired and expressed your scepticism in other ways, but only that we will exert all our strength, not only together, but together, the five of us, but together in the new government, to prove that your vine scepticism is twisted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u185	Good. The President. Dr. Lakhovnik still wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. I might like to answer a few questions that have been asked. Dear Members, especially from the opposition, I see that they have read my statements and my contributions carefully, because there have been many, I believe that you have done so thoroughly. It is true, however, that in some ways only one of the statements was exempted. The fact is that in all democratically elected parliaments, including that of which I have been asked, as well as our functions are decided by the majority of Members of the National Assembly. That's how it's gonna be in our case. As regards other matters concerning the economic programme, I must say that honourable Member Jerovšek was present at the "hearing", he pointed out that I spoke about three aspects of my programme. Mr Jerovšek, I must correct you. I spoke of two. The third aspect was what you spoke of. I did not speak of it. It was composed of two aspects, one of long-term strategic orientations and one of a few months' mandate, and I pointed out that I was aware of the time constraints and that was the case. And perhaps, as regards the other observation that the economic programme had not been completed, I must say that I also consulted with various fellow economists when I was preparing for the 'hearing', even when I was drawing up my economic programme, I would also consult with those 500 experts that you were talking about, Mr Janša, and I found that they were invisible, so that somehow I did not consult them afterwards, but I would, because I intended to actually consult all those who were able to make a contribution. As far as the public interest was concerned, whether I would represent the public interest. Not only do I say this now, I'll do it later if I'm elected, I swear. That's kind of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u187	Prime Minister, mag. Robbery. Peace. Mag. Robbery, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u188	Dear Members, honourable Members, the esteemed High Council! You have before you the proposal of four candidates for ministers and candidates for the Minister. Today, we have heard a lot of criticism together and, of course, a lot of praise. However, I think it is important that we have also had a dialogue that went for and against and I think that this is very good and that this dialogue has shown that, at least in my own opinion, there are undoubtedly candidates who are good, who are competent and professional and these last discussions have shown that they are also funny. And this, of course, seems important to me for this function and the functions that they will perform. I believe that these are candidates, as I said, who can take over the functions that way and will also perform them, and today's answers are at least me, and I believe that most of them in this national council have further convinced us, we have been convinced by the 'hearing', by today's answers and by these latest answers. And what is even more important, I am firmly convinced that their work will also convince us, and at this point I believe even more. The biggest part of today's discussion was devoted to the proposal for the Minister of Justice, and I am sure that Mrs Cerar has responded to many flat-rate revelations, which are very common in Slovenia, and I believe that many more will appear, respond well and pointed both to the real problems in justice and to reject the wrong, extremely politicised understanding of the way of justice. As I said, I believe that this is not the last such discussion and it is good that the appointment of the Minister will allow for a more reasoned discussion on the role and situation of the rule of law in Slovenia, and this further confirms the correctness of the decision for Mrs Cerar. Dear Members and Members, I am confident that the government will further strengthen itself with the new Minister and Ministers and have an additional impetus, so of course I propose that you support this proposed list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the appointment of ministers is voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole, so I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly appoints Dr. Matey Lahovnik as Minister of Economy, Mag. Milan MartinaCvikla, Minister without a department responsible for European affairs, Dr Milan Pogačnik, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Mark Pavliho, Minister of Transport and Mrs Zdenko Cerar, Minister of Justice." I will take a further vote on such a proposal for a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice before that? Nobody. Please, if you'll check. Bad boy. Explanation of voice. You have that right if you want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u190	I've reported it before, and I'm only going to end it with two sentences. [[...]] In fact, I've been looking at Mark Paulich here for hours, and then I turn to that side and I see that there are more Pauls here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u191	I ask that we be very disciplined in explaining our voice. It's not a controversy, it's not a replica. Who wanted a word? Please, colleague Brenčič, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u192	Thank you very much. In my mandate so far in this House, I have seen a presentation of candidates for ministers, who also had academic titles, and a little more international references, but they were able to act like dignified people and I was proud of them. In today's presentation of some young people, I certainly did not, but someone would have received support, and generally none, depending on the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u193	Comrade Janš, explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u194	Yeah, I'll vote against it, of course, even because I heard a lie the second time, you know, about how it wasn't an illegal act in the case of Tiny. How Matti Zupančič was sent is just a file that the candidate herself dealt with. Even if I were to deal with it, it doesn't change anything, it was about sending files from cases that were, where the conviction had already been deleted and the letter reads like that, "in the annex I am sending you a judgment in Sergei Smallen's case, as the district attorney from New City Niko Brcelj sent me from the D.A.'s office by fax," it says, not from some closet there at the desk, but it was obtained. "He told me before that Sergei was a little disciplined, this is in the Slovenian Bar Association, which I did not know about until now." If it's not an abuse of a prosecutor's office to harm an anti-candidate, someone who isn't at the mercy of a justice minister, then I don't know what an abuse is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u195	Vote explanation, Comrade Anderlich. Three minutes, probably on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u196	Given what we listened to yesterday afternoon and this hour this morning, one should ask whether we are filling the government with ministers and ministers who have specific tasks to carry out, or whether we want something that I have actually listened to today and yesterday that I thought the National Assembly would never do. That people with specific files will come here, with details of certain transactions. With data from individual records and the like, which I believe can only be obtained by passing the law and passing the regulations in this country. And this is something that went far, far below the level of Parliament and the moment that we were today when we were addressing the candidate and the candidates for the minister. I just want to make sure that, in the future, the Minister and the whole government really succeeds in ensuring that the things that are from the judiciary will return to where they must be, that the authorities will do what they have to do, and that I have heard for the first time today that some Yelen company has been in some process of purchasing some computers that have never been purchased. It was 110 million tolars. And what this same Iskra, who was supposed to get these computers, because she couldn't pay the money back, went for 110 million dollars of state money, ordered the same deer for 30 million New Year's gifts, and another company for the same owner. The computer spark went bankrupt. Helen also went to bankruptcy later and so on. I'm listening to all this today, reading in the halls when they explain it to me. As a Member, I do not want to hear this in the future, because this is not the work of the National Assembly. And secondly, I want all these things to be cleared up where they need to be. And that is also why we will support Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy with this list of candidates for the Minister and Ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u197	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Sometimes we just miss it. Instead of, say, Mr. Minister, we call it Rado, or we can do that. And that's exactly what it is when it's awkwardly done, or if the one who writes even wants to get a little puffed up, says what Meta says, and so on. Otherwise, I wonder what is more normal than that someone who is a minister and needs to propose someone to a responsible position or to a responsible job, such as the work of a notary to know about it before. See, that's how things get used to. And that is why I am even more confident, despite all the concerns that have been expressed in the way that this has now been in explanation of the vote that the candidates are fit. And I will say another thing: The youth mentioned, those who have doubts about youth, I would say that they should read newspapers from ten, fifteen years ago. France, a great country, had a 37-year-old prime minister. Thank you very much. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u199	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. Can you please all check the operation of your voting devices first? Since I have bad experience with this, I will ask once again if you can verify the functioning of your voting devices. We will vote on the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly appoints five of these candidates and candidates to the posts of ministers and ministers. We're voting. 76 present, 51 for and 25 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I find that the list of ministers and ministers has been voted on. [[Let's hear it.]] I ask the protocol to prepare everything necessary for the oath of ministers and ministers. We'll do it now. The first one will be sworn in by Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, please swear as Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u200	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u201	Congratulations! Congratulations again! At your work, I wish you all the best! [[Let's hear it.]] Now the Mag will swear. Milan Martin Cwickl, Minister without a department responsible for European affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u202	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u203	Congratulations! I want you to do your job well, Mr. Secretary. The following will be sworn by Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u204	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u205	Congratulations and I wish you all the best in doing your job! [[Let's hear it.]] Dr. Mark Pavliha, Minister of Transport, will now swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u206	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u207	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary, and I wish you well too! [[Let's hear it.]] Mrs Zdenka Cerar, Minister of Justice, will now swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u208	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u209	Congratulations, Madam Minister, you too! [[Let's hear it.]] Thus, the government is complete with the new minister and ministers. I thank Mr Prime Minister and all the newly elected ones for their cooperation at the meeting of the National Assembly yesterday and today. Although we have not finished today's work, I mean the part before the session is concluded tonight. We've got a mandate to do. I don't expect them to be [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I suggest you stop the session for today. I don't know if you're aware and aware of the legislation that talks about a break between two workers. At 9 a.m., we begin with a meeting of the National Assembly. It's one o'clock in the morning, and by the next day or until our next "shihta", at home, we have nine hours. And who will take responsibility for these violations of the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u211	I'll wait until the National Assembly calms down first. Can I ask the ministers and ministers to accept congratulations after the end of the National Assembly? We'd like to get back to work. Peace. Just a little patience. Can I ask the ministers and ministers to allow the National Assembly to conclude tonight's work? I'm asking for peace in the hall. So colleague Vizjak actually made a procedural proposal to stop the session today. Let me remind my distinguished colleagues that at the beginning of today's work I have pointed out that there are many applicants and that the meeting may be delayed, so I wanted to suggest that it should be limited. I propose that we continue, we do not have much work to do today, and this would allow us to proceed normally tomorrow as we planned at the college. Of course, I will put a procedural proposal to the vote. If he does not receive the necessary majority, the National Assembly will, of course, continue its decision-making. However, the procedural proposal put forward by colleague Vizjak is that decisions related to the end of today's planned day will be made to continue today - or otherwise? Like that? Yeah. The candidates are all here, waiting for the decisions of the assembly, so we will now put our colleague Visiank's proposal to the vote. We are voting on this procedural proposal to move forward. This proposal did not receive the necessary majority. 71 in attendance, 25 in and 46 in. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary majority. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u212	Given that you have been warned that we should not, however, be in breach of labour law and that we have properly held the meeting and the government's confirmation, we did not want to obstruct these matters in any way. We are leaving this session now in terms of obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u213	Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u214	Colleague Školč, it is not a matter of sleep, it is also a relation to these civil servants of the National Assembly, who must also work in this National Assembly. Those professional coworkers, the monitoring services, the technical services, the lawyers, the advisory services, they just have to work, and it's not just for us. The New Slovenia Group also predicts obstruction. Such a way of working speaks of it as if we have a state of emergency in this country on the sunny side of the Alps.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u215	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u216	Do you allow me to say it all the way? These are your perceptions with your government, and that's why you think all the staff of this National Assembly will be working after 16 hours without interruption. This is not worthy, Mr President, I think that you should break, respect the rules on working relations, on inspection for work. You don't take that into account, and that's a bad way to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u217	See, this was first of all fully aware of the College and, above all, I, when I started the meeting and I recalled that without shortening the debate on the proposal for the appointment of ministers today, we will not conclude within a reasonable period of time. Well, you rejected such a proposal, you said that you were not in favour of shortening the debate and that this would normally end the work before it did. So it is the responsibility of all of us together, the duties that are, we must do and move on. 33. It's the day's turn, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to proposals for decisions on election to judicial functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u218	The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the National Assembly on the election to a judicial function, namely, to the courts of the District Court in the District Court in Maribor and two District Judges in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. Head of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. The MPs, the MPs? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First of all, we will decide on the proposal for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Vanja Verdel Kokol to the district court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Marjance Černač to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Daje Bah Koren to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President, a Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission. In its consideration of the meeting, the Commission presented a proposal for a decision appointing the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Anti-Corruption Commission, appointed by the National Assembly on the basis of Article 5 of the Anti-Corruption Act on a proposal from the President of the Republic, the Judicial Council, the Election Commission and the Government. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the applicants would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u219	Dear Vice President! Dear Members and Members! Thank you for your word. So we have before us a proposal for a candidate for president of the anti-corruption commission and a vice-president of the anti-corruption commission. The procedure was carried out in accordance with the anti-corruption law, which provides for a call for tender, the whole procedure, and this proposal is then forwarded by the President of the Republic to Parliament. The candidates have already been discussed on the Commission's electoral mandate, where proposals have been more detailed and proposed. Let me just remind you that both candidates, both for the President and for the Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, meet all the legal conditions and requirements. Let me point out that Mr Drago Kos is an expert in anti-corruption legislation, both in the drafting of a resolution on the prevention of corruption and in the systemic legislation itself. He also participates in a number of expert groups in criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it is internationally active. At present, he is the president of the Group of States of the Council of Europe against Corruption, i.e. the GRECO Group, which is probably the most influential international organisation in the field of systemic anti-corruption prevention in the Council of Europe. It also participates in a number of other international professional associations and, as it is said, has all the required legal conditions and criteria for carrying out this function. Ms Žnidaršič Ferrari, candidate, is also a university graduate lawyer, she participates in a number of professional associations. However, since 1995, he has been a member of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and has had a very good review of the area of public finances and the system of state administration in the Republic of Slovenia, and for these reasons we also believe that Mrs Žnidaršič has provided all the necessary conditions for election to this function and, of course, we ask for confirmation of both proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. Nahtigal, Representative of the Office of the President of the Republic. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr. Anton Anderlich, don't you want to? Mr. Janez Mr. Franci Rokavec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that the President of the Republic did not, after the situation had taken place, seek out potential candidates for the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, the possibility that he would also choose a second option, if one of the possible candidates had resigned, to repeat the invitation. Now we have only one option, or to vote against the package, is against everything because, of course, we do not agree with the proposal for President of this Commission. This is what we are forced to do in the parliamentary group, regardless of the fact that we can agree with some of the candidates for a member and members of this committee. In fact, the anti-corruption commission is first set up to such an extent as an independent institution, and it is also important that the first man or the first person in charge of this commission is removed from any doubt as to the possible bias or interdependence in the functioning of this institution or, in particular, in the execution of the main project, the anti-corruption law. If that's not the case, of course, it's a very bad trip. This was also pointed out by special letter representatives of the Act of Journalists of Radiotelevision Slovenia. That is why, of course, we will vote against the proposed proposal in the parliamentary group because we are aware of our responsibility. We don't have a choice. We also invite all other Members and Members of Parliament, who are still left to listen to this call, of course. Of course, otherwise, it will probably happen on a black Tuesday when, of course, those essential elements of control or control in this country are being tried, perhaps even unilaterally preparing control and control or hunting only small fish, and of course, great things are being pushed under the rug, even realized. In such a project, we would not want to participate in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Members and Members now have the floor. As respectable colleagues have abandoned us, I ask which of those who have applied would like a word that I do not read everyone in order. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u223	I hope that, on behalf of the LDS Group, I can also accept this sincere regret and concern of the SLS Group on this appointment, and at the same time I believe that this working body must be appointed as soon as possible, so that the concerns that have been addressed by members of this group and the entire Parliament over the years in relation to preventing corruption problems will be addressed as soon as possible. I hope that this Commission will carry out its task in full composition as soon as possible, and I also use this place to call on the Council of Justice to propose a missing member or member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. We will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President, a Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission for a period of six years, namely: "To the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption for a period of six years, they shall be appointed on the proposal of the President of the Republic for President Drago Kos, a Vice-President of the Naja Žnidaršič Ferrari, on the proposal of the Judicial Council, as we have already found, no candidate has yet been proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for a member of Barbara Lavtar and a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a member of mags. "Thank you." We are voting on such a proposal for a decision. Explanation of voice. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I will also vote in favour of this decision, as the School has already said, and also with pleasure for Mr Drag Kos, because from the means of informing when I read it, I have seen that he was one of the very few criminals who has been doing his job in the arms trade for many years and it seems to me that even from this political aspect goes to him as a man who is not trustworthy for this function. I think as much as he was an honest judge in football courts, at least as I know him, he was also in these investigations. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, explanation for the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u227	Thank you, for your word. With this difference, I have a slightly different argument with these arguments, as my colleague Moge put it. I don't, my friend. School, soccer. If it was funny to you when we had an investigative commission in the Vič-Holmec affair, it was not funny to me, and in that report, which was produced in Gričar's report, where the official records of some police officers and other employees of the Ministry of the Interior and also some political officials who were in some way acting as officials, I have doubts and reservations that at that time the reputation of Slovenian police and police officers was and was tarnished, precisely for the reason that those who should have been disinformationed and because of the instigation and discreditation of Slovenian police officers, especially police officers who come from Koroška, in some way discredited and anyone who took five minutes of time and would have read it, would in some way understand to me that a person also has the thought and detention that I cannot decide that this proposal from the President of the State to support [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] With support, you always have to look at two edges, one is bright, the other is dark. [[...]] I simply decided to have my reservations in this decision, mainly from my personal work and from the time I was a member of this commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Can we move on to a decision? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I ask the President, Madam Vice-President and the Member of the Anti-Corruption Commission to swear before the National Assembly. First, on behalf of all those who have expressed our trust, sincere congratulations to this congregation for its appointment!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u229	I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my duties, to act conscientiously and honestly and always to exercise the interests of the common good before private interests. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u230	My sincere congratulations, Mr. President Drago Kos! I invite Vice-President Nadja Žnidaršič Ferrari to take an oath before the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u231	I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my duties, to act conscientiously and honestly and always to exercise the interests of the common good before private interests. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u232	My sincere congratulations to the Vice-President! I invite Mrs. Barbara Lovtar, a member, to take an oath before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u233	I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my duties, to act conscientiously and honestly and always to exercise the interests of the common good before private interests. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u234	Once again, respected, respected, sincere congratulations and a great deal of success in the performance of your duties. Member of the Commission mag. Marko Thank you for being officially detained today, so he'll swear later. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for decisions on the discharge of three judges of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. Three conclusions are in front of us. First of all, we will decide on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Iztok Purič from the function of a jury judge of the employees of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Franz Prodnik from the function of a jury judge of the employment and social court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Marija Vrhovnik as a judge of the jury from the types of employers of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a briefing by Dr. Vojko Antončič, President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors forwarded, pursuant to the first paragraph of paragraph 1 of Article 10(1) of the Law on the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly, a declaration that he resigned from that function. On the basis of Article 10, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors, and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes that the following decision be made to the General Assembly: "The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia shall determine that the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Vojko Antončič, who performs this function under Article 7, paragraph 7, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, shall submit a declaration to the National Assembly on 29 March 2004 to withdraw from the office of the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, giving reasons for its early discharge pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Court of Auditors. Therefore, in accordance with the sixth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, he shall cease to serve as President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the date of his finding at the meeting of the National Assembly." This concludes this agenda item. And three short votes. We're moving to 2. On the basis of the request of the assembly of Members, the State assembly shall decide on the decision of the College of the President of the State to adopt the draft Tax Procedure Act by means of an urgent procedure. This is because, within five days of the decision of the College, a group of 18 Members, with the first-signed Frances Tsukati, requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the National Assembly. There are no candidates. There is no discussion and no explanation of vote on this request, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the next decision. Procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u235	Apologies, Vice President. Of all the 18 signatories to this proposal, I don't think there's one in the hall. I propose that this proposal be decided this morning by the State Assembly before the meeting is resumed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We will decide on Mr Podobnik's procedural proposal. On the agenda, as the College of the President of the National Assembly concluded, these points were also points 29 and 30, i.e. two thirds of the hearing. That's right. Only this point to be transferred to the decision tomorrow at 10 a.m. This procedural proposal by Mr Sponik is put to the vote. We vote. There are 55 of us present, 24 votes against 9. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted the procedural proposal and therefore I report that, in accordance with the procedural proposal, the vote on the request of the Group of Members, i.e. on the 2nd item of the agenda, will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, this is on the third time a proposal for a law on amendments to the Railway Safety Act. At its 42nd extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly considered the amended law as an additional proposal and adopted no amendments. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third consideration of the proposal was included in the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. On 16.4.2004, the Government submitted a harmonisation amendment to Article 5 which you received and also to Articles 8 and 16 which you received today. Would you like a representative of the government? Mag. Matjaž Knez, State Secretary, Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The Government has prepared a proposal for a law of three harmonisation amendments, which mainly relate to compliance with the building law, namely Articles 5 and 8 and 16. In fact, it is the harmonisation amendments within the law itself. This prevents the duplication of certain dictatorships under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? [[Yeah.]] First, on the harmonisation amendment to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] So we can make a decision. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 5 has been adopted. I shall make the harmonisation amendment to Article 8 for discussion and decision. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled the harmonisation amendments, as I said. [[We've got them on the bench.]] . The Secretary of State explained. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. And the harmonisation amendment to Article 16. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 49 votes against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State for Cooperation! I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day - Third defensively proposed law on the business rehabilitation of the holding of Slovenian Railway D. O.O. At its 42nd extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly considered the amended draft law and did not accept any amendments. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third consideration of the proposal was included in the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Mr. Pece, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u239	Your Honors are here! I'd like to ask for a moment of your hearing. My friend Jakeych, you, too. Thank you! [[Back-up advertising.]] The meeting's still going on if you don't know that. Today, the Minister responded to some of the allegations in connection with the contractual obligations of the Slovenian Railway Holding. He promised to scrutinise or verify the situation when Slovenian railways conclude contracts over the public tender of some 100 million Slovenian tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u240	Procedural proposal, Mr. Pache, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u241	The new Minister has promised to check the matter, because the findings of the Supervisory Board find that everything is not all right. I therefore propose that we postpone the third reading of this law to the next regular meeting of the National Assembly when we know what is going on in the area of Holding. The fact is that this law makes us commit to financial debt in exchange for public debt. I think it would be very useful to wait for the findings of the internal audit, as well as the findings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the new Minister. We also entrust him with a certain part of the assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-19-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Pečet's procedural proposal: "Let's postpone consideration of this agenda item for the next meeting, for the third time." I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 9 votes against 41. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. The Government submitted the amendments to Articles 2, 12 and 13 you received on 16.4.2004. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do the Members and Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Therefore, we can move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. First, we vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are also voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 13. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, in favour of 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our fellow Member Richard Beumann has been able to expect his birthday at the meeting. Happy birthday. I am adjourning the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. by a vote on agenda item 2.
