ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Look, I'm going to have a procedural proposal and I'd like to have a little more of us in the Chamber, especially the Janc committee president here, and I'd like to ask you to postpone three minutes before we start, so the committee ends up coming to the president, there's a little more of us, and then we'd agree on how we'd work these two days to get this meeting to a successful conclusion. Thanks for understanding. We continue the meeting at 10 a.m. and 15 minutes. I will wait for colleagues and colleagues from the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to come to the big hall. We will also vote at the outset, because we will adopt a procedural proposal if we accept it in connection with the work of the National Assembly. I ask all who are in the hall to arrive at the opening of the meeting in order to enable us to make decisions. Thank you so much for understanding. In 15 minutes, we will continue with an extraordinary session, Thursday's part of the meeting. I will propose a procedural proposal, and if there is no objection, I will consider that we have agreed on a way of working today and tomorrow, such a way of working that would allow us to get things under the roof successfully. Take your seats in the hall. I think the president of the Janc committee has already suspended the meeting, so I asked him to continue the work of the National Assembly. While we are waiting for some of our colleagues from Chamber 209 and from the lobby to join us, I say that we are completing our April obligations in the framework of the meetings of the National Assembly. They're only two days ahead of us. If there aren't any surprising things, we'll practically get everything we've agreed to under the roof. European legislation will not succeed, I will say, in the interest of all parliamentary groups and without the participation of all parliamentary groups. It is now a matter of agreeing on how we will work today and tomorrow for reasons related to the scope of two subjects. One is the energy law, the other is the tax procedure. I'll propose a proposal, and you'll see if it makes sense. I think it was given by my buddy Petty Officer, and I think he's smart. We'll see if he's acceptable to the National Assembly. I don't see President Janco in the hall to confirm that. But my proposal, as a matter of fact, is to take the advice of a magician. A trifle would be to start a meeting of the National Assembly today, despite the fact that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law is not yet ready and would allow the Committee to complete its work after the end of today's meeting or before the continuation of tomorrow. Instead of considering this bill today from tomorrow's work - so we could finish early tomorrow - we could address those three laws that are indisputable and we do not expect major debates, the Law on Trade Reserves, Slovenian Development Society and Consumer Protection. Would this be acceptable to the National Assembly? I understand, yes. Then that's what we're gonna do. First, I will inform you that some colleagues will not be present today because of other obligations. These are colleagues of Chebulj, Fabjan, Germič, Jelinčič, Kangler, Peterle and colleagues of Mrzel and Širca. We're at 11. Agenda items - Proposal for a Financial Insurance Act, urgent procedure. [[Back-up advertising.]] Oh, I apologized, but you're here. There must have been a misunderstanding that is completely irrelevant to all the big ones we have in these very busy days. Financial Insurance Act, agenda item 11. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The Secretary of State is with us. Do you wish, Secretary of State, a word? Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, this is a procedural matter for the President of the National Assembly. It's a financial insurance law. The Financial Insurance Act, as set out in the first words of this recital, was drafted by the Government on the basis of a Directive of the European Union of 2002 in June 2002. This directive, which is not available in the Slovenian language, at least I could not find it otherwise than on the European Union’s websites, still in English, but refers to a process that started there in 1998. In 1998, an initiative was launched that the European Union should work towards better functioning of all financial markets within the framework of the European Union. This has also resulted in a plan which is also mentioned in the Rapporteur and in the first words of the introduction of this proposal by the government, so-called "Financial Services Action Plan" or, as they translated, "Financial Services Action Plan". Strongly complicated material that actually affects the legislation of all Member States. The process of this preparation, including the problem of insurance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u3	What's the question, Comrade Bayuk?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Yes, a question. I'm sorry, Mr President, I have to explain, because otherwise it won't be understood what this is about. It's mostly about financial material. The 8th page of this plan clearly states that this is a proposal on which the European Union has also acted. In these six years they have issued 9 reports, the latest, the 9th report, since November 2003 and it is forecasting, we are at the end, which we will suddenly do. However, Member States have been consulted throughout this period, of course through financial ministries. The question I have is, Mr President, I know that matter is complicated, but you have certainly decided, on the basis of the report you received from your services, that this proposal has been sent to the home working body, the Home Affairs Committee. I'm sure I know you'll answer me, because other committees could if they wanted to. Since we are interested in working bodies, we can also deal with this matter on the basis of our rules of procedure. However, with regard to the complexity of this matter, I would only expect, and I think it is legitimate to expect that this bill would be dealt with at least on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. If this has not been done so, then we have very many questions, unresolved questions. With all due respect to colleagues and colleagues who have dealt with this on the home labour body for internal affairs, we have not addressed certain issues that are not clear to us. We also do not understand why the government has decided that this was done at all at the Ministry of Justice. There is a lack of a more active role for the Ministry of Finance here. We do not know whether the Ministry of Finance has consulted and explained our legislation in Brussels or not. That's a very worrying thing. I would suggest very concretely that in deciding to review this proposal also the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, perhaps the Committee on the Economy because of its dimension, is a very complex matter and if this is acceptable, then I would suggest that the proceedings be discontinued at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Good. Let's go in one order. Such a procedural proposal may still be adopted in the context of or after the hearing, provided that the national assembly so considers. But first, there will be no misunderstandings or suspicion that something was wrong with the procedure. The government sent a bill under which Minister Bizjak was signed to the National Assembly. He is also Minister of the Marbles. We have decided to give the law to the competent working body, which in this case is the Internal Policy Committee. You've already answered correctly. Any other committee could declare itself interested and have a report to date. Today we will debate because the business conditions are met, opened, heard a discussion. If it turns out, as you say, Dr. Bayuk, that any questions are conceptual or otherwise so vague or require longer treatment, it can always be through a procedural proposal to postpone the decision-making to the next meeting. But I suggest that because the conditions are met, we begin the examination. There is no debate on that. I'm just asking you what you want to tell me, but there's no discussion about it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Mr. President! While we decide on this matter, I think it is my duty to remind all of you or to remind you that the fact that this is one law that came in in the last days of March that interested working bodies are so burdened that there really was no time for anyone to go into matter that is at least supposed to be outside of his field when it was indicated that this would go to the Home Affairs Committee. The human dimension must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Look, it may or may not be the right place, and I very rarely say any political position from this city, but I think I'm just summarizing a feeling that we all have. We all know that we must bring under the roof the harmonisation process in order to meet the conditions that we owe to the Treaty that we have adopted. The fact is that we have been in a hurry lately and that not all laws in the nomotechnic and not in the substantive sense will not be perfect, they may need to be rectified once they can be resuscitated in peace. Business conditions are met. That is why the government, which was very hasty, and also the very national assembly through the working bodies, made an effort. I suggest we begin our consideration of this law. We'll see if we'll run into any of the ferrets you're talking about, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. If you consider it, you have a business opportunity to say then, these ulcers are too high to allow the boat to sail peacefully into the dock with regard to the adoption of the law at this meeting and you will propose a postponement. I now give the Secretary of State the floor for introduction. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. The Council Directive on financial insurance arrangements of 6 June 2002 lays down uniform rules on the so-called secondary financial market. Member States were obliged to include this Directive in their legal order at the end of last year, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to do so until full membership. The practice of the Member States and the courts of the European Community in applying this Directive is not yet in place because it cannot be due to the short period from which it began to operate. The draft law lays down special arrangements for the conclusion and legal effects of bilateral financial insurance contracts. From the very beginning of the examination of these solutions, how to incorporate this very specific directive into the Slovenian legal order, both the Ministry of Finance and later the Ministry of Justice and, at the final stage, the Government also asked the basic systemic legal question of how to legislate this matter: whether to amend at least four system laws or to regulate the matter in a separate regulation. At the same time, the question of how to legally integrate all the arrangements in this field into our legal system of other Member States whose entities will conclude these treaties in the Republic of Slovenia was at the same time a matter of priority. The directive itself explicitly requires that national legislation should refer to the directive, which is not desirable for Slovenian nomotechnic theory and practice. The Directive is so detailed that it will have a direct effect. The profession agreed that the only way to make this matter sufficiently specific is to make a separate special provision. The proposer followed the opinion of the section and the proposal regulates all these legal relations in one place. The proposal for a law should therefore have, specifically for the purposes of this law, complex concepts which have simply not yet been defined or otherwise defined in other laws. For definitions must be so general that they encompass legal relations and the status of legal persons who are not known by our law are known only by other Member States. It is a specific unification rule, which has so far been our legislative techniques and practices abroad, but it is necessary. For example, Austrian legislation, which, according to its legislative approach and tradition, is very close to Slovenia, shows that the Austrian regulation simply copied the translation of the directive, which is still relatively late in terms of hands. The fundamental purpose of the directive is to create a single European system in the capital market segment, i.e. the secondary financial market. The secondary financial market means that securities and cash rights are being marketed. This allows for smooth and predictable regulation of contractual relations between financial institutions from different Member States. These instruments, as the directive says in its preamble, also allow Member States' central banks to regulate common monetary policy among themselves. Contracts allowing the operation of the so-called secondary financial market shall derogate from real legal contracts, in particular by excluding those provisions that expressly protect the contracting party which gives the subject to insurance. Real rights in these relationships arise in a very informal way and in general the arrangement is directed towards the protection of the party receiving the subject or the right to insurance. In addition, the borrower shall be protected, not the one taking the loan. In order to increase the protection of the lender, the directive and, consequently, the proposal of the law specifically exclude the application of certain rules of bankruptcy in these relations. The bankruptcy procedure is otherwise regulated when it comes to this type of relationship. The bankruptcy manager shall not derogate from the outstanding financial collateral contract after the insolvency proceedings have commenced if it considers that this contract is not in favour of maintaining or increasing the bankruptcy weight. This can be done for all other insurance companies. Nor does the general provisions of the bankruptcy procedure concerning the preferential payment of interest apply. Such insurance shall also apply if it is concluded on the day of bankruptcy if the creditor did not know or could not have been aware of the initiation of the proceedings. The draft law specifically regulates the area of financial insurance when all forms of securities and cash are used for insurance, in other words, the subject matter of such contracts is limited to securities. Such relationships shall also be limited with respect to parties who conclude which may enter into insurance. The Directive unconditionally requires that the legal order of a Member State should allow all financial institutions to enter into such insurance. Financial institutions are specifically qualified to perform on financial markets in general, are obliged to account for all risks posed by the financial market and are subject to the supervision of relevant supervisory institutions such as the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Securities Market Agency. The risks of serious damage or economically harmful imbalances in the lending relationship between financial institutions are relatively low, since financial institutions are both equivalent in terms of knowledge and the ability of others. At the final stage, the directive allows for the court to also assess eligibility. The draft law also allows the conclusion of such transactions to legal persons who are not financial institutions if they meet the conditions under the law on companies for large companies and if these relationships are concluded with financial institutions. The bill therefore also limits the range of persons who can make such forms of insurance to financial institutions and large companies when they conclude such relations with financial institutions. Other legal entities, i.e. medium and small companies, cannot conclude such insurance even if the other party is a financial institution. Similarly, companies, regardless of their size, cannot conclude such contracts between themselves. The Directive provides, as it is said, that a Member State may restrict the possibility of contracting. This possibility has partly benefited from the proposal. The applicant also considers that it is in the interest of establishing a secondary financial market that large companies are allowed to enter into such a relationship with financial institutions, thus allowing them to obtain cheaper loans. However, in the event that such collateral is concluded between legal persons, there remains a legitimate fear that the smaller creditors in insolvency proceedings would be disproportionately damaged as the securities placed in insurance do not enter into insolvency. We propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you for further explanation of the bill. The Internal Policy Committee considered the proposal of the law and the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Mag. Majda Potrat has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The proposal for a Financial Insurance Act was addressed by the Internal Policy Committee at its 50th emergency meeting, on 15 April. The law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a matter of urgency, and the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that this law should be dealt with in an urgent manner. The representative of the proposer gave an introductory explanation, explained the reasons for the consideration of the proposed law by emergency procedure and the objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill. The law was drafted by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. It aims to harmonise Slovenian legislation with Directive 2002/47/EC on financial insurance arrangements. The basic solutions to the draft law relate to categories of persons who may be parties to financial insurance arrangements, to the subject of insurance, where securities and other financial instruments are involved, to new definitions of concepts introduced by the scheme of the Directive, to the way in which financial insurance agreements are concluded and to the legal consequences of financial insurance arrangements are implemented. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion of the legislative and legal service, the representative of the proposer considered that the apparent irregularity of the nomotechnic approach was not justified because the drafters of the bill considered that the correct and sufficient transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order could only be done by means of a separate legal provision. They also consider that the opinion on inadequate translation of secondary legislation is not justified because it is not a literal translation of the directive, but merely a proper full implementation and transposition of the text of the Directive. To a certain extent, the proposer agreed with the legislative and legal services' comments and, on this basis, made several proposals for amendments for which he proposed to the Committee to accept them as his own. The amendments to the sixth articles were also adopted by the Committee below. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that it is a very difficult issue that the proposal for a law introduces a new category apparatus in the work of real, bond and economic law. It is therefore even more important that the proposal is clear and specific. She drew attention to a nomotechic approach. Many provisions require precision and alignment with Slovenian legal terminology and established dictions in Slovenian legal texts. The Slovenian nomotechnico would be valid and there is no need to amend it. The comments are mostly legislative and not as substantive as the legislative and legal service has not embarked on the content of the Directives. In the debate, members of the Committee stressed that the implementation of legislation, which is specific and in a variety of aspects of intervention in the areas of the Ministry of Finance, would be a good idea for the opinion of the draft law to be given by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. With regard to the nomotechnical approach, the proposaler was asked whether the directive really needed to be transposed fully into our legal order. The members of the committee stressed and asked the proposer to further substantiate the derogation from the established rules of the Slovenian acquis. The representative then added that the directive is non-typical, its nature is almost unificational and not just harmonisation, which requires accuracy from the legislator when transposing into national law and, above all, does not allow derogations from the precisely manufactured and financial market of the adapted institutes. The capital market is one of the key elements of the EU and, according to the proposaler, it is not appropriate to insist on Slovenian nomotechnics in this area. The Directive, which, according to the EU's assessment, has been vague and incompletely implemented, may also constitute a failure to fulfil its obligations and may ultimately lead to the determination of the State's liability for compensation. The relevant procedure against our country may also be initiated if the Republic of Slovenia fails to comply with the European Union rules by 1 May 2004. While the bill concerns financial entities and financial institutions, the content is clearly legal and the Internal Policy Committee is an appropriate labour body to be defined by law and proposed amendments. The members of the Committee felt that, according to the specific issue of the proposal, the proposal was significantly harder to follow the approach characteristic of our legal system and that the legislative and legal service had rightly pointed out. The majority of the members therefore considered that the proposal for a law should be supported together with the proposals for amendments to Articles 2, 3, 8, 14, 16 and 18. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report and which you have received in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you. It will be followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Dr Andre Bajuk for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! As I have already mentioned at the beginning of this debate, it is a highly complicated matter which, while in this national assembly, appears as some deu ex machina in the last four weeks. We received a report or an opinion from our legislative and legal service on 13 April, which is a good week ago, an opinion or response from the government's proposaler three days later, on the web pages of our internal system. It's one thing that we decide practically in four or five days. In fact, for such complex matter, it is also necessary to compare how long it has taken for the European Union to come to terms with such a directive. As I have already mentioned, in 1998, ministers decided that it is essential that the Commission of the European Union start working in this area and have prepared and adopted a whole year of consultations and have drawn up a plan of action for changes in the area of financial services throughout the European Union. This plan also contains a specific chapter on these financial collaterals. On this issue, ministers and authorities of all Member States had plenty of time to come to a conclusion. This conclusion was the Directive of 3 June 2002. That's basically two years ago, to be more precise, 22 months ago. And they took some time. This time they took has also been written down, and this is the last article of the directive, which states that this will enter into force on 27 December 2003. Member States had a year and a half to be able to carry this out. The question to be asked is whether our government knew about this or not. Of course she knew, of course she knew. And what do we get? We now get on the table one proposal for a law, without a directive in Slovenian, we need to look for ourselves where these things are, what they mean. And we are being opened every moment, more than you are looking at, to certain questions related to the essential dimensions of this proposal. We understand that sooner or later Slovenia will have to comply with our legislation with this Directive. However, nowhere was it explained in this proposal that there are actually options which are recorded in the directive itself and which the Slovenian Government has decided to respect only in part. She used some of them, but some of them didn't. And here are some questions. On the other hand, in the opinion of the proposer or in the opinions of the legal service on the fourth page, we see some explanation, but it is not clear. It is unclear whether this list of financial institutions is practically applicable in all Member States which have exempted certain institutions from this area, whether or not this option applies to us or not. You know, these aren't petty questions. Belgium has exempted one institution, in Denmark three, in Germany one, in Greece three, in Spain one, in France one, in Italy as well, in the Netherlands. This National Assembly does not really know whether there is any possibility of Slovenia exempting any financial institution from this scheme [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Not at all, because that's not clear. [[...]] And what's at least clear -- excuse me, Mr President, one more minute, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Try it as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u14	I'll try, yeah. However, what is least clear is that the directive gives all Member States an option, or what is primarily meant as the insurance of a contract between financial institutions, or that it also extends to other persons who may not be physically able to do so. And this is explicitly given as an option, whether the state wants it or not. Our government has decided to extend this to large companies only. But one wonders why big businesses, why not the other. Of course, there is no answer because there was no time to ask this question. We will propose - our SDS colleagues have already proposed, the Group of Members - that this part be deleted, which we will also explain when we have a little more time than the Rules of Procedure are now giving us. However, I would like to point out that there is no rationality to be presented to the National Assembly. And that's unacceptable. The government is doing this national assembly as an institution that has to automatically push buttons to accept things, and also things that the country as such has had options, and the government has decided not to use them. Without such an explanation and a clear debate, it would be irresponsible for the National Assembly to adopt this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ivan Christmas? [[No, no, ……]] Rudolf Petan has the floor for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The bill before us is supposed to be based on a Council of Europe directive on financial transactions arrangements to be implemented by Slovenia by 1.5.2004, which is until the entry into the European Union. Since this directive did not come about at the end of last year, it is therefore little incomprehensible for this speed and enforcement to be accepted by 1 May, because it is extremely sensitive matter. This criticism does not, of course, fly to the operatives who worked on this law and had to prepare and deal with many dilemmas. The Directive transposed into law is intended to enable the financial market of the Republic of Slovenia to function more effectively after entry into the European Union. The fact is that Slovenia currently has a financial market that operates according to certain specific legalities, which contains quite a few backlogs from the past, so in the SDS we support some exceptions, which are also contained in this Directive, from the rules in force in Slovenian legislation. These exemptions are intended to lead to the protection of a weaker customer in a lending relationship and to ensure equal treatment of all creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. We support such guidelines in the SDS, but we believe that the government's approach is somewhat strange. First of all, it's about motherhood. It would probably be more correct for the financial insurance home law to be in the hands of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, also with the judiciary, perhaps the economy. The same applies to the hearing in Parliament. The motherhood of an internal policy committee with such content is not normal, but it is probably not good. Colleagues have already warned that during this time period it may not have been observed that any body could reach out to an interested party. In this rush of all the tasks that need to be done, this may not even have been observed. This is all the more so because it is a specific substance, which in specific areas means a derogation from the current solutions that we have in Slovenia in this area. Unwittingly, one gets the feeling that the government is trying to hide something, is able to conceal it at its own request, or is willing to bring solutions or solutions to the EU that do not have anything in common with the EU. If the basic objective of the law is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the Directive and if the solutions relate to types of financial insurance in accordance with the Directive, it is not clear why the draft law also contained Article 2(3). The other parts of this Article clearly identify the entities and institutions covered by this Act in order to serve the objective to which it was intended and to achieve greater protection for the weaker party in the lending relationship and to ensure equal treatment of all creditors in insolvency proceedings. In other parts of the article, this is perfectly clear and also normal. No enlargement is necessary and is incomprehensible. This is particularly important today, when our financial market is turning towards some kind of disorder, all-powerful behaviour of great and complete inability to achieve the rights of the weaker in financial relations, when the various Orions, Pay Consultings, Gages and similar "haroja", but the state authorities do not do or cannot do enough to normalise the situation and that everyone is equal before the law and everyone is equally protected. Even when bankruptcy managers lend huge sums of money, creditors, especially workers, lose money. We therefore support the intentions of the law in the SDS, but without the third paragraph of Article 2. That is why we have also tabled an amendment in the parliamentary group, and we call for this amendment to be supported If this does not happen, do not blame me for taking this opportunity to draw attention to the unacceptable text of this third paragraph of Article 2, which, without this text, could also make matters worse and give a warm shelter for the new Orions and similar parties that are currently emerging in our system. The law as such, of course, has good intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic is given the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! Honorable representatives of the government. My forerunner gave a wonderful starting point. The motherhood of the working body is unclear. Whether that's true or not, I agree it's not clear. The labour force that dealt with this was an internal policy committee, so I have a clear and clear starting point on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, how we can absolutely oppose the proposal of the Financial Insurance Act, irrespective of whether it is a directive. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is our common consciousness and duty to be aware that or Slovenia will transfer the exercise of sovereignty to the European Union by amending the Constitution, i.e. the amendment of the new Article 3a, but Slovenia has never and never passed on the sovereignty of the writing of laws. We have to be united here, all 90. Second time, nomotechnics. The knowledge of law-writing has never been and will never be passed on to EU bodies. Each country uses its own way of writing laws. The law adopted by this National Assembly, we, the 90 Members, is the face, the face, I underline the third time, the face of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and is the foundation of the sovereignty of the State. Why am I saying this? Because I will prove to you concretely, not me, this is not the invention of the Slovenian National Party and Bogdan Barovic, but of the legislative and legal services which have a sovereign and legal and formal right to form laws and help us Members. This law, respected colleagues and colleagues, if you have read the opinion of the legislature, the services of victory, the provisions are unclear, conditional, they only refer to the EU directives, published, I do not know where. For example, a dictatorship in this law says: "Credit institutions are unacceptable within the meaning of a directive and are not subject to law." Do you imagine that the legal definition of this country has the term "in the sense of something"? In terms of laws, they are clear, concrete, precise. [[...]] In a sense, given that - it's not in the law. The legislative and legal service, which I respect and accept as an aid to our Members of the 1990s, not only to the Slovenian National Party, has found that the proposal for a law is a literal translation of directives, that without establishing compliance, it introduces in our legal system confusion that it is an inadequate nomotechnic approach, that it is incompatible. At the beginning of today's point, we have heard that it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, so we are dealing with it. That's not true! The Legislative and Legal Service has found that the reasons for this law are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure. Please read it, it's not consistent, it's incompatible. Derogates from the applicable rules of the legal order of Slovenia. The expression of the ambiguities I have highlighted gives general legal uncertainty and grave interference with fundamental laws, namely the real law, the bond law and the bankruptcy and liquidation law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although I spoke about this on Tuesday and asked the Secretary-General of the Government, because the government is the proponent of this law, the question of what right we are going to put such a law in the National Assembly at all, replied: "It is true that sometimes in this haste there is actually an aboriginal flaw." This was said by the Prime Minister-General to bring about aboriginal deficiencies. It's a magnetogram. And the worst part is, I still have time, but I think it does. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u19	No, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u20	I'm sorry. The worst part is that he insulted, literally insulted the legislative and legal service of this National Assembly, the Secretary-General, and insulted, colleagues and colleagues, whether we agree with the Slovenian National Party or not, we all agree on and decide on something that the legal service - yes, I conclude - has found that in eleven elements it is in absolute and complete non-compliance with Slovenian law. If you do, colleagues and colleagues, have some self within you, I don't know what it would be like to have this dealt with by the Committee on Finance, but if this was dealt with by the Committee on Internal Policy, if you have some pride, you will respect the opinions and conclusions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u21	My friend Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u22	The legislative and legal services and this law, please, as the Slovenian National Party, will not be supported. [[...]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I'll be shorter next time. Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for being so patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Law enforcement doesn't see it, but it gives its opinion. And that's what she did. I will conclude this part of the debate - the position of the Group of Members. Before we go any further, there's only one message. I inform you that Member Jožef Špindler, due to the failure of the conference voting unit at his parliamentary seat, number 66, has temporarily moved to second place, number 101, so that no one will object to his vote. I am moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the amendment tabled. Since there's only one amendment, there's no special examination. The amendment, of 21.4., of the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation to Article 2 shall be tabled to delete the third paragraph of Article 2. This is an amendment. I am opening a debate on this amendment. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. As I mentioned earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, we believe that the law as a whole would probably be acceptable, but absolutely without this third paragraph of Article 2. We believe that, if I can use this word, the source of evil in this article, where it extends certain powers, is expanding the range of financial institutions too wide, which can have very harmful and unacceptable consequences, and in particular reduces the level of security in financial relations. As I have already said in my explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group, we believe that this does not really fall within the law that Slovenia probably needs. It would be a shame, therefore, to insist on something that could destroy the entire marriage. Therefore, I appeal to you to look again at the content, what it means, and perhaps later decide whether you will reject it a priori just because we have proposed it in the opposition. So let me ask you again, look again, and then decide before you do anything. We believe that the situation in the Slovenian financial market is such that it is necessary to think a little about it and to make a sober decision. I will no longer list those irregularities, because we probably all have them full of heads, but this means that it is precisely for us to take the time and make a sober decision, regardless of the proposer. I ask you once again for your support in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 2 would like to be discussed by Dr Bayuk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group strongly supports this amendment. And I am very proud and glad that he has been put on time, so that we can have a smart debate on this matter. What exactly is the matter with this marriage? In particular, this law and the whole directive are aimed at relations between financial institutions. It's about banks, it's about credit-deposit services, it's about actors who are, I'd say, really at home in this area. However, and you can read this in its entirety in Article 2, paragraph 3 opens up the possibility for other actors, i.e. for entities, i.e. "other legal persons meeting the criteria laid down in the law". This also means for legal persons who are not financial institutions. Of course, this is based on a directive. When we look at the directive, in addition to all these financial institutions, which are detailed and have also been included in our law, there is another paragraph which opens up the possibility for persons who are not natural persons, whether they are companies or "partnership", I do not know what they would call it, ours have not translated it well, but the possibility of opening it to others. What does it say next? In the following sentences, however, the directive states that this extension is an option - an option that Member States have to use or not. If I'm properly informed, colleagues who were meeting the working body were also asking about this. The argument was: yes, because most other countries allow these transactions to be concluded for certain companies, we do not know which ones, this is interesting, we do not know which ones will then be less competitive with them. Again, there is a general claim which is not substantiated in this national assembly. It is interesting, however, that when the European Commission opens up this possibility in its directive to extend this to certain persons other than financial institutions, as mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, the only thing it requires from countries is for them to tell the Commission. That's all. There's no need to explain. It clearly states here that if this option is used, Member States should inform the Commission and it will inform the other Member States. However, we have an argument from the proposaler that most other countries have done so. Is it really the majority? Which one? Which one isn't? Why don't we get the National Assembly before you decide, because, you know, I don't know what we're talking about, because it's already decided, we're gonna press the button, no matter what we say. That's right. It's sad. This is not a national assembly, it is a machine that accepts any proposal coming from the government, regardless of when it was presented, how it was written, whether it was translated correctly or not. Yeah, that's right! But only for a magnetogram, if not for another. Our proponent, the government, doesn't tell us which countries have used this option. It claims that most yes and then if we do not, our companies will be in an uncompetitive position. Now, if we accept their argument that they will be in an uncompetitive situation, then let us ask ourselves why they care only about some companies. If the Government's argument is that we must accept this extension on behalf of the competitiveness of our companies, then I demand an argument from the government about why they are only concerned by large companies in Slovenia. And I'm worried about others. Yeah, where did that concept come from? Please, you always refer to, I don't know what expertise. How does this concept of the rating of one company depend on its size? Where is the argument here, and why does our government only care about large companies? Dear colleagues, the ones you're still listening to, I'd like to tell you this. If this third paragraph of Article 2 is deleted, we will only use the temporary option given by the Directive itself. Then we will be able to take the time that we need before we decide to make such decisions, such arguments that we will have a reasonable understanding of who we are supporting, who we are opening the door to, and who we are knowingly closing the door to. And I am concerned, and I am concerned that the government always decides for the benefit of large companies, but forgets them systematically in the name of competitiveness in the medium and the small. Before this national assembly decides and applies the option that the directive itself gives, why not have some serious analysis on the table? What does this mean for our companies, for small, for large and for medium? In order not to know which Member States of the European Union actually used this option and why. Don't you think that's rational? How rational! It is not rational, however, what will certainly happen is that we will press these buttons again without any discussion and without a rational basis. And that's unacceptable. When, Mr President, at the beginning of this debate, I asked the President of the National Assembly to move on, it was precisely for this reason, because we are going to decide on one thing that the directive does not require me to repeat, the directive is not required. We will fall back on certain arguments that always scare us by the fact that the European Union will fail if we do not press certain buttons. The Directive does not require that. We can decide to take the time to extend these financial insurance schemes to other persons who do not act in the financial field as set out in the first part of this Article, and that before we go and open or close the door to certain undertakings, we know before we make a decision. That is why, once again, there will be no doubt, the European Directive does not require the third paragraph of Article 2; it does not require this; it is an option for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has consciously decided and proposes to this national council to adopt it without argument and to protect it again and only care about the competitiveness of the large companies of the Republic of Slovenia. This is totally unacceptable for us in New Slovenia and the entire coalition Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Sybil Svilan, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting from the honourable Member and Members of Parliament. This law is a rather complex issue and it is obvious that, after what we have heard from the debate, it is still possible to understand that there are some misunderstandings as to what this law actually governs. The Ministry of Finance is a co-proposer of this law, together with the Ministry and Justice, and has carried out a number of analyses in the preparation of this law, and has also drawn professionally, in particular legally, to facilitate its work and to prepare legislation in accordance with the problems encountered in the implementation of this Directive. Before I define myself before the amendment, I would like to provide just a few more clarifications that may help clarify some misunderstandings. First, with regard to the financial services action plan in Europe, which, of course, has been under way for four years, it should be said that this action plan has some 42 directives or legislative provisions regulating the whole of the financial market in Europe and thus seeking to achieve the deepening of this market, market unity and other advantages that operators in this market could thus achieve. One of these options is the financial insurance covered by this law. Financial insurance is essentially a multi-area issue because of its specific situation. However, it must be said that, after what it refers to, this is of course a matter relating to financial and other entities, not only financial entities. However, the content of this is clearly legal, since it regulates several legal areas, bonds, real and solvency law and other law. Accordingly, all these laws should be changed, and the legal profession in our country has decided that this should be better regulated by one law. Therefore, the proposal for this law is also uniform and it is proposed to amend those provisions that are urgently necessary in order to implement the Directive. In doing so, I would like to explain why the directive is directly applicable - because, of course, after 1 May, it is possible because it is becoming the legal order of the European Union in one way or another. Indeed, in our legal order, where the financial market is not as deep and developed as it is in Europe, we do not have all the institutions and all the instruments used to develop the European financial market. Therefore, we cannot always rely solely on our laws and our legislation and are forced to use foreign terms. That's right, let's say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Mr State Secretary, please try to respond to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u30	I just wanted to explain why these things are so designed. Maybe just one more item, and then I'll go back to the article, if you don't mind, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it's about who this law refers to. The law applies essentially to financial and other entities that use financial collateral on financial markets. These entities are usually entities with three categories as laid down in the Directive. These are supervised entities, i.e. if I am specific, financial entities such as banks, insurance undertakings, investment companies controlled by certain supervisory authorities, on the one hand, and on the other hand other entities other than supervised entities. Therefore, there may also be three categories of relations, only between supervised entities, between banks, for example, and insurance undertakings, or others, between supervised entities and unsupervised entities, and for the third time between unsupervised entities. And this is where we come up with why the government has decided to make this decision that is here. In fact, the directive requires this Directive to apply to supervised entities, saying that banks, insurance companies and others that use this form of financial insurance in their operations, thereby facilitating this work, deepening the market, further developing this market, both at home and abroad. That is why we have adopted this matter as the only basic and necessary thing in marriage. The other two options given and discussed are a matter of country-specific judgement. Comparatively, most countries in Europe have settled this issue by using it for two other possible entities, not all. According to our estimates and analyses, it was the government's decision to propose that, at this stage and in view of the still partial underdevelopment of our financial market, only large financial entities, which are also financial institutional investors in the financial market, should be used. In this regard, it is important to protect it. In order to emphasise, the law protects the lenders in particular and facilitates their work in obtaining back the credits and other financial resources they put into use. This is how we thought and assumed that this is essential for our financial operators to be able to participate in international financial operations. Most important is the central bank, according to Banka Slovenije using these instruments already in the so-called REPO market. This is a market for the sale of securities with the right of further redemption, and in this context this bank must also have this opportunity in Europe to operate with other central banks of Europe and with the European Central Bank. Another example of why this would also be defined for companies of larger enterprises, as provided for by the Company Act, is that they also rent loans abroad, in foreign banks, in foreign financial institutions, and this is another relationship between supervised and unsupervised entities. In this case, they gain the possibility of obtaining credits in an easier way, transaction costs are reduced and security is also increased for those who lend these loans. Accordingly, our companies have the opportunity to obtain loans that they could not otherwise have, because our legal order does not allow such a form of insurance and, for example, they should only obtain mortgage protection or similar matters. Accordingly, the Government has also decided on this second option, which the Directive provides. On the basis of this, we cannot accept the amendment that has been tabled, because in our case this would mean that our operators, large economic operators and companies are in an unequal position with other European entities which have this possibility. As we say, most countries in Europe use this option, secondly, for a third option, where there are uncontrolled entities among themselves, we have ruled out this because it is considered that the development of our financial market is not large enough to allow other entities to use it, and this could also have an impact on the bankruptcy and other procedures that might arise. So much for a little bit about it. However, if any further clarification is to be made, we are ready, given that the government has really gone into this law. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you very much. It is true that the Secretary of State has mentioned that the overall financial plan is very extensive. In fact, it contains 36 directives, of which this annex, which was issued by the European Commission on 25 November 2003, is the number 12, which is said to be a very broad issue. That's what we all understand. It's a big deal. But in this broad matter in this broad plan, this is one part, one piece that is being prepared five years ago, which was the subject of the directive 22 months ago, when everyone knew, not just the Member States, but also the candidate Member States, that is, our government, that it will have to do so, if by no time in December 2003, at the latest when we enter the European Union. That's a fact. So your answer does not really explain what you have been doing all this time to come up with a proposal today that this national assembly should decide within a few hours on the matter of motherhood, which has been the subject of discussions for almost six years in the European Union. But let us go to the concrete question that I have raised to the government and the SDS proposal and this amendment, which is currently under consideration. The Secretary of State has not answered the question why the government has decided, that is to say - for the first time, to admit, let us begin at the beginning. For the first time, the government admits that, in fact, it has now decided on one thing for which it is - it is not necessary, it is said, not part of the requirement. It's an option. An option they have now set and decided in one particular way. This particular way, which we don't even know how special it is. Other Member States may have also decided to open these options only for large companies. We don't know. The government doesn't report that to us. However, we may find a report on some websites, and we will know, but of course it will be too late because this law will be passed. Well, we don't know, and the government won't tell us. He's only telling us what's written down. And what is written down is that she has decided to introduce also one part of this directive, which is not necessary now, in order to protect certain companies. There will be a question: why not all - there is no answer for now, perhaps now the answer will come, but I would like it in any way, as it is appropriate for such things, must be an analysis, must be written down, not a conversation; we are in the national assembly, not at the bar. Therefore, the argumented debate is not yet possible because these elements are not yet available. I would like to point out, however, that the New Slovenia Group does not oppose this article. It is very possible that this will have to be introduced, and I am sure that our colleagues in the SDS would also be in favour of this if we once understood and actually knew what the government is proposing to us. As long as we do not know, however, we propose that this should be deleted because the third paragraph of Article 2 is not to be adopted by 1 May. This was just so proposed to the National Assembly, without any explanation whatsoever, that this is really an option, but I suggest that we take the time to really understand what this is about and open the door. Because I have to tell you this, but I'm going to share with you one piece of information that I just got without looking for them, but it's already leaking to me. And it was leaking that this is the demand of one company, our company, to demand one company. And of course, our government is wooding, and it's trying to please this gentleman. I understand no objection, not to Mercator, not to a good neighbor or a bad neighbor. Their success is predictable, and I look forward to it. But when we make decisions about these things, we need to know that when we open doors to just some, we actually close doors to others. Why is that? I've never heard that argument before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u34	If you only allow an additional explanation of what has been said. For the first time, as you know, we as Slovenia were not able to participate in all the preparations and discussions under the FSAP, this is said to be this action plan, because it was not until last year that we joined these committees as observers. Accordingly, it is of course important to say that this Directive has been implemented or should not be mandatory for other members until the end of 2003. Therefore, other members have not implemented this legal order until last year. And as I said, most of these members have also used these options - why? - because it does not protect anyone, but essentially allows certain legal entities to be better financed on the international market, and thus, of course, our financial companies and other companies. Therefore, the purpose of this law is not to close the possibility for our companies, in addition to financial entities, which, in any case - to obtain financial resources that are more favourable, but not to obtain, in such a way that, when they have only domestic legislation in terms of financial insurance, only credits that are so much more expensive than those used by all European countries. However, the following can be said. The law regulates this matter or allows the use of these instruments and this difference as special options is not required. Which means that financial and other entities can still agree contractually to apply Slovenian law to the existing extent, and this can then apply. In short, we are trying to make this law possible for Slovenian financial and other economic operators - and we have decided primarily for large entities because we believe that those who lease largely abroad [[Some of these are also dealt with in the National Assembly]] - and they'll make this easy. Accordingly, our view is that the law helps to improve the development of the financial market in Slovenia and the deepening of this market and the movement towards the European financial market. We therefore propose that the law be adopted in this form, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Two discussions, colleague Petn, and colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I think this debate is good, but so far I have not heard anything that would lead me to believe that the amendment we tabled in the parliamentary group would not be necessary. The Slovenian proverb says that speed has never been good for serious work, especially if it can have long-term consequences. I do not condemn these representatives, as I said earlier, who are here today and who are the operatives of this law, but who were given the task when they received it and had to carry it out. So we have to clear this up first. Critics fly to the government when it has decided to put this law into action and that the preparatory process will begin. This is about something else. Now this speed - I can't get rid of feeling because this keeps repeating to us that at this speed, when we want something good, we bring in a bunch of ballast through the door, but not just ballast, if it were just ballast, it would still work, but we also have a bunch of things that are consciously timed in that way and then we bring them through, and then unfortunately we find that we have a bunch of problems. And then we show them right now, here, see, that's because the legislation is bad, we can't prosecute them, we can't even get the data, we can't get the data, but it's accepted in the National Assembly. This is then the final conclusion of all such and similar cases. This argument, too, is that the option that is possible in Europe - I agree with that. We've just taken some of what's possible, but it's not mandatory. However, there is something very different about us, as it is elsewhere in Europe, I do not know, Austria, Italy, Germany, to mention these old countries of the European Union, I think this expression is true. Indeed, there is a normal financial market in Europe, and other markets have a completely normal, where control also works well. We don't have normal, broken normal control. Because if there is nothing else, then we find out that the law does not allow us to intervene. But if we already have all this, then we find out that the data confidentiality law obliges us to do nothing. That is to say, we do not have a normal market and that is why we must behave a little differently at this point - at this point in time - and we must give maximum fuses and introduce the concept of 'big business', this is not yet a guarantee of some normal security in financial relations, no guarantee is there. We have controlled institutions, and we still have problems there, we still have problems there, because then we hear the National Bank say, because of that, and that's why we couldn't transmit this data. I'm not going to list the institutions where this was called. These were various loans, various similar institutions, where commentants went to tins when the National Bank had long known everything. That's exactly what I'm trying to tell you. A big company can get in trouble, too. And I'm sure that such an approach would or would ever be possible later, maybe next year, we don't know. If things change so much with us that the situation in the financial market will be so much better, then this will certainly be possible. At this stage, however, such an approach is certainly a beautiful breeding ground for the new Orions, and there are various other incompetences, irregularities or swine fevers - however you want me to define it, if the dictates of this Article remain with this third paragraph as they are now. Once again, perhaps the next year will be such a situation for us, such a situation would be such that it would be very appropriate. But right now, it's not. I agree, however, that such a thing is likely to be appropriate for Austria and for these old countries of the European Union. For us who are in a different situation - I will not say that, by our own fault, we have had the situations we had. Some things are still being regulated, implemented in our legislation and we are just learning. Now we don't have to be here in this financial area when we have a bunch of samples right now, and we don't have to start and fly to Europe with everything that Europe already has. We're not used to all things yet, we're going to have to learn a lot, take a lot of things, change them in our heads, and lay the groundwork for things to develop normally. The financial market currently lacks such a basis. I hope I won't have to list again, I don't know, those ten or fifteen names that mark all the irregularities in this financial market, and I'm not going to do it now. I hope I've made myself clear. And on the contrary, we have tabled this amendment because of our specific situation. I haven't heard it before, either, if everyone else really has it so arranged. I don't think they do, but if they do, I did mention that this is possible in these countries, where these things have long been arranged and adapted to them. We adapt to them, not to us. And that's why this fear is so. I repeat, and to finish, but I will not be disturbed if we accept this amendment, and then perhaps we will change the second year, and we will give this option if, of course, the situation becomes positive for us, that this is possible and otherwise, it is a little less speed, but safer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u37	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President, again. In conjunction with Article 2 and the amendment tabled for the good and for the good of the 90 members of this National Assembly, see, the home labour force was an internal policy committee. Now, perhaps I will lie for half an hour, if we no longer talk about financial content and the expert from the Ministry of Finance is responsible, it means that the argument that it is not even clear to which home committee this directive should belong and speak about. That is why we, because we have talked about this mother working body for internal policy, have 'disputed' and will 'dispute' the sovereignty that Slovenia maintains, and the translation of the directive, which is invalid for Slovenian law. The debate is proof that this belongs to the parent working body because the content is financial. And please, colleagues and colleagues, we are a national assembly that is supposed to talk seriously about the content of laws and then confirm them and these laws should apply to the whole country. Please consider once again, or it is not wiser to do something for the good and benefit of the name of all Members and the National Assembly, that this law goes into consideration at the competent financial authority, to legal and formalise and then to adopt it with some delay. I know the answer. There may be some, as we have been told, lawsuits and compensation claims and so on. Once again: the directive is not the one that is binding, I have asked legal experts, the objective is to commit and the aim is to translate this regulation into Slovenian legislation, not the other way around, not translate Slovenian legislation and transpose it into European Directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u39	My friend Dr. Bayuk wants a word. He's quitting. Look, about the procedural issues I have already explained, it was assigned to the Internal Policy Committee, mag. Bizjak, the Minister of Justice was first signed under a document, but any other body could be declared interested if it wanted to, not so. Well, it's okay. Today's discussion is under way, the conditions have been met. We will vote, and if the vote shows that the law does not enjoy support, of course we will withdraw the sequences. Is there anything else you'd like to add to the Secretary of State? Please. Now I'm going to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Mr President, I just want to say two more things. First, in fact, we are joining Europe in this way when we introduce this law, which allows Slovenian entities certain opportunities that have not been afforded to them so far. In this way, of course, Slovenian company financing is also moving into a European way, and in this regard, of course, our view is that the rejection of this law would put our entities in a subordinate position. However, in view of the fact that we do not take small businesses into account, the debate has already made it clear that these companies are not developed in Slovenia, of course, so that all these entities can be used because large companies in Slovenia mainly use securities and trade with them, and therefore our decision was to limit only this entity to a substantial consideration. Our entities will be in a subordinate position compared to others if the directive is not implemented and the state is also responsible, of course, for compensation if foreign entities are unable to apply it and benefit from it in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Excuse me, Mr. President, but I have to take this. The State Secretary's claims, the last one, if we do not accept this, will be that the state will answer criminally, just simply not! Because the third paragraph of Article 2 is an option, Mr Secretary of State, is an option! This is not what you wanted to say in the proposal, and today, in the last presentation, but you've moved on again. And you're running this national council in some direction, some decision based on an argument that doesn't hold. The only thing this amendment does is that until the reasoned proposal comes, it does not apply the possibility of extending to other persons other than financial institutions. That's all. That's all. But that's not enough for you either. However, you did not argue in your presentation why you decided to do so, because by saying "we believe that" or "we think that" - yes, nice to think, but your thought in this national council is not sufficient for a decision; it must be reasoned and also presented, periodically presented for a responsible decision. I am sure that the National Assembly will make the wrong decision if it does not now decide that it will deliberately and objectively consider extending all these provisions to other companies other than financial institutions, when we have sufficient reason to do so. However, I agree with my colleague Petan that, when we decide on these things, we still have to have a way to face the fact that unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues, our capital market is not as European as it seems, even though they are not there, I do not know how virginally clean. However, the irregularities, the lack of supervision and all that is happening in our capital market, we all know that the shortcomings are enormous, and this is what the president of the securities market surveillance agency on the home labour market has already presented. There are suggestions on how we will deal with this, but we cannot deal with them yet. So, these are the facts. We know very well that this is not yet Europe, that we are only trying to create this. Let's take time where the directive allows us, just there. And the directive allows us to do that. It is not necessary for us today to adopt the third paragraph of Article 2; we can do so later, based on a proper analysis and some reasoned debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u43	I think it's best for the State Assembly to decide by vote. I'll give my word to my colleague Barovic first, and then we'll go to the vote. And I'm asking my colleagues to take their seats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, now I will be on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf - allow me, this is a slight replica of your thought - placed in defense also of the Committee on Finance. We are in such a hurry, we are so crazy that I know that the Committee on Finance, which is homely and competent in my opinion, would also give consideration to the translation of this Directive and its contents. But they don't "fall" from day to day because we're in such a hurry and we're in such a hurry, they can't! They can't even write magnetograms. And I think that's why we sign, I don't know, the Minister of Justice and put on some committee that we've all now clearly and loudly found that he's not competent - for the first time. And secondly, that the legal system is so bad, I warn you again, please. We have heard twice today that business regulations have been fulfilled. Please read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The explanation is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I stress that this is stated in the report of the Legal and Legislative Service. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please once again, let us be smart, let us be reasonable, and let us not accept anything that is legal and substantive fiasco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Anyone else want a word? The National Assembly will now decide on the amendment to Article 2. It is submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The proposal is to delete the third paragraph. Voice explanation, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, despite all the harassment, who is now native, I think we have had a relatively correct debate, but I think that what we have heard from the Secretary of State with the finances last time, but I think it has gone a little beyond that and it is a certain deception. I also accept this dictatorship that our entities could be in a worse position with the rest of Europe if we did not adopt the law. However, we have also heard that this option is an option with large companies referred to in the third paragraph of Article 2. This is said, and this is not necessary and the EU does not require this in its directive, which means that we do not need it either. That is to say, in general, we will satisfy those basic requirements required by the directive from, say, entities operating on this market, but the rest can also wait, I don't know, half a year, one year or two years and therefore the claim, which is already based on deception and blackmail, if it isn't, then the whole matter will be critical. That's not true. And that's why I stopped by. The law - yes, we will support it, but without what is an option, as an option for the EU. This is exactly the third paragraph of Article 2. And that is why we propose that this should be deleted at this point because we are not yet, I will say, at a level of standards in the financial market such as the EU. But when we do, we can accept it, and we will support it. For the time being, this is not necessary when our thinking will be like this and when we mature so that we can accept it, and then fine. That's why I said "progress." And once again, it's not true that this amendment will cause us any trouble if there is no law. That's okay, we accept that, and that's why you could take a step back and admit it, and probably everyone would be satisfied and they could adopt this law under the roof without any problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, the government no longer has the right to speak. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 2, which proposes that the third paragraph of this Article be deleted. We're voting. It's not working. No, no. He doesn't work for me either. I mean, let me explain. It's not a technical device, everything else works normally. Just a minute. Look, the computer's tired, too. They'll take care of it. I'll see what's wrong with the technique and we'll continue in five minutes. Five minutes to break, so we can figure out what's wrong with the computer. We need to reset the entire computer system. I suggest we use this as lunch time. We're gonna take a break, so we're gonna have lunch. We'll meet at half past six.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u48	Let me tell you, it's 12:37. At 12:40, we'll be back to work. [[Back-up advertising.]] Look, we need to reset the computer system. Earlier, one of my colleagues, who I'm not going to name, said that I broke the computer system because I was hungry, and I wanted to have lunch. Let me assure you that, like most others, I am full of everything, so I would also like to do the work as soon as possible and conclude the meeting. Three more minutes to get the staff from the technical service [[...]] Mag. Jermol informs me that everything is fine and that the National Assembly can decide. The computer is reset, allowing voting devices to determine the political will in individual decisions. We are in the process of considering the proposal for a financial insurance law, which we are dealing with as a matter of urgency. We are ahead of the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled under Article 2 to delete the third paragraph. Let me remind you that the explanations of vote are behind us and that we are now just deciding. Now I ask you kindly if anyone can find out that the voting device is working, which means the light is on fire. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices? We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. [[Back-up advertising.]] It's not working? Good. My colleague warned me early enough that the device wasn't working, which I'm gonna take into account. We will repeat this vote. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 2. 59 in attendance, 18 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has been rejected. The computer system's fine. That way we can move on to the third reading. In the second reading, no draft amendment was adopted, so it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading. We're moving on to a decision on the law. I am not informed either by the Government or by the legal and legislative service that the text would be uncoordinated. Vote explanation, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Thank you. Once again, fellow Members and colleagues, please be aware that if they vote in favour of this law, they will support what Slovenia has never done and will never do, namely, pass on the sovereignty of the writing of laws to the European Union. This Slovenia is not and will never transfer it there. That's what you'll confirm. The Slovenian national party has established such a claim on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, not on its own political or pre-election campaign, in order to make it clear to you, overall, clearly. That's what the lawyers wrote, that's what the lawyers, those who work and help all the 90's of us. The Slovenian national party will not give this sovereignty and will respect the Constitution in the European Union. You, if you vote to adopt this law, you did. You're going to make it unconstitutional and illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u50	Comrade Petan. But our young friends at the gallery, please be quiet and do not disturb the work. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Clearly, then, this law, which, of course, is a professional law, is no longer professional, but it has apparently become political. Because when we didn't vote on this amendment, it became obvious. I think that I have explained clearly before and patiently enough what this is about, that it is not a policy to delete this paragraph, paragraph 3, of Article 2, but obviously all the arguments count nothing, we are counting only on the political side. I have already warned, and I will once again say that we will not be surprised when we find again in a while that we have made an even better breeding ground in the various Orions and similar inequities that appear to us and then that it will not be said that Parliament has voted. Figo voted, the ruling majority voted, and so decided politically! And for this we will not support, we cannot support, despite the fact that the rest of the text is good and we would be supportive of the law, but we cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u53	On behalf of the Group of Members, I ask three minutes. Above all, we will vote against this law, as a symbolic act, not only because of the procedure and how the government has had the opportunity to present it and make it smart, but mainly because a large majority has decided not to support the amendment that would draw this proposal from the government in Article 2, paragraph 3, for which we have an option. This is not on behalf of Europe, it is on behalf of special interests in Slovenia, in a way that actually opens up opportunities that can be very, very questionable for our Slovenian people. In particular, it is a provision which prevents the bankruptcy manager from withdrawing from the default financial insurance contract after the insolvency proceedings have commenced if it considers that this contract is not in favour of maintaining or increasing the bankruptcy weight. This represents an important exception to the law on forced settlement and liquidation - Article 121 - and may result in a further reduction in bankruptcy even after the insolvency proceedings have begun. This, among financial institutions, I can understand that this only extends to some companies, without any argument, but not to others. For example, if we have bankruptcy proceedings against the insolvency debtor and it has at the moment 100 securities to be drawn up by the insolvency procedure in accordance with the legal rules of the insolvency procedure with the exchange rate. On the same day, it can conclude a financial insurance contract with a person, for example, a bank in Finland that could not have known about the bankruptcy procedure - and this is now a crucial thing - because it is a Finnish bank and was concluded remotely. Under this contract, this Mr. x then undertakes to establish a 50-security lien for the benefit of the Finnish bank and, if the currency exchange is to increase the value of the claim in the future, to establish a standing right on the other securities so that their value corresponds to the value of the claim. Under this law, after you have now adopted, such a contract is valid and the bankruptcy manager must not derogate from it. For example, it will have to establish a flag right for example for 25 additional securities, from which the Finnish bank will be able to pay as a priority. In this way, only 25 securities will remain in bankruptcy, while under the rules in force so far, all 100 will remain. Other creditors who are not protected by the provisions of this law will be paid substantially less out of bankruptcy. To extend this right to private companies and only large companies [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It doesn't make any sense. [[...]] Gentlemen, you're making a mistake. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to explain my vote in support of this arrangement for the following reasons. The Republic of Slovenia must transpose the Directive into its national legal order by 1 May 2004. There are two reasons. Because Slovenians and Slovenians decided at the referendum that the Republic of Slovenia wants and, of course, becomes a full member of the family of nations within the EU on 1 May. This, of course, also allows us to adopt certain rules of the game. And these rules of the game are also in part in the form of directives; directives where we can harmonise our legal order somewhere on the one hand, and in this case experts on the Internal Policy Committee have explained to us that in this case it is a non-typical directive, that its nature is almost unificational and not just harmonisation, which we, the Slovenian legislator, require us to be particularly precise when transposing into national legislation and in some way not to allow derogations from the precisely designed and financial market of the adapted institutions. The practices of the EU Member States, when examined, have also shown us exactly the same or the same image. By welcoming honourable Members and Members, all of us who, in our words, welcome our country's entry into the family of countries within the EU - with words of greeting - are some of the actions that we must do, and it is precisely because of the nature of this directive that this is an act of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Under this concept of compliance with European legislation, different goods are sold. Everything that, you know, is admitted here, it certainly isn't, we've seen it in previous laws. This does not bind us, Mrs. Krebs, to such a solution, this is a solution you have in mind. It is our duty not to discriminate and not to make any preemptions, a preference for someone who has severely abused our Parliament in the back. This is something you should be most aware of. And this Europe does not require such a solution from us - no, absolutely not, it is perceiving. As in the case of capital gains, it was the same as 10% or not, if you are the owner, it is not necessary, we know what was behind such an initiative, no European directive, but under these directives and harmonisation you bring a lot more, which is related to some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Don't argue with the previous debater, because she can't replicate, I can't say a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Mr President, I can use a lot to explain my arguments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u60	But don't refer to your colleagues because I can't give them a word for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u61	In order to explain to you now that I will vote against this law and these are the reasons why I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Good. Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? Nobody. Then please check your voting devices. We'll move on to the law. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? Then we decide on the law. 58 present, 39 to and 17 to [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 17.]] The law has been passed. Agenda item closed. Let's move on to our agenda. 12. Point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Aid. I invite government representatives to come to the hall. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Who will present the law by the government? Please. You have the floor, Mr. Starman, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Free Aid Act is to bring the provisions of the current law on free legal assistance into line with the Council Directive of January 2003 on improving access to courts in cross-border disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal assistance on such disputes. In order to legislate this Directive, the proposer added to existing Law 10.a a chapter dealing with both domestic cross-border disputes and foreign cross-border disputes. In addition, it addressed certain minor shortcomings in existing legislation and, with other amendments, regulated the scope of free legal aid and certain questions relating to the choice of an operator. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u64	Thank you for the additional explanation. The Internal Policy Committee considered the draft law to be a parent labour force [[report you've all received]] . The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič as the first to receive the word - a, this will be done by Majda Zupan, who has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free legal assistance also constitutes the implementation of the 2003 Directive to improve access to court in cross-border disputes by establishing minimum common rules and, on the other hand, addressing certain shortcomings that have proved to be in practice. Our country, as a legal and social state, which stems from the Constitution, is obliged to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens, regardless of their property or social status, to exercise the right to judicial protection and the right to a remedy. This area is governed by the Free Legal Aid Act, which entered into force in September 2001. The beneficiaries of free legal aid shall be provided with funds to cover the costs and the exemption of the costs of the judicial procedure in relation to the social situation of a person who, without prejudice to his or her survival and the survival of his or her family, could not exercise that right. The aim of the Directive is to improve access to court in cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters, so that Member States of the European Union must provide legal assistance to persons who, because of their economic situation, are partially or entirely unable to cover the costs of the procedure. Data show that funds for free legal aid are increasing. For 2004, 125 million were budgeted for this purpose and 128 million for 2005 but more spending has already taken place in the first months of this year, as is also known in the financial management of the courts. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that there is a need for a law amendment to comply with the provisions of the Directive in order to improve access to courts in cross-border disputes. We also believe that this needs to be duly taken into account when adopting the budget and that an appropriate amount should be provided in the free legal aid item in the courts so that it does not become part of the financial resources for other court operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Private Cheligoy has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable Government Representative! Free legal aid has been well received from people since the enactment of the law enabling such assistance. This is also indicated by the information that many people turn to such organised assistance for legal advice and other legal options offered by the law. They shall assign civil and legal matters, such as divorces, the allocation of children, the sharing of common assets and the determination or recovery of dependents, and shall immediately be followed by hereditary matters. It is clear from this that such aid is justified and that its integrity would lead to a number of setbacks, especially for those who want a legal act, such as divorce or the granting of children, and because of the unfavourable financial situation, they are also in a worse position than their partner. In Slovenia, according to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, persons authorised to carry out activities without financial assistance are currently 11. Free legal aid is thus granted to residents living in areas of Ljubljana, Cyprus, Kranj, Krk and Slovenia, while other residents are discriminated against in comparison. This is also discussed by one of the authorised organisations operating in this area, namely that only 40% of the parties from Ljubljana are from around and far away. The situation is particularly worrying if we think that these are people who are gaining the right to free legal advice for financial reasons and certainly cannot afford a long way to the first lawyer to offer them such assistance. Not only are there many older people among them who must face additional problems when they want legal aid. There must be a lot of young people among them who have not yet found a job and therefore cannot afford expensive lawyers. We adopt a new law on free legal aid primarily to harmonise the existing directive of the European Union, which improves access to court in cross-border disputes, to persons without sufficient resources, by establishing minimum common rules on legal assistance in such disputes. Citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals residing in a Member State of the European Union must be offered free legal aid without distinction and the costs shall be shared between the two countries, that is, the country in which the applicant resides and the country in which someone requests legal assistance. The provision of free legal aid is a reflection of the fundamental constitutional principle of the rule of law and the social state, which also means ensuring equal opportunities for the realization of the rights of all citizens, irrespective of property or social status. The establishment of a network for free legal advice throughout Slovenia will certainly help to fully implement this principle, as well as the principles of equality, one of the most important legal values, including the fact that the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia in this context, particularly its procedural part, is slowly but reliably changing. Because in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law contributes to the social equality of people, which is particularly advocated by our Group of Members, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on free legal aid, following an urgent procedure. According to the government, this prevents difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, as the proposed amendments to the Slovenian legal order take over the provisions of Directive 2002/8 to improve access to courts in domestic and cross-border civil disputes and thus establish minimum common standards and rules on legal assistance in such disputes. Law on free legal aid [[was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 21 May 2001]] may grant free legal aid for legal advice, for legal representation and for other legal services, for all forms of judicial protection before all courts and from all bodies responsible for the extrajudicial settlement of disputes, and for the exemption of payment of the costs of judicial proceedings, as well as for proceedings before international courts or arbitration. It is important to know that the beneficiaries of free legal assistance are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, foreigners with a permanent and temporary residence permit, other foreigners under conditions of reciprocity or under conditions and in cases established by international treaties, NGOs and associations operating in a non-profit and public interest and other persons. So the starting point is primarily non-profit. A person entitled to free legal aid may apply for such assistance at any stage of the procedure. In deciding on the application for free legal assistance, the financial position of the applicant and other relevant conditions laid down by law shall be determined, except for those persons who, by a decision of the competent authority, can prove that they receive or are in a family, either because of the health status of the applicant or because of the exceptional financial obligations imposed on the applicant or for other reasons requiring serious material threats to the individual and to the individual. It is important to point out that on 1.1.1995, the legislation obliged the courts to provide urgent legal assistance and compulsory assistance in other cases to socially disadvantaged citizens who were clearly unable to pay the costs of a lawyer or other legal service. Clearly, the Institute of Legal Assistance and Counseling is not new, as it has been completely domesticated that trade unions have done so in the past and are also doing so, as well as some other organisations; this has been a stable form of labour for trade unions even in a period when we have not been a single, sovereign state. Unfortunately, after 1995, the legislation in force no longer contained a free legal aid institution. However, since the need for free legal aid has proved to be very large, in Ljubljana, for example, the councillors decided that we should make legal advice for the socially weak members and equal access to legal security for all citizens, regardless of the material situation - what Mr Čeligoj also said about the differences between Ljubljana and other places. It is good to know that in Ljubljana, for example, we held a public competition and had two lawyers during the period when there was no law. And during this period, he also worked in this area as a legal and information centre of NGOs, which in fact also gained a lot of experience in this area. I wouldn't lose words, we've found so many times that the biggest problem of this institute is the fact that not enough people even know it exists. However, those who know do not have enough knowledge or knowledge of how or how they can use it. In general, we have already found that little information is available in the public, especially in the part of the public that is most in need, since the fact that much is posted on the Internet about this institution does not mean much for those people who need it. Those who need this help do not mean much or even the knowledge that they would be given through other media is not enough. That's why every behavior is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on this activity and on this assistance welcome as well as today's amendments to the provisions of this Act also constitute some way of informing the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We have another position, and then we will move on to the vote. I also give the floor to Saša Pečeta for the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the basic law does not significantly affect the basic material adopted in this 2001 National Assembly. It is worth noting, however, that in theory, of course, the content of the basic law is of quality and that it tends to be an attempt at at least partial respect for the Constitution when we speak of the social state. It should be pointed out that it is reasonable to maintain the values set out in Articles 25 and 26 which dictate the form of admission to court. So where, how, how can the State help in the form of free legal aid to those assessed by the State and for whom it assesses themselves to be justified. It must also be said that the proposed novels, according to our assessment, are not significantly affected and that the changes are only on the basis of the directive or the desire, the requirements of the EU. However, I would like to define at this time the time available to me, which I consider to be reasonable, I would like to point out that, above all, this law shows that theory and practice differ. What I have said now, I have said, points to the existence, on the one hand, of a theoretically good marriage, but when we meet with the question of free legal aid in practice, we see that there are, in particular, some problems. My advisors within the Parliamentary Group - I believe that yours too - have obtained such opinions from individual organisations that send, or advise, their members or people on how to turn on or how to activate free legal aid. The answer by the Association of Paraplegics is as follows: Most of their members are dissatisfied with free legal aid. The second part, or other address with which we have contacted the National Party, is the Zasavje Consumers' Association, which says consumers are dissatisfied because the criteria for eligibility for free legal aid are too high. I myself think that feedback from users of free legal aid should seriously point to proposals for changes. One properly indicated need is indicated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the Rapporteur or the proposal for a law, within the framework of financial resources. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes and, of course, it is quite logical that it cannot predict how much funding will be needed in the coming period, given that we cannot know how many applicants will be required for free legal aid. However, I can say with certainty that changes or increases in funds under this type of item will be opened within the National Party in the context of amending the budget for 2005 or 2006. However, the second part, which the proposal does not require in the context of the bill, is highlighted in the National Party and we ask the proposer, namely the Ministry, to take it into account. So if we really want free legal aid to come to life in our country, we must, of course, bring it closer to both administrative and substantive people. According to our assessment or our conduct, the number of people or institutions providing free legal aid is, of course, too small. So there's not enough jobs like this, lawyers, lawyers dealing with this case. According to our assessment, this is due to Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the conditions and procedures for entering the Register for the provision of free legal aid. So I want to say that the law itself is fine, but, of course, law enforcement, such as the rules, is bad because they represent certain administrative obstacles, for the first time for the number of institutions providing free legal assistance, and for the second time, of course, the criteria governing free legal aid. According to our assessment, it would of course be very reasonable to amend this rule, particularly in Article 2, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states in the Act that the consent of the Ministry can be obtained by a maximum of five persons for the provision of free legal assistance for the court area in Ljubljana and no more than three persons in the courts - so it would be reasonable to delete the word "most" and that it is concrete, that is to say that we have so much. For the fact that if we only set the ceiling, of course, we are asking the question of the lower limit. On the other hand, we estimate that it would make sense for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, once for a change, to try to destroy its aspirations for administrative obstacles, which are precisely in this Rules of Procedure in Articles 5, 6 and 7, because, according to our assessment, it is too detailed to ask what the premises must be, so that the tiles, where such free legal assistance is carried out, must be of material that can be clean and similar. In short, legal aid must be brought closer to people not only in the form of law, which we support, but mainly in the form of those life acts that are called the rules issued by the Ministry. We sincerely hope that this will change as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendment, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Please, colleagues and colleagues who are in the lobby to come to the hall because we're going to make a decision. I am putting the law to a full vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There's only 42 of us here, I'm sure that's enough. Thanks, buddy Tone, for helping me. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE RESPONSIBILITY OF LEGAL PERSONS FOR THE PENALTIES OF ACTION, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. A respected choir! By amending the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons, by amending one Article of this Law, this Article is amended by adding the offences which have been legalized following the latest amendments to the Criminal Code on 30.03.2004. Among the offences for which legal persons are also responsible, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to include, under the International Convention on the Financing of Terrorism, the financing of terrorist acts; under the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, the sale of children; under the United Nations Convention against International "Organised" Crime, by means of a Protocol to Prevent the Suppression and Punishment of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Children and Women, Trafficking in Human Beings and under the Criminal Law Convention of the Council of Europe against Corruption, also a crime of giving gifts for some illegal intervention. With these amendments, in addition to the amendments to the Penal Code, the entire Slovenian criminal order is in line with the requirements of the international community. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you very much to Mark Starman, Secretary of State, for further explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want to report? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The New Slovenia Group will not oppose these changes. However, we believe that these changes offered by the Government are not due to coordination with the European Union. Perhaps the government has chosen this time to enforce these changes. It's not true, it's basically just a pretense to change it in this short period of time. Colleagues and colleagues, is it necessary to prosecute crime and also to sanction legal persons when they trade with people, children, women, if they commit terrorism, engage in bribery and the giving of gifts - all these things in favour, or is the legal person behind all these acts to prosecute them? Does Europe have to remind us of this, or could it grow on our herb? Have we had to go through so much time and so much tragedy before, that Europe has reminded us to move? That's what we're talking about in this law. Do legal persons also have criminal liability? The amendment of the provisions aims to regulate criminal legislation in accordance with the principles and objectives of our country, in particular ensuring respect for human rights, dignity and its freedom. Prohibitions and sanctions are now being imposed in some way also on legal persons, trafficking in human beings, recruitment, transport, admission of persons with elements of coercion and exploitation for the purposes of prostitution, forced labour, slavery, human organs - all that will be even more up-to-date with globalisation. That is why it is important that we also arrange this part. The amendment extends the criminal liability of legal persons for offences involving two new criminal groups, such as trafficking in human beings, terrorist acts and offences of bribery and intervention; of course, all of this on the basis of the involvement of a legal person who is made by a person on account or for the benefit of a legal person. This kind of trade is created not only because of the situation in the East, but also because of the situation in the West. This follows from a simple knowledge of the market, supply and demand. To the West there would be no need for such crimes, or either prostitution, trade in white goods, terrorist acts, then there would be no need for human organs, and then there would be no such crime in the East, where the West stands for such a "mild" - under the slogan. However, we must also ask ourselves in our country whether we do not encourage this by some of our actions, legal judgement or interpretation of laws. Let me remind you a little bit about the handling of the law on media and pornography. We had a perfectly solid arrangement, and then by legal interpretation - the ruling coalition crushed something else out of a lack of full compliance with European Union standards to fully open public access to this area. We have considered that this is sufficient to be limited, with limited access as in other European Union countries, because this affects the increase in crime that we are talking about indirectly in this law because it relates to the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences in relation to criminal law from 269 to 969.a. and 387., 388.a. With such a release, as previously stated, these crimes will spread, even though we will have the appropriate institutions to prosecute. Crime is always one step ahead of the country that follows it, especially when legal persons or associations are involved. So we will support the bill, even though there is an abuse of the commitment to comply with the European Union. We hope that the criminal police will strengthen and complete something technical and also human resources to carry out their work seriously. This is at least what citizens expect. Otherwise, we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Vojko Čeligoj has the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Your Honor! Notwithstanding the fact that the draft law requires only minor changes under the basic law, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we have focused on the Council of Europe's criminal law convention against corruption and on the very responsibility of legal persons for crimes. In the parliamentary group, we note that over the last 15 years, there has been a hypertrophy of texts on corruption, and few people are really engaged in the conceptual transfer of corruption or its definition. The danger of corruption in modern societies is defined by multiple titles, but it is certainly referred to as a phenomenon that eats away democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The absence of a good definition does not help solve the problem, as a lack of definition can lead to poor solutions or the suppression of crime in areas where criminal law should not, in principle, be allowed to enter. It is true, however, that the definition of corruption is difficult already because it depends on the evaluation of individual cultures, especially in documents that agree with a large number of countries and therefore necessarily the general. At the time of the adoption of the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences, the proposal has encountered a number of negative reactions, since the concept of criminal liability for legal persons is incompatible with the concept of liability for criminal offences, as is known by Slovenian law. Another observation was that the problem did not necessarily need to be addressed in criminal law. And that is what we would point out in the DeSUS Group of Members. The Convention, which is summarised by our law, specifically, provides for criminal or non-penal sanctions to be provided for in order to be responsible for the granting of bribes. The procedure for determining the liability of legal persons for criminal offences is therefore not necessarily criminal, nor does the Convention mean that it should be combined with criminal proceedings against a direct offender. In Slovenia, legal persons were responsible for the criminal code which entered into force in 1995. The new Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Crimes has therefore enabled us to realize the aspirations that have been emerging in Europe for a long time and their aim is to tighten the liability of legal persons. The extent to which marriage serves its purpose is not clear. The fact is that the court referred to him only twice, and that, indeed, resolved the civil case. The fact is that the international community considers that the responsibility of legal persons for crimes is an essential correlative of an effective fight against international economic and organised crime. We will all agree that economic crime must be given special attention by every society, as such crime covers phenomena that create material social foundations. As a result, it is undoubtedly justified and legitimate in such cases to be broken down by appropriate protective measures and also by criminal repression. The anti-corruption action programme adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe particularly stresses the need for legal persons to be responsible for the so-called corruption crimes. Adapting the legislation of European countries to the criteria of this programme is one of the priorities of the Council of Europe. Since in the DeSUS Group we believe that international acts must be respected, we will support the bill. Nevertheless, we would point out that there is a need to be careful in the criminal law area and to remain on the side of calm repressive conservativeism and not inadvertently and recklessly implement international instruments into our system as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you very much. And Master Maja Pótt has the floor. Position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats notes that the proposed law is one of those which constitutes an urgent amendment of the legal text, in this case due to the amendments adopted to the penal code. It has introduced new crimes, such as terrorist financing, trafficking in human beings, especially children and women, and possession of corruption. In all cases, these are crimes which the Republic of Slovenia has incorporated into its legislation because it is a signatory to international conventions that are aimed at acts that are very widespread in the modern world and are not limited to just one country. Terrorism, human trafficking, international organised crime and corruption threaten human security and the fundamental principles of the rule of law. However, they cannot be prevented by criminal policy alone. The reasons for them must be addressed and tried to prevent them. Of course, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats supports the proposed amendment in Article 25 of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons, adopted in 1999, provides for the liability of legal persons by adding them to a catalogue of criminal offences for which a legal person may be responsible, including those offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We will move on to a decision on the law, please, colleagues and colleagues, to join us to see if the voting devices are okay. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are more than 36 of us in the Chamber. I will put the law to the vote next time. [[...]] We'll vote next time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will vote for the third time at 13.41.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u81	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will decide for the third time on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on liability of legal persons for criminal offences. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the bill. 51 of us were present, 49 were voted against in favour of the bill. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The bill was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON On the contrary, a proposal for a law to regulate the principle of equal treatment, an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mag. Tanya Saletti, Director of the Government's Office for Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The adoption of a law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment is necessary in order to fully comply with the EU acquis, in particular the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons according to racial and ethnic origin. And here I would point out in particular Article 13, which states that Member States must identify a body or bodies to promote equal treatment of all persons without discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin and that this body will offer independent assistance to victims of discrimination, conduct independent treatment in the event of alleged infringement of discrimination and give opinions and recommendations. In part, however, this law also aligns itself with the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons in employment. In order to meet this requirement of the directive, namely this special body, there is only a solution in the law or proposal of the law, and here I would point out only that the drafter of the law has already imposed an additional task on the existing government service and has not established a new body for non-discrimination. However, since in practice we meet for unequal treatment of persons in the face of different personal circumstances and because the EU is also increasingly paying more attention to the realization of equal treatment, not only of sex, but also of other personal circumstances such as race, ethnicity, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation, age and not only of employment, but also of wider scope, we have decided in this proposal of law to essentially cover all personal circumstances and to intervene in all areas of social life. Thus, the bill summarises all the requirements of the Directive and ensures equal treatment of all persons in the exercise of their rights and obligations and in the exercise of their fundamental freedoms. In addition to the Institute of Defence, which it introduces, it also prohibits the victimisation of a person who is discriminated against, defines the definition of discrimination and acts considered to be discrimination, defines positive measures and defines the holders of tasks and their competences. Finally, I would like to point out that in preparing this bill we have included or consulted and coordinated with all those actors whom we thought would help us to better resolve and, among other things, we have consulted with the Ombudsman's Office. I propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you. The Internal Policy Committee considered the draft law as a parent labour force. You've received the report. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Majda Zupan has the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! While it is common for a legal area to be regulated first by a basic law which lays down common bases, starting points and conditions for regulating the area in procedural and material terms. But we went the other way around. Last year we passed a special law on equal opportunities between women and men, which defines sex as a personal circumstance for equal treatment and equal opportunities. Just before May 1st, when Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union and is obliged to fully implement its legal order, the proposer offers us a general law and a silhouette for the adoption of the law, so that the irregular alignment with the legal order of the European Union would constitute a breach of contractual obligations, which could also result in compensation. The law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment adopted under the urgent procedure shall harmonise Council Directives on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and on the general framework for equal treatment in employment and work. The Slovenian Constitution ensures equality before the law of all persons, irrespective of any personal circumstances. In addition, Slovenia has signed a series of international instruments relating to the protection of human rights in a broader way and, above all, to the protection against discrimination and has ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Notwithstanding the constitutional and legal equality before the law, we are aware that problems can arise in everyday life and that some social groups in certain areas are still in a deprived position compared to the majority. Last year, the law already provides for a special advocate or advocate to deal with cases of alleged gender inequality before the Office for Equal Opportunities. The proposed law, however, is also intended to constitute a basis and harmonisation in an institutional sense. This is also one of the opportunities for the Equal Opportunities Office to hire men, because in this way it would be much more credible, because it seems to work in some sense as a women's circle, in which only women determine the same opportunities for all. The proposer included the Netherlands, Belgium and Sweden in the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and added Bulgaria, while the arrangements in our neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy and, for example, Germany are not reported, which seems to be flawed. The Ombudsman made a number of comments to the bill. It considers that the proposal for a law is only a partial and incomplete implementation of the Directives of the European Union and that institutional organisation in the field of prevention and elimination of discrimination is incomplete. It doubts that, according to its status, the Equal Opportunities Office will not be able to effectively carry out the role of coordinating the activities of individual ministries and government services, and also that advocates within the government office will not be able to guarantee independence in the performance of tasks. Inspection should also not be effective enough, which could also lead to problems in practice. The Legislative and Legal Service has also drawn up an extensive opinion and comments on the 10th articles of the 28th. In particular, it points out that there could be difficulties in implementing both laws, in particular in assessing which provisions should apply in specific cases. The representative of the proposer, however, followed the warnings of the legislative and legal service and the amendments to the 12 articles adopted by the Committee for its literal support [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] an irregular and vaguely prepared legal proposal. [[...]] In our parliamentary group, in New Slovenia, we believe that the law is ready quickly, that it poorly and superficially implements the Directives, that institutional organisation is underthinking and that it will therefore not be effective enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Thank you. I invite Private Celigo to take the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! Both in Slovenia and in Europe, serious attempts to implement the principle of equal treatment show a large number of adopted international instruments and sub-legislative acts. In particular, more NGOs have been emerging in Slovenia recently, which are actively involved in ensuring non-discriminatory treatment regardless of personal circumstances. We say that trials are because there is certainly not yet sufficient system for implementing the principle of equal opportunities, otherwise the law would probably not be needed at all. The bill advocates the implementation of the principle of equal treatment in particular in the fields of nationality and ethical communities, persons with disabilities, religious communities and persons with sexual orientation. As far as promoting equal opportunities for nationalities is concerned, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that Slovenia has one of the best normative bases in Europe, which it also consistently implements and therefore remains only a dead letter on paper. That is true, it shows a comparative and legal review of the laws of other countries and reports of organisations that are closely monitoring the situation in this area. This does not mean, of course, that we are not seeking to eliminate discrimination against individuals if they occur in individual lives. On the contrary, we consider that any discrimination based on personal circumstances is unjustifiable. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are concerned about the fact that the proportion of unemployed persons with disabilities is increasing from year to year. Among the disabled, there are certainly the most elderly people who may have contributed their entire lives to the social treasury, and after the disability has occurred, society has left them in awe. I wonder what this is about: whether it's inadequate legislation, or the situation in society, or perhaps insufficient incentives for employers. However, the disabled are part of our society, which must be adequately cared for by society. At the principal level, we have already expressed our support for the proposal for an explicit statement of persons with disabilities in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this principle must also be reflected in our society. It is true that I have good assurances of equality of religious communities in Slovenia at the normative level, but there are differences between groups and groups of opinions on the criteria for establishing real equality. Also in same-sex-oriented groups, because sometimes it seems that an attempt at equal regulation at a normative level is sometimes faster than time and evolution. The substance of the bill is, in particular, the introduction of an institution of advocates to the Office for Equal Opportunities, which is expected to deal with a slightly less formal, and in particular faster, alleged infringement of the principle of equal treatment. In the Group of Members, we agree that any form of discrimination must be eliminated as quickly as possible and, on the other hand, it is reasonable to examine all the institutions that seek and establish relations between them. In the DeSUS Group, we also advocate a greater role of NGOs in creating conditions for equal opportunities, since these are more closely linked to a particular group and a local community and therefore have an urgent better view of the situation. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, while we believe that good legislation does not yet create good societies, good legislation can certainly be a good basis for a positive shift in people's thinking. Since the bill promotes social justice, we will also support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members. The law ahead of us is intended to apply the requirements of the two Council of Europe directives, namely the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of growth or ethical origin, and also the Directive on the general framework for equal treatment in employment and work. And given this material, this law is the so-called European Law and is due to be adopted by 1 May. In our view, however, the proposal of this law, although supplemented by the Internal Policy Committee, does not implement these two directives and does not achieve the purpose for which it is intended to be adopted. In view of the data and the real facts about the situation of women in our society, a law on equal opportunities and constitutional changes has been adopted by introducing positive discrimination against women on the candidate lists for elections, which we supported in the Slovenian People's Party Group. In the legislative proposals, the Slovenian People's Party's Group has always supported and also proposes respect for the principle of equal opportunities for all, especially the elimination of discrimination, such as children who are far from major centres and do not have the same opportunities for education, do not have the same access to public institutions, rights - we have always supported the rights of families with children, large families with multiple children, small entrepreneurs, farmers who are a slightly more vulnerable group in society. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party in all areas we support the equitable development of all parts of Slovenia, which is one of the measures taken to eliminate unequal treatment. In our view, access to education, to employment and to public institutions for all citizens must be as equal as possible. This proposal does not resolve and eliminate these discriminations. However, by relying on the directive, it seeks to further introduce into certain other circumstances and to solve certain problems of so-called minorities in our society, such as equally targeted and smaller ones, with other interests of the merging groups, which we certainly believe deserve all the attention of society, but cannot be dealt with in such a law in such a way. Article 14 of our Constitution provides for the exercise of human rights and freedoms, and in our view, this law narrows them down and disregards all forms of discrimination, despite some additions. In Slovenia we have had since the independence of the Ombudsman, whose tasks are defined both in the Constitution and in the laws. The tasks provided for in this Act should, in our opinion, be laid down by the Ombudsman or already set elsewhere, and the same opportunities for women should already be governed by a special law. Therefore, in our view, this proposal is unnecessary and is also more specific in certain other laws. We agree with the opinion of the Ombudsman, who says in point 3 of his comments that the law should appoint an independent advocate, as provided for in the directive, even one or more independent bodies. This bill, however, does not provide an independent advocate and independent assistance to those who are discriminated against, but imposes this task on the Office for Equal Opportunities, whose staff composition is practically one-sex. A supporter who is employed in a government office that is subordinate to the government or part of the ministry is certainly a political, governmental, and therefore a state body, and certainly not an independent advocate. Too often, an advocate, such as a union, must defend the rights of individuals and negotiate with the government. Therefore, they feel that such advocacy is not independent and is, in the past, a bad journey for the purpose of marriage. Human rights and freedoms under Article 14 of the Constitution and equal opportunities for all citizens must be realized in the adoption of any law or other public law, the equal opportunity law is in force, constitutional changes are in force before us, and we believe that the bill is not necessary or, as set out, has missed the objective for which it was intended. It's hard to say whether to support him. It is a nominal solution to part of the alignment of our country's legal order with the EU acquis, but its concept has seriously missed its purpose, so I leave it to my fellow Members and colleagues in the Group of Members to make their own decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u89	Peter Levich has the floor. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment is more than indispensable. We regret that the government has only managed to prepare it now that the EU has forced us to adopt this law. The naive are those who think that the law that governs this area does not need an excuse, that the Constitution already guarantees equal human rights regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other conviction and that the process of constitutional change, including disability, will succeed. It seems to me that there have been so many obvious violations of these constitutional rights in Slovenia recently that the law will not help them to respect them. We Slovenians are a very impatient nation. We don't like Muslims, drug addicts, homosexuals, alcoholics, blacks, eraseds, raviars, prisoners, people from former brother republics, disabled people, dog owners, and not least young mothers with children. A few days ago, in the media, we were able to track the resistance of villagers against the intentions of the local community to allow the establishment of a mother's home. Small children are supposed to disturb their peace and rest. We could see the statements of the inhabitants in which they highlighted their right to uninterrupted rest. They raised their children themselves and did not intend to listen to the cries and cattle of other children. I don't know if these people are aware of who their mother's home is. That it is a home for women with children who for various reasons cannot raise their children in the home environment. Surely no mother has the desire to live with her children in a nursing home; rather, it is an emergency exit or an opportunity to make life work and find a better way. I cannot imagine a person who can claim that his right to sleep is greater than the right of children to a healthy and normal development and childhood. I can't imagine anyone else sleeping uninterruptedly while their mother and child are exposed to violence and without a roof over their head. How can those who know that a child is unhappy be able to sleep peacefully? Discussing the rights of believers to an appropriate place to perform religious rites is now doomed to failure in this overheated atmosphere around the mosque referendum. Nor should the squandering of the European Union, however, meet the mind of the Slovenians and start to respect the rights that believers have, help. Politicians who, because of their own interests, spread the already unfavorable opinion of the people are worthy of all condemnation. Because of some media exposure, they are prepared for thousands of people to renounce the rights that are certainly following the constitution. The law on same-sex partnerships is coming to the National Assembly. Some of his clients have already denied him support before he even came to the parliamentary bench. The human right to choose for himself a partner with whom to create a living community is certainly one of the fundamental rights, and if it is with a person of the same sex - what is it? Who cares who lives in a joint household? Why shouldn't someone have the same right as all other citizens just because their partner is of the same sex? Is that why he's any less human, so his love is much less valuable? Where the story with the deleted came from, we know. Inflating a matter that should never have occurred is a unique case of human rights violations. The intolerance to others is already so prevalent in Slovenia that sometimes it is wrong to dress differently. The desire to be as similar as possible to others, to be in an unexposed environment, will be of little help to us as we join the great crowds of nations and cultures. If we are not able to adopt different cultures equally, we will not be able to maintain ours. How can we expect someone to respect our human rights if we do not respect their rights ourselves? This is how we always like to expose our development and openness, but we are always falling back on human rights exams. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u91	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrata is given the floor for the position of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats will support the proposed law on the principle of equal treatment. I could repeat the basic starting points that I mentioned last year when we passed the Equal Opportunities Act and concluded that the democratic nature of a society is judged by the extent to which society is able to recognise the principle of equal treatment, whether it is the largest social group or minority groups. Another issue that could be discussed on the proposal for a law is whether the law on the principle of equal treatment is necessary or not, given that the principle of equal treatment is ensured by the Constitution, that equality before the law is guaranteed in many other legal provisions, that Slovenia has ratified a number of international conventions and has also supported or complied with directives, European directives which require it to take into account what is becoming the normal civil obligation of every regulated state. However, we believe in the parliamentary group that it is possible to impose the law on the issue yes or no. In this respect, we support or attach to what the bill's proponents have written down in the objectives and principles and main solutions to the law. In view of the fact that the proposed law lays common ground and groundwork for ensuring equal treatment of persons in any area of social life. That this law prohibits discrimination in any area of social life, as well as victimisation, which a discriminatory person might be exposed to in the event of acts of discrimination. Let me refer to the records in mass media or to the reports of the Ombudsman, from which it can be seen that such cases of discrimination and also victimisation in our society are more than we would like. It is also true that we consider it appropriate and necessary to adopt a general system law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of any personal circumstances. In doing so, we do not have the same perspective in society as to how equality and the principle of equal treatment should be implemented in cases where this principle in society is not sufficiently taken into account so far. The Equal Treatment Act is, of course, embarrassing at a time when we compare it with the Equal Opportunities Act. However, we believe that this dilemma, which the law opens well, is resolved and that in this law, with the Institute of Defence, it is possible to build up the institution which the Equal Opportunities Act has provided for. We also support the possibility of assisting persons who have been victims or who have not been treated in accordance with the principle of equal treatment. Of course, the question is how much this law interferes with the powers of the Ombudsman. On the committee, the proposed amendments received support, but I think the difference is precisely where the Ombudsman can only advise, while the law also has some legal consistency in that form. I would like to draw attention to another dilemma, that is, whether the law itself can solve certain things or not. If, by practice, the law can only warn, it can only provide for offences or criminal sanctions. However, the principle of equal treatment will be fully enforced in society, and we will have to wait for our own actions and public awareness to make a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Thank you. This concludes the presentations of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Before voting, explain the vote, Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I will support the law because, if nothing else, it eliminates weaknesses in our legal order by reflecting on the European legal order. It bothers me, however, that under this veil, because of the Government's irresponsible approach, there is an unfinished, unimaginable law that does not solve a whole range of areas as it should, and is essentially unnecessary in such a way. It is a shame, however, that we abuse both the national assembly and the general public by such an approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE POLICE LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Miha Molan, State Secretary in the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! With the proposed amendment to the Police Act, we will align the situation of civil servants or public servants moving from other authorities to the police, particularly customs and Slovenian Armed Forces. In particular, customs officials from 1.5.2004 move as a technological surplus to police work [[approximately 170 people]] and by these amendments and additions to the law, we align their status as they already have today with their status in the future. So all of these workers already have, under the applicable legislation, a permanent allowance or a work in a specific body. At the time of the transition, this status is lost, and the government has therefore decided that all these workers must be aligned with the amendment of the legislation. The second amendment concerns the conduct of professional examinations. With regard to the adoption of the acquis of the European Union or the implementation of the Schengen standards, an additional number of police officers should be employed and by 1.7 this year, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Servants, approximately 1000 police officers should carry out this examination for public servants, which is not feasible in practice. This is why we have proposed to amend the law and with the amendments adopted by the Internal Policy Committee, this deadline has been extended to two years from 1.7. to 1.7.2007 to ensure the full implementation and adoption of the Schengen acquis. Similarly, the amendment to Article 134, which is in accordance with the adopted Law on Public Servants, is necessary for the majority or for survival, since all employees are allocated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Servants and are due to receive an education within two years. The Internal Policy Committee has adopted a series of amendments, which are essentially editorially correcting the provisions of amendments and supplementing the law and also harmonising the text in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Committee and the Government supports them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee representative want to file a report? [[He doesn't want to.]] He's not here. We give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for the views of the members of the groups. Majda Zupan has the floor for the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Thank you very much again for your word. Your Honor! Since 1.5.2004, with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Police Act to customs officers who will have to replace the state authority and move to the police force should ensure the same scope of rights as they had in their current jobs. In particular, Article 3 is important, which constitutes a fundamental intervention in the system of promotion into titles. By 1.7.2005, as has been said, a total of 1,400 police officers should carry out the appropriate professional examination for appointment to the title. The proposer shall propose a review of the mandatory professional examination. As one of the reasons, it also cites a reduction in costs, and even considers that there is no need for an expert examination, as police officers process the main substance through training. The data that 40% of the candidates repeat the exam and that 15% of the candidates do not pass the exam raises the question of what is the level of training and how they take education seriously. A permanent oversight of the performance of the professional examination for appointment as proposed by the Government means, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the suspension of the mechanism to preserve, deepen and verify the level of knowledge achieved. In our New Slovenia Group, we believe that the city of a police officer is responsible and difficult and that a lack of knowledge in these places can be a possible generator of many complications, including legal ones, which are then resolved by complaints in court proceedings, which is also costly. The applicant recognises that the Schengen Border, which is established on 1 May and which requires such solutions, is in fact the main reason for such provisions. This year's call for police workers is not supposed to be as successful as they wanted, since out of 200 candidates, as far as they were expected, they received only 120 so they have to wait in some way for new candidates in June when high school students leave their high school benches. Therefore, it is only in this profession and in this case that the examination of compulsory professional examination should be transparent. However, if there is a policeman in any other programme of the state administration, the examination should be carried out, the proposer suggests so. However, we believe that the reasons are not convincing and that leaving the professional exam in the title is not a good solution. The proposal for a new 69a Article aimed at extending the time limit for the performance of the professional examination for appointment as a police officer and a criminalist during the transitional period was in some way expected. Thus, a police officer may exceptionally be appointed to a police and criminal title provided that no later than two years after his appointment to the title, he carries out an appropriate professional examination for appointment to the title. In our parliamentary group, with the initial proposed amendment and the addition of the Police Act, we are not satisfied. We understand the problems of the police, which, in particular, has with the establishment of the Schengen border, but we do not believe that this makes it possible to overlook the mandatory professional examination that applies to all civil servants, so the proposed extension of the time limit for the conduct of the professional examination seems to be more acceptable and in this direction a decision to support the law is easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan has the floor. Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. At first, we would ask ourselves what caused this marriage that we have before us. The answer is simple: respect for existing legislation or, in other words, implementation of laws into practice, laws that we have adopted in the National Assembly. In other words, it is necessary or not to implement the letter of the law, because the paper transfers everything, or if you want anything else, that we adopt with great ease laws that are then harder to implement and implement or worse when the law is not being implemented, that is to say, we change another law. And that's the case. What if we go in the right order? The Law on Public Servants adopted in Article 193(1) provides that workers who have been in administrative or higher administrative positions on 28.6.2003 and who have not passed an expert examination on the basis of a law on traineeships, professional examinations and the completion of the professional training of workers in the public administration and in the judiciary and who do not yet have a five-year period of service to carry out the examination. If they don't do it, their working relationship will end. The same applies to workers who were appointed to the official title after 28.6.2003. In the police until 28.6.2005, he has to pass an expert examination for the appointment of approximately 1,000 workers and after another variant of around 400. So it's the 1,400 police officers who should do this exam. In view of the experience and the professional examination system so far, it is anticipated that this is the case with the proposer that about 40% of the workers will have to be retested, either in full or in part, and it is also estimated that about 15% of the total, there will be more than 200 people, who will not be tested at all. This is also the opinion of the proposer. With such a drop, it is also highly likely that the Republic of Slovenia will not meet the criteria for taking over the protection of the future European border and the Schengen Action Plan. The Government therefore proposes to abolish the examination by amending the legislation. You could say the wrong world. And for two reasons. First of all, because of the statistics on exams, I think about the reason for such statistics, and the reasons for the situation. What if we go in the right order again? The fact that the exam was performed by only 60% of the candidates and 15% never - after experience - there is something wrong with that. And that's very wrong, and with the system, probably less with the candidates. It can happen that some generation of tinyness is worse, not just the whole generation, and it's so numerous. There's something wrong with the system, there's something wrong with the exam or exam. If changes are needed, they are necessary for a reason. It is necessary to check and check the examinations and the method of carrying out these examinations in a substantive, procedural manner. The exams will need to be made for life or life. In the SDS, because of the above, we could not support the law, nor could we support the reason why we came into such a state of emergency, why you're making trouble because of the number of police officers. I would like to remind you that years ago in this space, we retired 600 police officers at all times and the pressure of the ruling majority, which is about the same as now, early at all costs. They were over 40 years old, and we wanted to retire. Of course, I will not recall that in the opposition at that time, we objected precisely because they are the most experienced people, because they are only years of experience. But there's something else. 600 police officers, who then retired prematurely, mean 15 police stations, numbered at the time, that's five years ago, I think. Fifteen police stations were retired early. I don't know. I don't know why. The opposition then pointed to the problem. Now we're shorthanded. There's been trouble ever since. Therefore, the basic proposal for SDS would not be acceptable and could not be supported, but the proposal that emerged during the debate on the Internal Policy Committee, which has changed slightly and has become more lifelike, we will not oppose in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Maximilian Lavrinz has the floor. He's quitting. A quiet Potch, the position of the united list.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support the draft law, together with the amendments prepared by the mother's working body. We have received an assessment that, in view of taking over obligations with full membership of Slovenia in the European Union, by regulating the situation at the Schengen border, on the fact that a part of the customs officers will have to be transferred to police units, on the basis of the fact that in the short term it would be necessary to carry out an expert administrative examination, a state exam for about four hundred police officers, to require an examination of the situation and to determine whether all these objectives could be regulated in the context of the current legislation. We have received an assessment that the current situation could have the effect that the necessary professional examinations would not have been carried out so that they could not provide the necessary composition of police officers at the borders and that this would be a failure to respect our commitments. At the same time, it seemed reasonable to us the warnings given by the legislative and legal service that it would not be right to be acceptable that after a good year of enforcement of the Law on Public Servants for an important part of the staff, over a thousand and four hundred police officers, we simply overlook the obligation to conduct a professional examination, which is a condition for advancing to higher titles. That is why we have found a solution on the home working body, which we jointly support, to extend the period within which these examinations need to be carried out in order to ensure that the necessary personnel are provided for the Schengen border, while ensuring that, by 1.7.2007 at the latest, the professional examinations for all those who do not have them are carried out, and we believe that the proposed law can be adopted in an appropriate manner with a solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The government has tabled changes and additions to the law on police as well as many other laws that we are now enacting. We all know things are going as they go. May 1st is before us, the decision of the will of the people is clear and we cannot, nor must we oppose, in the Slovenian National Party. At the same time, it is quite clear that, when the regime changes at the borders, there are many changes, and it is quite clear that one control turns into another. This is how we see and do not oppose or have no right to oppose customs becoming an integral part of police units. We also know that in the performance of a work, all people have the same right and equal responsibility for the work they have done. This is also clear to us in the Slovenian National Party. It is good that an opinion was also taken into account on the working body in order to establish a transitional period within which employees who are applying at the Schengen and Schengen levels must have a certain period of time and carry out their examination. Nevertheless, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to raise three doubts or questions that we have in the Slovenian National Party. First time. We doubt our government knew about the Schengen issue before. It was clear what Schengen would bring, already, I think a few years ago. And again, the question of Schengen was clear four, five years ago, I'm sure, but the solution comes on the nose now. Another time. Please, if I can get an answer. The introduction in the Rapporteur states on page 84, or the last sentence on page 83 and on: "In addition to carrying out an appropriate professional examination for the appointment of a policeman, the financial cost is at least 52 million tolars" and so on, "and then an additional 20 million tolars," if we add that up, is 70, 80 million tolars. But no one's doing anything for nothing. However, I do not understand that on the same page 84 the amount of financial costs, totalling 80 million tolars, on the same page under point 3, "financial consequences", the government says: "The proposed amendment of the law has no direct financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia." Of course, you can convince me whether you want to or not, but it is not clear to us in the Slovenian National Party that there is a cost on the same side and at the same time denying these costs that there are no consequences. You can tell me that this is not foreseen, it's not foreseen, but if someone says in the beginning that there are some consequences that came with this change, and then they say they're not, it's a little strange that a person would believe. Maybe you'll convince me. In the Slovenian National Party, we will each decide on the adoption or non-admission of this law. But I will be very happy because we are in such a hurry that, in these days, what I have asked to date, I have not received any answers. But it probably doesn't matter. I would be happy, however, to have the distinguished gentleman explain to me that, on the one hand, the costs are projected due to the delays of 80 million and, on the other hand, there are no costs. It's some kind of weird math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Thank you, colleague Bogdan Barovich. The general debate was held on the home working body, the Internal Policy Committee, where questions were raised and answers were answered. No amendments and amendments were tabled and adopted to the amended proposal. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to invest, so we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. I'm informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the law. There are 53 of us present, 45.1 against the law. [[The vote was 45.]] [[1 versus.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We're moving to 31. At the very first stage of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. We'll only wait a moment for government representatives. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members, with the first-signed Bogdan Barovic, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Marko Starman, Secretary of State, has the floor for the introductory supplementary explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected choir! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for a new Personal Data Protection Act in order to implement, on the one hand, the provisions of the 1995 Directive, as well as the harmonisation with the recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in 2003 and with the law of personal data protection in Europe. The proposal for a personal data protection law also regulates protection in accordance with the provisions of Article 38, Article 87 and Article 120(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as already regulated in the current personal data protection law of 1999, as amended in 2001. The main reasons for the new Personal Data Protection Act are the full implementation of the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Directive in the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, as well as the need for the practice shown in the Republic of Slovenia, for example the issue of the form of consent, video surveillance and so on. Most of the provisions of the proposed law are based directly on the provisions of that Directive and on the positions of Slovenian constitutional practice. The constitutional right to the protection of personal data in the Republic of Slovenia, based on Article 38 of the Constitution, is a right that belongs to every individual, a natural person, regardless of his sex, nationality, religion, residence, citizenship. The Personal Data Protection Act, as a system law, exercises this constitutional right to protect the confidentiality of personal data. Exceptions to the protection of personal data must, as a rule, be provided for in sectoral laws in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The Personal Data Protection Act, however, may also prescribe certain sectoral legal arrangements which are also proposed in this proposal, provided that there is no other general provision on this issue and that there is an obvious need for life. First of all, I would like to mention how the proposed law regulates the issue of the protection of personal data in the public sector. The primary primary basis for processing personal data protection is still in line with the bill and now the personal consent of data subjects, but with a larger circle of exceptions as provided for in the law in force, especially in the private sector. Personal consent, the individual is much broader than the written consent so far, as it contains such written consent as is possible also in the case of electronic signature, oral or other appropriate form of consent, so that the circle of possible forms of consent is quite extended. In addition, the law now makes it much clearer that the public sector can also process personal data on the basis of personal consent or in the context of a contractual relationship. However, the written consent of an individual is necessary only in the processing of sensitive personal data, by providing for exceptions to situations and in addition to personal data on health. The proposed general legal basis for the processing of personal data is also the personal interest of the person concerned with personal data, which is defined in more detail in the draft law as the protection of the life or body of the individual. In this case, no individual’s written or other personal consent is required in accordance with the draft law. With regard to the general legal basis for the processing of personal data by law, it is necessary to reiterate that the proposal for a law with such a provision follows the above-mentioned Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the established constitutional practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, bearing in mind that the right to the protection of the confidentiality of personal data is the constitutional right of an individual to have the provision of Article 38 of the Constitution of a categorical nature, as the Constitutional Court of May 2002 warned in the decision, and that the Constitutional Court must also be a constitutional court in assessing the constitutionality of the laws governing this sensitive area, precisely and strictly. The basis for processing personal data in the private sector is the law, personal consent, contract or pre-contractual phase defined slightly more clearly. For the first time, the processing of personal data for the purpose of direct marketing and the right of an individual to it is also precisely defined. The private sector will now have more room for manoeuvre here to collect and process personal data, of course in accordance with the general provisions of the law. The proposal of the whole law took into account the principle of proportionality from the case to the case in the light of the specific circumstances in accordance with the constitutional practice of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed, in the preparation of the law, according to constitutional provisions and in the light of the needs in practice, the extent to which such an intervention into constitutional law is permissible. The inspection of the protection of personal data and other mainly advisory powers will continue to be carried out by an inspectorate for the protection of personal data under the law as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Justice. The proposed arrangements are in line with the European Commission, the powers and autonomy of the inspectorate are so detailed that it is clear that the inspectorate is independent in the exercise of its powers. Only a partial derogation from the system of state administration and the law of public servants regarding the specific procedure for appointing the Chief Inspector shall be justified. A completely new state authority, commission or agency or other independent state authority cannot be established for both financial and human resources reasons. According to the specificities of their work areas, three state authorities have waived the system legislation in the public sector: the police, the law on police - the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency - according to the law on Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency and the Guarantee Maintenance Fund. The appointment and discharge of the Chief Data Protection Inspector by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a systemic solution for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that it contributes to the independence of the inspectorate and the implementation of the constitutional principle of the division of power. The Inspectorate's competence to submit requirements for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the rules identified by constitutional dispute in the exercise of its powers is an additional important acquisition in the field of the protection of personal data. The system is a solution derogating from the established system of regulation of applicants for the initiation of the procedure, but given the relevance of the constitutional right to the protection of personal data, it is necessary and also comparatively justified, since the inspectorate would not be independent if the constitutional assessment requirements could only be made through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the executive branch of the Authority. Also, for example, I could not apply for an assessment of the constitutionality issued by the Government. The bill defines certain new areas of regulation that are regulated by law, taking into account the practical needs of Slovenian reality or the increasing development and use of technology. These are measures to implement the so-called video surveillance and biometric measures. The records of entries and exits from official or service premises are prescribed solely for the practical needs and requirements of the Slovenian legal order. A regular legislative procedure is proposed to deal with the proposal for a personal data protection law based on the fact that the proposed law on the protection of the systemic nature governing constitutional human rights is inappropriate and therefore the urgent procedure would be inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Thank you very much for further explanation. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the Personal Data Protection Act, which is an extremely important topic. The bill-maker, the government, deals with the issue of personal data regulation and protection at the time of the former State in an extensive introduction. From this introduction it is possible to understand that the system worked well. In fact, they left behind a key conclusion from that period that it was a dichotomy system, that is, an official system, that was presented to the population, and another system that was secret and abused personal data for other purposes. This introduction touches 60% of the things that worked in the previous system, and does not really explain what was actually happening. At the normative level, some lawyers have started to deal with this problem, say, Lovro Sturm, this is what you refer to. I believe that he has dealt relevantly with normative issues, comparatives, those that have been made available and has identified the level of protection of personal data. However, it did not go into the actual reality of the previous regime. This is most vivid in 1985, when some changes were adopted in this area, but on the other hand a very interesting manual on police functioning and following people, those who are supposed to be supposed to be enemies of the self-government system, which is built on revolutionary foundations. This was in 1985, this manual was infamous and no one mentioned it inside. No criticism has been given of the system of operation of personal data protection or the abuse of personal data in the old regime. Historical experience teaches us that one part of the issue of protecting personal data is at a normative level, on the other hand, the enforcement of laws. That is why we are also facing two potential threats in the current system. Executive rules of the government and the ministers and, on the other hand, of the repressive authorities. Therefore, there is still a need for a transparent assessment of the Constitutional Court in the issuance of sub-laws and the supervision of services and audits regarding the functioning of the executive branch in the misuse of personal data for other purposes. The possibility of abuse is increased by the appetites of the country, which increases the data collection system and computerisation and IT. Take a look at what it was like to adopt laws in the fields of work, employment, social activities, health care. State authorities, the government has proposed a series of changes extending the databases they will run. The citizens will be combed long and later and beyond and not by the database. This increases the risk of abuse and the intrusion of unauthorized persons into these databases. And that's very simple. Then it is also necessary to mention unusual practices, including prosecutions, in the case of abuse of control of private phones, as was the case with journalist Ranc. Undoubtedly, it was found that supervision was at a time when there was no appropriate authority to do so. The prosecution has dismissed this action for failing to obtain or abuse other benefits under this heading. This is a very dangerous thing to do, for it makes potential perpetrators act to do it and, of course, to erase any reason, so that the branch of the repressive authorities or the judicial authorities could at all find that any acquisitions from this address were made. Well, then they can control it. In this regard, it also raises a second question: listening to mobile phones. We are aware that some individuals or legal persons in our country have imported mobile phone surveillance equipment. We have found that none of the state authorities have acquired such equipment. The country is far more backward than the various clicks that work for some other benefit. The Constitutional Court has already dealt with biometric data. A long time ago, this issue was much more exposed. We do know, however, that personal data pertaining to the health status of an individual, his ability, such as a test of intelligence, his health flaws and many other things, which may appear in the public or become a prey to blackmail by different groups or individuals. Therefore, of course, it is still important that we adopt this law. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to think that it is necessary and we are also working to ensure that this law is passed and that it also provides higher standards for the protection of personal data. It is a matter of safeguarding the dignity of an individual, his freedom and privacy, which can be very quickly violated, either through, as we have already mentioned, by means of sub-laws, enforcement regulations or through the functioning of national repressive authorities or individuals using equipment, as we have said, by double-useing to obtain data and then blackmailing them. The proposed law also defines the concept of connecting signs. The connecting signs are essentially a code such as the EMSO and the tax number with which it enters different databases, so that these data are comparable to each other to be upgraded, selected and, of course, abused. From the point of view of data privacy and the protection of fundamental freedoms and rights in legal and democratic society, this matter is even more dangerous because these interconnections are the universal key to the databases of all data and its rapid entry. In any case, we should also face questions about what to do with the classified information obtained during the previous regime in an improper way or in a hidden way that was only accessible to the secret police. This is an extensive database that may be the subject of abuse. These databases have come out of the system, so they are owned by certain natural persons, legal persons, and in this respect there is no relevant legislation. We think it's necessary to settle this with the law. We could decide, irrespective of the directives and the suggestions of the EU when we join this association, to also adopt this chapter under this law, which would address the issue of personal data obtained during the totalitarian regime. We could also choose a second option to adopt a special law and regulate these databases, protect the integrity of the individual and give a decent picture of this country from others, to give us something to do with it. The whole spectrum should be regulated, not just what you're suggesting. Therefore, we are counting on the government to find more time, because it is obvious that he is working in a row right now, because I would like to clear up just before the 12th of all things that have been wrong, so you will find time and submit an appropriate law to protect personal data, citizens who have been targeted and the means of processing intelligence services in the previous regime. We can't join an association like this, because it's not just gonna be our problem. As we enter the European Union, this is also becoming a problem for the international community of the European Union. Other countries with similar experience have regulated this area, the protection regime, the possibility of obtaining data for themselves, the storage and prohibition of use or abuse. In short, some solutions should be further explored and complemented by these "mancas", which we have also found in New Slovenia somehow and would be very necessary for the functioning of our legal system. So much for once. New Slovenia will actively participate in the drafting of the text in the next discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Private Cheligoy gets his word. Position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Thank you very much again. The purpose of the protection of personal data is not merely to protect the data itself but to protect the data subject and thus his or her information privacy. The generation of older people knows too well how important it is to protect personal data, since their abuse can limit and increase human rights. This could seriously undermine the foundations of the democratic system. The European Union's regulation of the field of personal data protection is based on the principle of fundamental human right to privacy, as personal data are increasingly being processed in various areas of economic and social activity in the European Union. The progress of information technology greatly facilitates the processing and exchange of such data. Economic and social integration, which is the result of the establishment and functioning of the internal market, necessarily leads to a significant increase in the flow of personal data both within and between Member States, among all those personally and publicly involved in economic and social activities in the Member States. The exchange of personal data between companies of different Member States is also increasing. National administrations in the Member States are invited to cooperate and exchange personal data on the basis of European Union law and to enable the implementation of obligations or tasks for another authority in another Member State, in terms of the free movement of data and information as provided for in the internal market. Scientific and technical cooperation and the coordinated introduction of new telecommunications networks into the community is also increasing, requiring and enabling the flow of personal data between Member States. The European Union aims to strike a balance between the collection and processing of personal data and the fundamental right of individuals to privacy by harmonising legislation between Member States. The proposal seeks, inter alia, to avoid a more stringent Member State banning the transfer of personal data to a less stringent country which would impede the functioning of the internal market in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured. Discoherence between countries would also hamper the transfer of confidential data between companies and thus impede the provision of services across borders, since a branch established in another country would not have received the necessary data. This means, in short, that a uniform regulation of the field of personal data protection allows or facilitates the free movement of services between countries within the European Union. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we assess that, in the light of the pursuit of the objectives set out in the draft law and the need to align our legal order with the criteria applicable in the common internal European market, the bill is appropriate for the continuation of the procedure in the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the bill because we believe it constitutes a good basis for the continuation of the procedure. However, we need to reflect on the part of the law that I will try to present below. On the basis of experience and in accordance with the provisions of Article 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposer of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has decided to retain the concept of the protection of the confidentiality of personal data and of exceptions to the protection of the confidentiality of personal data, which must be laid down in detail and in accordance with the principle of proportionality in the field laws in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, the fundamental question that we are facing is whether this law properly enforces the principle that the right to privacy can be limited to another right or the right of the public to know. The degree of democracy is also reflected in the transparency of the functioning of the State and its administration. Under the Public Information Access Act, every citizen may have free access to information of a public nature available to public authorities. Nevertheless, it is complicated, and this is true practice that shows us, in a number of cases. For example, can we find out by name about the salaries of each official? For example, whether the information that the police have accused the director of a public undertaking by name and surname is public or not. Opinions differ because in all these cases we face provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, on the one hand, of course with people performing public functions. If I go back to the salaries of my officers. The law implementing the Anti-Corruption Act repealed the provisions of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of functions with a gainful activity. This law provided in Article 12 that salaries and other remuneration of officials paid out of the budget shall be public. However, this Article no longer applies. The anti-corruption law does not explicitly state that this is public information. The Public Sector Wage Scheme Act provides, however, that salaries are public and that only job, title or function information is available to the public on the basic salary, on the supplement and on the part of the salary for performance, with the exception of the work-life allowance. The problem here is whether the public can find out on behalf of the official who holds the job. In addition, in these cases we encounter, and this practice has shown us, a stiffness in interpreting the issue of the protection of personal data. We are therefore witnesses to the fact that many in the public sector are using the protection of personal data to hide such information. In the LDS, we believe that this information is public, and that the public happens at a time when someone takes over the public function. This person must be aware that the performance of the function will also lead to public intrusion into his private sphere. In our opinion, the public rightly expects the use of public funds to be transparent. European directives also provide for the possibility of the protection of personal data being limited when it comes to the fundamental right to information to the public. In this law, however, we are confronted with a concept of law that, although we cannot deny the appearance of a good system law that sets out the rules of the game, unfortunately follows the principle that in the field laws it must be taxed and clearly stated that certain data is public, that such data can be transmitted to the public. We fear that in this way we will not achieve the goal that we are also pursuing. The right to information of a public nature is also a constitutional category. So we have two complementary, equally strong rights, so in this proposal for a personal data protection law we lack integrity in this part. We would like this law to specify more precisely the weighting criteria when two equal rights are struck that are constitutionally protected. We fear that if we do not do so, we will not make any substantial changes in this area by adopting this law. For we must not allow ourselves to increase the stiffness when much information is not made public, because partial rules will not cover them equally comprehensively. We also do not want to see an absurd situation in which we will even restrict access to public information in order to regulate this issue. In addition, the right to privacy, which is the personal right of each individual, is often interpreted as an option or right to protect functions, especially public functions. That's ridiculous. We will now, referring to the protection of personal data, hide the name of the official, because this is, however, his personal information and because this is supposed to prevail over the interest to information. In our opinion, in the public sector, we should follow the principle that everything that is not explicitly classified is public. Now is the opportunity to fully enforce the principle that the right to privacy can also be limited to another right or the right of the public to know. We will also work towards this in the Parliamentary Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the process of enacting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law at first reading. We are aware that this is an extremely sensitive area of interference with individual privacy, which is why the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support all those proposals in this law that will be convincing in terms of the protection of human rights in the field of interference with privacy and in view of the fact that there is no explicit constitutional prohibition that personal data should not be used in contravention of the purpose for which they have been collected. These will be two basic criteria for supporting Members and Members of our parliamentary group to the law and for individual possible follow-up proposals, further to the consideration of the law. The protection of personal data is the right set out in the chapter on human rights and freedoms and the Constitution itself sets out in which cases rights and freedoms can be restricted by the following formulation: human rights and fundamental freedoms are limited only to the rights of others and in the cases provided for in this Constitution. The law must therefore determine how a right can be exercised and, as far as the formulation of the explicit limitation of human rights is concerned, it is directly contrary to the constitutional text and the restriction of rights can only be linked to interference with the rights of others. The personal data protection law under consideration is mainly extended to those parts which define certain additional control mechanisms, and the concept of the law is not radically amended, but is in fact quite complementary. The proposed law still primarily protects the personal data of an individual, but it is also an extended purpose of the law, extending to the protection of the dignity of an individual. Such a change is in line with the general European efforts when, in relation to the protection of personal data, emphasis is placed no longer solely on the protection of the privacy of the individual but also on the protection of his dignity. The question of where does the protection of dignity go is, of course, a very wide field still unanswered. The governing legal basis for the processing of personal data is still in line with the proposal for a law and the personal consent of the data subject, but with a larger set of exceptions than that laid down in the law in force. I should point out that the informed consent to a one-off procedure should therefore be subject to the rules that a new authorisation is required for each subsequent intervention in the personal data collection. The adoption of the Act will bring the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia into line with the provisions of the European Directives and the Amsterdam Treaty, in particular Article 286 thereof. In doing so, however, it seems essential that harmonisation should not diminish the rights of the protection of personal data already enjoyed by the inhabitants of Slovenia or any other country at the level of national law. It also takes account of the implementation of constitutional provisions relating to the protection of personal data. It is also being complemented and modified on the basis of existing experience in practice. This will also ensure the proper application of comparative personal data law in the European Union in order to include good solutions to these laws. The judgment of the European Court of Justice in the field of the protection of personal data is also taken into account and the principle of proportionality is respected, in particular Article 3 which speaks of the processing of personal data. It requires that the processing be appropriate and appropriate to the extent appropriate in relation to the purposes for which the data is collected and further processed. The law also defines the processing of personal data. In doing so, I should only point out that provision which speaks of personal data being transmitted only in a prescribed manner. However, controllers of personal data must ensure adequate security, regardless of the form in which they are stored. They shall prescribe procedures and safeguards in their acts. The acts shall identify the persons responsible for the individual personal data sets. It is also not possible to overlook the fact that an inspectorate has already been introduced, which runs and maintains a register of personal data databases to be transmitted by personal data controllers within at least 15 days. The Inspectorate shall have the position of supervisory authority for the protection of personal data and its task shall be to ensure the uniform implementation of measures in the field of the protection of personal data. In this respect, we find it interesting that in 2002 only a few decades were provided to the Data Protection Inspectorate, namely 43 cases of personal data protection requirements. It could therefore be concluded that the infringement has set little or that the level of awareness of what an individual can do to protect information about himself is still relatively initial. We therefore believe that greater awareness and awareness of this should also be ensured. As it is said, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will consider the proposed text of the law as an appropriate basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a personal data protection law was transmitted, I think at the end of last month, and the Slovenian National Party, together with colleagues from the Youth Party, with colleague Mrs Pozsončeva, DeSUS, as well as Novo Slovenija, we requested a general discussion. Firstly, it seems to me that this written society, which could be even more perfect, is proof that we do not care about the content and principles of this law, which we will talk about in this process. Secondly, it seems fair to us that this general debate is held because it is a very sensitive subject and a very sensitive subject which, according to the general custom of one or the other, seems completely irrelevant to what it says, except until the moment that we are directly or indirectly involved in this content. When we examined the proposal for a personal data protection law, we noted six specific objectives of the law, of which we absolutely support three in the Slovenian National Party: that this harmonisation should not reduce the level of rights in the field of personal data protection, in order to respect the implementation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia 35., 38. and, I think, 87. and that additions and changes in the field of the protection of personal data based on assessments made in the practice of the protection of personal data in the Republic of Slovenia remain in those three objectives. In the Slovenian National Party - this is probably already familiar to you, but I will point out - in fact, we do care about that first objective, which speaks of achieving again the harmonisation of Slovenian personal data law with certain directives of the European Union. In the opening part of the law, many important things have been said very precisely. However, regardless of whether we are going to scrutinize the laws themselves, let me remind you, colleagues and colleagues, those who have read a little bit, say, only on page 30 in the upper corner, judicial protection, article 62, where one sentence is itself and says: "There is no appeal against the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this article."From which first paragraph, which article? That's how the laws are written and the articles are written. I'd probably get an answer if I asked if I couldn't read it. But it is clear to me that article 62 states: "No appeal is allowed against the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, but an administrative dispute is allowed." Nothing in this Article of the first paragraph, nor in any article. Well, there's more to such articles. This means that, or the tailor, in fact, it is also obvious that he is preparing personal data protection. It doesn't matter if Europe wants to, it'll know everything about - and I'll take myself as an example - Bogdan Barovic and someone else, because we're just getting along. That's not true. Colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the proposal of this law, it is worth talking about, it is worth talking about. And at least here, I hope that we are all united and united, regardless of the political, party and other nature of life in this country. We are all given dignity and the right to protect personal data. And one more thing. This law is also pointed out by other entities. We can talk about a very pressing problem that will arise, about video surveillance, about audio surveillance, about the appointment of persons, not least, if we decide, we will decide, I hope that at least one thing. If we name all those we're supposed to name, we'll name them and name them or anyone or anything with initials. And a second time. I hope that one day we will realize that whoever is already mentioned anywhere, at least that fundamental principle of a rule of law, that no one is to blame until proven guilty or vice versa. Everyone's innocent until the judiciary has proven guilty. I think that this is an important element in the proposal for a personal data protection law. I hope and wish that we will all rejoin it accurately, review each article and correct them, so that they achieve their objectives, especially to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So much less, I hope, we will focus again on Europe and European directives, which will, of course, invent everything they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My word, Mrs. Silva Crnugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I must admit, when I saw in the Rapporteur another proposal for a new Personal Data Protection Act, that I was extremely surprised and somehow cut my ears and wondered why and how. When I read the introductory points and saw that the reason for all the other laws was, in part, compliance with the other directives, as the initiator or the representative of the government said. Law and the law of the protection of personal rights is actually one lactose paper, kind of a tipper, which detects and tells how democratic the country that produces this legislation is. I can see that we are in this area with a rather rich legal practice. This was also mentioned in the opening statement as to how and in what way law was created in this area. Of course, the law is written in such a way, quite in principle, that anyone can confirm it and say that it is a suitable basis for consideration and further discussion. However, certain reservations and certain dilemmas remain. I can say that in my former practice, I have had the opportunity to host the publishing office, which I was the director of, the Data Protection Inspector, Mr Bogotaj. It was one of his first visits. That's when he went to public libraries, now general libraries. And I admit that the contact and discussion, and then not least all the other discussions that have taken place at this level, but also the transmission of all the databases that one library is capable of storing, have been at a normal level and far from having any negative impact on this visit. However, I have already asked him, and even now, not only a rhetorical question, but also a question that is very important in particular for the level of democracy, how with all those databases that the database holders or database managers are required to send in one way all these databases. This law also speaks of a register run by an inspector. The Ministry of Justice was once the custodian of these databases, and I was when I asked the inspector, and I am still asking myself today, despite the information and the fact that we have increasingly concentrated data on a smaller scale, what is happening to all these data obtained by the Ministry of Justice in one way and then stored. How do they cope, what do they do about it, and in what way? There is also talk of a series of sub-legislative acts, specifically on the methodology and how all of this will be done. What's happened so far? Since we have the opportunity to read in the Rapporteur, not only in this law, but in a series of other laws that we have amended, we have supplemented, either because of European legislation and directives, or because of the needs of our internal organisation and so on. What about the analysis of the situation so far? We usually list what it's like in other countries, how they feed, how they store, what submarital acts they have, the rules, who has the opportunity to look at and so on. But since it is now the third time that we have intervened in this matter in one way in this mandate, I wonder, because we are interfering in fact very comprehensively and quite differently, whether there has been a thorough analysis of how abuse is, not least because there have been concerns here, but also because we know that there is now quite a bit of controversy, that I am not saying precisely the affair, about how it is with the data, who has the right to publish them. Let us say in concrete terms what Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs said in the opinion of the Liberal Democracy, how it is with the institutions of public functions, how it is with their salaries, how it is with their data and how and when and in which situations it can be used. It's a public function. What's a public function? Is the public function of all 147 or 145 thousand who are employed and working in public administration or are only the top of this public administration? Is this clearly defined so that misinterpretation and misinterpretation do not occur again? And if I refer to dignity, to the question of whether you know, the public function is also the work of a director of a private company that manages a huge sum of resources, which is then one way of dividing them and making them publicly available to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the products of this private sector are used and used by each individual, and can be damaged or not know what they are all about. I say, already the definition of what a public function is, where all this information is, force is delicate. If we are to take a step forward, we will have to build on this, especially in the second phase, when the Ministry of Justice or who will agree to do these sub-legislative acts, methodologies and regulations, how and how it will define them. It is very important to me if we are to build a democratic state and a society where everyone will feel good about being free, free without any fear in this society. This is the definition of freedom in absolute terms for me, and it is, of course, to be expected, because we are pursuing such an extensive law reform project, that we will also pay attention and inform the public and each individual, how and how he can protect his rights with regard to the protection of personal data in which he can turn, in what way his data may require, in which case a whole decision on the protection of the rights of the individual, and in what way he may require them, in which bodies, how directly, etc. This is an excellent topic for discussion, which has endless possibilities, but for starters so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andre Bajuk to the floor. You don't want to. Mrs. Majda Potter, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Thank you. I would just like to share my personal experience with regard to the collection and publication of personal data. That's what we talked about. As I mentioned earlier that the law extended its competence in Article 1 to protect human dignity, it seems to me that the publication of data on the performance of an individual in the educational process is essential. Here I have a positive experience that in school practice the names of students and students who have passed the exam must no longer be published. Also, information on their performance on the telephone should not be given. This is just the kind of experience that, as it were said, already has designs for respect for human dignity. The second thing I would like to point out is that it seems to me that it is extremely important, above all, to inform about where and how we can protect our personal data, how we can protect our privacy. This seems to disagree with the fact that we are living in an information society where information gathering and information flow is essential, but I note that there is also some kind of debauchery that people give their data to those who often cannot prove to be authorized or qualified to do so. In particular, there are data abuses that we have seen recently mainly in financial transactions. If someone issues their data in online financial transactions, it can be fatal for him. But this is another question: who do we consider to be a suitable or inappropriate person or institution to collect such information? In fact, if an individual receives a guarantee that this information is taken by his bank, an unidentified authorised person, it may be misleading information and that such simplicity is, after all, as far as it is comprehensible. Of course, I have another position to make regarding privacy and video surveillance. Sometimes I feel like I'm going to Orwell's book in 1984. On the one hand, when the issue of security is being weighed, and on the other hand the issue of privacy protection, our judgment to set the border line often depends on our current position. If we are in the role of one in charge of security, for example, some institutions, the measures are much more focused on tightening control. But if we are the ones under control, we often prefer to be on the side where there would be less control. That's completely understandable. So, say, let me just draw your attention to some initiative that I've been following. For example, in one of its demands, a group working for a nice school has also made a request for the removal of school security personnel. These are now the issues that we can discuss how to draw the line between ensuring security and respecting privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would ask the government how it thinks about protecting the personal data obtained during the previous regime, how the government thinks about regulating it, or we will have to put in a law by Members or members of the group that will properly regulate this data. We can't just go in here and say, because nothing's happened, there's no data. This data is, and it's not just personal data, birth, date, and where it's staying, but it's about his activity, his crimes, how he's treated, who he's related to, who I don't know what he's doing. How we deal with this is a very important question. The following, which would be considered to be stopping, are biometric data in the context of medicine, health care, then psychological activities. As far as psychological activity is concerned, you know that there are also tests, not just a test of intelligence, there are other things, a multifactor battery of tests that takes into account, I don't know, seven or eight factors, and then there are personality tests in professional counseling, all of which are collected on data, they are exchanged. What was the level of protection in the field of work and employment was the requirement of the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs for a set of data identifying the person, his personal level, his characteristics, social situation, "manki" human, personality and so on. While this law should follow the principle that the State should avoid collecting data, those which are not necessarily needed to go as far as possible to the needs of the public authorities after collection, the practice is shown in a completely different light that the need to collect data is enormous, the gluttony is shown by the functioning of the administrative authorities and the various authorities of the country. This is also contrary to the principles of labour rationalisation. Here the effect of rationalizing the labor force is modest, but the data at all ends. The level of protection, sometimes collected in materialised form, closed in a closet or in a safe, is now mainly stored in a digital record. However, the possibility of misuse to distribute data, purely individual, is very high, especially since it is a system of connecting signs. The identification mark is practically for all databases either a tax number or an EMSO. And when you decode that, you have access to any database. It's fantastic to work with. Then there is a question which I have already raised several principles on behalf of the Group of Members. It's controlling people through different systems, hacking into his private system. These are personal data obtained illegally. You state the abuse and illegality of data collection and also sanctioning, but how, if the state is not equipped with this equipment, you will discover those villains who do this. The state doesn't have the equipment to do this, so don't get it because it says it doesn't have the money. The government buys falcon, they don't have the money to control these black market monitors. Six machines were imported, none of them went to the state service, all went elsewhere. This is worrying, people are asking questions about it. We need to ask ourselves in these cases whether we have a legal system, including this law, so that we can have the right basis for a successful prosecution of crime. This is also in connection with employment, the ability of state authorities, the criminal police. The issue of police equipment, the employment of the criminal police or organs is immediately raised, and I do not know which. Even if we meet all legal, submarital, technical criteria and requirements, there will be problems of abuse and a number of new areas will open up. Genetic changes, treatment of infertility, the issue of seed donation, organ donation, sex cells, this all opens up to science, then genetic engineering, all associated with personal data. During the time that we will have at our disposal to adopt laws, we will have to carefully weigh the solutions and improve this. Basically, we don't think it's bad. I think it's going in the right direction, too, but it's going to have to be upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I invite Aloys Sok to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Dear Chairman! My fellow Members and Members have listened very carefully to the opinions of the Group of Members, and I will be very pleased to see that what I have heard in the opinion of the LDS Group, that they will advocate that this law will have more of the right content, that it will determine more consistently what the secret data is, that it will separate between the private and the public, and that they will advocate that the salaries and addenda of officials in this country will be a public matter. When I was last night, as well as those who watched the latest reports, Odessa, we were able to hear that last year, the authors' fees in Slovenia amounted to eight billion. In these copyright fees, most of the participants were people who are officials in this country, but because of the confidentiality of the data, the public cannot know exactly who they are. I do not believe that these same people will now make a law that will allow transparency in this area. I just can't believe it. One of the ministers was supposed to get 19 million dollars in copyright fees. But now this minister in the government is going to vote for such a marriage, which will allow people who have the right and need to know, because it is the taxpayer's money. Will they really find out? If you propose such a law, of course, we will all be happy to vote in favour of such a law. I have read how much we are discussing and adopting all these laws in all these endless procedures before entering the European Union, and I am particularly interested in the arrangements in the Member States of the European Union. But from what's written here in the rapporteur, you can't find out. It says everywhere they've got this. The way they've arranged it, of course, the ones you've been preparing this stuff, you haven't written it down. And this content, this explanation of the comparative review in other countries, is empty in this Rapporteur. And that, of course, leads me to believe that you are not serious by saying that you will make one good law in this area, which we undoubtedly and truly need. What I'm missing, and I understand it's going to be worked out, is a catalogue of personal data. What is personal data, anyway? What will be added to your personal data? However, if it is as you wrote in the objectives and principles of this law, where you say that the EU Directive is being implemented, the number, I don't know, 95-46 EES, that the level of current data protection should not be reduced, there is no change in this area. Do we need, I wonder, a new marriage? Maybe just because of this new way of acting, law enforcement and regulation through video surveillance. Maybe just for that. This is a very important area. Who, how, when, under what conditions can he exercise video control? Is it really acceptable for every employer to install a video camera in every workplace? Can we make glass objects out of our people that we can see through? If they can monitor someone at every step, every move, then, of course, with all these huge data that we're collecting through different databases today, a person actually becomes a glass person through whom he can easily look and see at any moment. I don't want to go wide about this law, because it's been said a lot, but I want one thing that really bothers me, and I don't know how you're going to fix it, but I'm going to describe it on a practical case, because it's the easiest way to actually present the problem. I don't know why there has to be a residence in some country. It's the right place where someone resides. It's classified. That's just incomprehensible to me. Since we're protecting this as classified information, we've got a whole bunch of different problems. Now I'm going to go over the example that actually made me sign up for the word and when I realized that the actual data on a person's residence in our country is classified. I could not see whether this was the case in other EU Member States. I don't know. You'll be able to answer that. In the evening magazine, I read about two years ago an article where a lady named Ankica Logar from Orehova said that she had signed with the name Ankica Logar from Orehova village, very brutally insulted one of my friends, after the profession of priest, over the priests and the Roman Catholic Church, even though the articles in the newspapers are as much as you want, I would say, offensive, more interesting for this media space. Through this article, she invited everyone else, and everyone who agrees with me, please write. It's an invitation. And then it does happen that different authors, encouraged by such writings, begin writing. I wanted to see who this lady really was. And that's when I realized, after one relationship I just had, after checking the population register, that this person doesn't exist. It wasn't there. And when I texted the lady who was regulating the readers' letters in the newspaper, she threatened to sue me for breaking the secret information law. This is a practical example of this. That I broke the law and that it would make me do it. Maybe she even proposed to me. I don't know. I haven't received any subpoenas from the court before today, so I can get one. Even now that I've made this public. But is that admissible, I ask? Is it possible that someone with a fake name can sign, someone is most perversely insulted, calls all citizens, if you know anything else, write that it will be more interesting, that there will be more oil on the fire spilled, that we will overlay someone more. Is it appropriate, then, that the data of its existence is a secret information and that such a person does not really exist? It is said that someone can sign with any name and surname, since the law on the confidentiality of data protects him and does not need to be disclosed where he resides. If that were possible, then it wouldn't have happened. Here you write in this explanation that the main solutions are to protect the dignity of each individual. Does this protect the dignity of the individual mentioned in this way? No, it's not protected. Protected is the person who allowed herself to be signed by a false name. She's protected while the one who showed up in the media is not. That's one example. And I would really like to hear the reasons why someone under a false name can't be identified when protecting a marriage through a place of residence. As a result of this, many problems arise because people do not live on certain addresses, they have problems with different institutions when they cannot deliver their mail and so on. I wonder whether you will resolve this matter or what are the arguments that the place of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia belongs to classified information, or whether I am wrong. Or maybe I'm wrong because I was misinterpreted. But I know this is the way it's regulated. When I was still working at the inspection body, we had to ask other civil servants in writing to contact us with a name, address, or exact residence, if I wanted to be hot to someone, I don't know, a decision, a decision, or something else. So I had to write to this body that runs this register in writing, and then they answered me in writing. Is it really necessary for public authorities in this country to communicate in this way? Or in this law, which I have not now observed, you will change this matter to make it easier for these authorities to communicate more easily with each other and that we will actually become a European comparable country in the field of data protection. Let me get this straight. This law is extremely important. I am glad that this is where this general debate took place in Parliament. It is a pity that no more Members have responded and said in practice what is going on so that they can get some real content. Once again, I will be very pleased to see what the representative of the largest group has said in her speech. Unfortunately, however, I fear that, as it is set out, this is not the intention, because in fact, those officials who belong to this largest political party will be exposed, because the opposition actually has very, very few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you very much. And at the end, if Mr. Secretary of State would like a word? Mr. Marko Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I would try to address at least some of the concerns and questions as systematically as possible. First, the relationship between the public and the private sector and also the obligations we have for the European Union. In particular, according to our constitutional practice, it is essential for the collection of data in the public sector to have a legal basis, a special legal basis in sectoral laws and not in general legislation. We have already talked about the requirements of the European Union. The European Union is particularly interested in the private sector in the directive, which is also one of the main motives for proposing the adoption of a new law, so that the protection of personal data would not be an obstacle to trade. While the public sector allows Member States to regulate it as they think it is most appropriate, with minor exceptions. The European Union has even been advised to have a similar system in both the private and public sectors, so that the system law covers practically both areas at the same time, and in this context it could also collect personal data from public authorities without a specific legal basis. Because of our past constitutional practice and precisely because of the sensitivity of this area, which also stems from the tradition of the previous system, the proposaler was here - and, as I tell you, it was not easy to explain this to the European Commission - mainly limited to keeping the concept largely as is known by the current Personal Data Protection Act. Thus, it remains important for the public sector to have a specific legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data. As a result, only this can be said that and all the questions about what is justified and what is not justified will be regulated by special rules, including the Public Sector Wages Act. In adopting these laws, the legislator will have to take care of this proportionality in the legislative procedure, or will eventually take care of this proportionality later on by the Constitutional Court. This law governs part of the protection, does not work for the public. The question of what is public, what is available to the public and under what conditions is the subject of the Public Information Act. And the criteria or criteria for weighing various interests cannot enter into this law, for this would practically put this law above all others. Our legislative or constitutional system is such that laws are made. The purpose of the system law is to lay down fundamental principles, to establish mechanisms for how protection in this area can be achieved by an individual. The Constitutional Court has so far been very, very strict in this regard. As regards the records collected by the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice, as proposed by law, creates a catalogue of catalogues or collections. It is not a personal data selection, but only a list of who and whose data each other collects. What has happened so far to the Ministry of Justice and what will continue when this law is passed at the Inspectorate, this is not a database, a personal data archive, but just a list of which collections all exist in the Republic of Slovenia. The issue of abuse and the prevention of abuse, as well as the eventual equipment of law enforcement authorities, is not the subject of this law. However, we believe that the legal basis is sufficient to effectively prosecute such abuses. Persecution of abuses by this law, as well as by existing law, is also possible for infringements that have arisen, or for infringements that arise today, but their source is older, also in the previous system, as is the result of an explanation when protection has not been regulated or has not been systematically regulated. It's about communicating with each other. After amending the Administrative Procedure Act, this communication is possible directly. There are certain restrictions and there is no free exchange of information. An individual may still prevent his data from being exchanged between the public authorities. This option is already under the current regime. On the question of residence. The case cited shows in some way that there has been a violation of the rights of persons who have been offended through the media and there is a legal possibility of how to sanction such violations, both civil and criminal. In this procedure, when an editor is sued, a source may be obtained unless the editor of that source refuses to issue it under certain other conditions. But in any case, protection is given here. I would point out once again that this is a system of rules which mainly regulates procedures and fundamental principles, and therefore the issue of the regulation of archives created at a time when effective legal protection was not available in this area cannot possibly come into this law. A change or addition in this area would in fact result in a significant imbalance in this. As to nature itself, how to resolve these issues with archives. Access and the system is a matter of special regulation or constitutional judicial cracking if no special arrangement occurs. So much for these questions. End of story on video surveillance. Video surveillance came into this marriage precisely because so far there has been a legal void in this area. There was a legal void in this area and the actual situation is simply different. There is video surveillance, despite the fact that there is no legal basis. And if, even in principle and with the appropriate principles of proportionality, this would not be regulated, it would in some way mean that video surveillance should be prohibited. Therefore, in this part, as some other legislation regulates, the proposer has also tried to regulate this matter at this level in this law. Of course, it is possible, or even desirable, that district laws define this even more precisely. Other areas such as biometry and the issue of infringements by modern information means are complex issues that are not yet resolved or resolved in other legislation. Thus, the working groups in the European Commission are set up on this subject and the question is whether and to what extent personal data are included and where the borders are and, in particular, who is capable and competent for such prosecutions. In any event, the law gives the inspectorate and the courts, in particular, the starting points and the possibility that they will be able to develop and perhaps even overtake legislation elsewhere in this area. Without basic starting points, without principles and some procedural mechanism, this is significantly harder than it is with them. In conclusion, I would only say that the proposed concept of the law is based mainly on our experience of constitutional protection and the conviction of the Constitutional Court that in this area specific arbitration on specific cases is not admissible, but that this arbitration must be made by the legislator. This concept is being followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr Sok, I have no business opportunity to give you my word, and the general debate is concluded. Unfortunately, Mr Sok, you can't get a word because we have our first hearing and at first reading, no, Mr Sok, please don't embarrass me. [[...]] I would like to give you my word, but we are at first reading, we have moved the positions of the groups of Members then the Members and Members. We do not have a time limit on this point, so I am concluding the general debate. But I think there's going to be a huge amount of time in the second reading to clear up. No, there are no procedural issues, rules of procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Can You Explain to Me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u129	No, I didn't give you my word, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Didn't you say a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u131	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u132	Oh, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We will not explain how it runs No, we only have one rule of procedure talking At this point the government has done its job, answered the question. [[..]] [[..]] [[...]] The marriage is at first reading. Today we have had the opportunity to express our views on this law, to work on it in the context of the second reading, and we know that, in fact, we all know very well. We will now move on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. May I have your attention, please? The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, the first consideration, is appropriate for further consideration. We will decide on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, against 4. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for their cooperation. And we're going to continue with reading 15. POINTS OF THE DAY, THAT IS, WITH DEFINITIVELY, THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE LEGISLATION IN THE HEALTH - Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I warmly welcome the representative of the Ministry of Health and invite him to the floor for an additional explanation of the bill. Among us is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Mr Simon Vrhunetec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u134	Madam Vice President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Why this marriage? In reviewing the comparative tables of the Slovenian acquis, the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union, the European Commission has pointed out to Slovenia that it does not have adequate legal arrangements in the field of internal transport and imports after the date of accession to the European Union. The individual laws in force, several laws from different areas, defined imports as any entry of goods into the customs territory of the Republic of Slovenia and internal traffic as traffic in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. If the Republic of Slovenia had not corrected this problem by 1 May, there could be serious problems in dealing with other countries. Therefore, in essence, these laws need to be amended. As a result, the Health Department has decided to propose a change of several laws at once to the government and to the National Assembly. It is therefore essential to define imports as any entry of goods into the customs territory of the EU from EU Member States, including the Republic of Slovenia. The internal market means the geographical area of all EU Member States, including the Republic of Slovenia. The transport of goods and services between Member States should therefore be separated or separated from the transport of goods and services with third countries. The fundamental principle or purpose of the law is to ensure compliance with the EU acquis, to ensure the free movement of goods between Member States and in all laws, at least in this case in the field of health, health and health, to define concepts such as imports and internal transport. With the proposed law, we propose to intervene in the law on chemicals, the law on cosmetic products, the law on communicable diseases, the law on precursors to illicit drugs, the law on production of illicit drugs, the law on medicines and medical devices, the law on health inspection, the law on the health adequacy of food and products, and substances that come into contact with food. The law is proposed for discussion in the National Assembly and for adoption. In this way, of course, let us also coordinate this open issue, which we must resolve by the year 1.5. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I call on the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. The Committee considered this package law at its 20th emergency meeting, 13.4. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. With regard to constitutional or legal system-wide compliance, she did not have any comments, except for the comment on the very approach to amending or supplementing several laws with a single law. Specific comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service on Articles 1, 2, 7, 14 and 27. No amendments were tabled to the bill. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and with the cooperation of the proposer, the Committee drew up and adopted its amendments by 1, 2, introducing a new Article 3a to 7, introducing a new Article 7a and Articles 12, 14, 33 and 34. There was no debate on the individual articles of the law and the Committee also unanimously supported all the articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Government representatives will probably agree that this set of laws could be adopted six months ago with effect from 1 May. But now we're in a time-consuming situation. That's what you offered. Similarly, these laws have already been dealt with in the last year, most of them. At that time, an appendix was also attached, where it was written, and the law was in line with the rules of the European Union. That wasn't true back then. Only now will the truth be possible, but after May 1st can something else be realized that it is not yet harmonised. Of course, I allow experts or government officials to sometimes err or forget. But to work this way and to inform the national assembly that this is all harmonised, and then to find that it is not harmonised, it is not fair, it is not right. Of course, this law will not be opposed by the National Assembly, as we will not oppose it, but we will not give support simply because of this relationship. However, if I touch on these health issues, I would like to point out that the ruling coalition of the Income Act has not supported those amendments relating to implementation in order to be exempt from insurance contributions to the weakest layers, the most affected, the most disabled and so on. Without anyone reading the amendment, you've all pressed the keys and triggered it. Although Mr Keber then advocates this very idea in health reform, this is precisely the solution that we proposed in the amendment. The total loss of credibility in this National Assembly and obviously we will continue to introduce ourselves in this way. The opinion of the parliamentary group is, therefore, not to oppose these changes, because we want this to be done not because of the European Union country, but because of the citizens of the other Member States of the European Union, but especially us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We'll support the marriage. However, we like the fact that this time, in this case, the proposaler has not somehow abused this intolerance when concluding the alignment of the legal order of our system with the European Union system and has proposed what is the true object of this harmonisation and, as a result, the very debate on such a law has bound us up very little to see and a little to open to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. In one package we will adopt amendments or additions to eight laws. Indeed, changes and additions are significantly less important and are indeed in line with the requirements of the European Union. The first is the chemical law, we changed it last June, we adopted the law's copy last November, and now we're going to change it again. Every time there's a little bit of change. The Cosmetic Products Act: We changed it last June, we adopted the officially refined text in November, and now we will change it again, not comprehensively, but - we will change it. It's a law on infectious diseases. At the request of the Constitutional Court since March this year, since the Constitutional Court has said that it is inconsistent with the Constitution, this change has not been taken into account. We will coordinate with the European Union, but the demands of the Constitutional Court that it is in breach of the Constitution because it does not solve and address the issue when parents refuse compulsory vaccination, we have not arranged it now, probably in a few months or in the next term. Then the Law on the Prior Substances for illicit drugs was amended in June last year, in November, in an officially refined text and now again the amendment. Health Inspection Act: last December we amended it, saw in the Official Journal the light of February this year, the official consolidated text was published in the Official Journal on 13 April - gentlemen - this year, and now we are modifying it again. It's a strange attitude towards health legislation! On this basis, however, the Ministry may be able to show some rich statistics on the treatment of laws, instead of 8 laws, 24, three times eight is 24. How much we take into account and how much we accept the demands of the European Union, it is clear from the fact that it is only when the European Union, when someone grabs us as a "crowd" or then the ministry reacts and changes the law. Only then! Look at the case. Last February, you must have heard. You all knew what happened to pesticides in the Ljubljana pipeline. At that time, the Ministry adopted a regulation which voluntarily raised the level of pesticide concentrations in drinking water to 0.2 micrograms per litre, while the requirements of the European Union were 0.1. At that time, the Ministry said: "Yes, for three years. Of course, it takes so much for a city utilities company to rebuild the network, I guess. I don't know. But despite warnings, despite serious warnings, so far the Ministry has not addressed this error. Only on the basis of Gorazad Pretnar's and Anton Komat's action did the administrative court in Ljubljana, yesterday, as you probably heard from the media, ask the minister to abolish this order or the administrative court in Ljubljana found that this order is illegal because it is contrary to the requirements of the European Union. But that's all right! The minister won't fix it until someone grabs him as a tailor. It's about the health of the people! It is 85,000 Ljubljanans who drink contaminated drinking water, where there is a great risk of carcinogens. Such an attitude towards change and the European Union's requirements is inconclusive. But not only to the European Union, but to the demands of patients, to the demands of the population, to the health of the population. Free all kind words, how much we care for our loved and poor sick Slovenes, but if we do not follow these demands that we must follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! On 1 May 2004, Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union. Article 1 of the Accession Treaty provides that all acceding countries shall become members of the European Union and parties to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. This means that, as from 1 May, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged, in accordance with the Treaty of Accession, to implement the legal order of the European Union and also to eliminate any non-compliance with the rules and contractual provisions. The Treaty establishing the European Community requires, inter alia, the elimination of all obstacles to the free movement of goods such as customs and duties with the same effect. The European Commission has pointed out to Slovenia that it does not have an adequate legal regime in the field of internal transport and imports after the date of accession to the EU, and the sanctions for non-regulation of this problem could be a prison until entry into the common European market for Slovenian producers. A major change after the entry into the European Union is that, by European law, imports of goods into the customs territory of the Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Slovenia, and not only into the customs territory of the Republic of Slovenia. After Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the internal market, it means the geographical area of all the Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Slovenia. It is essentially a technical law that eliminates differences in individual rules and thus aligns our legislation with the legal order of the European Union. In all eight proposed health laws that are changing, arrangements are introduced in a uniform way to allow for smooth traffic between the Member States of the European Union and lays down imports and exports as recognised by the rules of the European Union. Due to new powers, the competent authorities for border and internal control shall be amended. The law regulates this by replacing "customs offices" with the words "customs offices". The term 'third country', which includes countries that are not members of the European Union or which have not concluded an agreement with the European Union on the European Economic Area, is also introduced. The law also coordinates the procedures for obtaining a marketing authorisation for medicinal products under the European legal order. Therefore, in Article 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, new indents are added between the terms and definitions which introduce new terms and definitions concerning the procedures for obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products which will enter into force on the date of entry into force of the European Union. The bill was considered at the 20th urgent meeting of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, where nine amendments were adopted. The content of these amendments is largely followed by comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service and the College's conclusion that the substance of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of health is merely the introduction of a regime allowing for smooth traffic between the Member States of the European Union and provides for imports and exports, as is known by EU customs rules. In the LDS, we believe that the law as a whole is properly prepared, so we will support it. We will also support the amendment tabled by the Group of Members, which preserves the current provisions of Article 13 of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The assessment of the state, reasons, objectives, solutions and principles proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Health Laws has been heard in my colleagues' speeches. Allow me, with the promise of the Vice-President, to be very brief now. In the Slovenian National Party, we have notes that I will just say and take them for good or bad. Since Slovenia has been negotiating and negotiating its accession to the European Union since its independence, it has already assumed all the obligations it has been waiting for. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, our negotiators and legal experts should know that part of Slovenian legislation is also changing in this area, which we are talking about today. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves honestly where the reason for changing the legal order in such a sensitive area as health care and the movement of goods and services in as many laws as possible. The second thing we are interested in in the Slovenian National Party is that, despite the fact that it says that the financial consequences, as we have already been trained, are not there any calculations by the government as to how the free movement of goods will affect domestic production and domestic sales. These are just two questions that we are asking about the content of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain health laws. I hope at least we get some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. We have on our hands one amendment to Article 16, the amendment's proposal is a group of ten Members with first-signed Alexander Merl. I am opening the debate on Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. I'm asking, who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Government Representative? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 16. We're moving to the vote. I invite ambassadors and ambassadors to the hall. For the first time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 16. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. The second time we will vote on the amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against 1. (The vote was 42.)( Against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I ask, since the amendment was adopted in article 16, which of the qualified candidates would like to table an amendment? No one's in the third hearing. I ask the legislative and legal service and the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether the amendment adopted may have led to a discrepancy in the text of the law? No, thank you very much. We can therefore move on to a decision on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to Treatment 16. Agenda items, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosperity Reserves - an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. Among us is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy, Mr Matjaž Logar, and I welcome him very much on this occasion. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Mr. Aloys Sok, it's written by Mr. Petty Officer. Mr Sok, please take the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Thank you very much. So it's another law that we change so quickly in the National Assembly. In fact, it's only one article to be corrected. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to something that we have repeatedly pointed out in the opposition, namely the fact that the current Slovenian government has taken advantage of every moment when the price of oil on the world market has usually fallen, the government has increased its excise duties, while vice versa, when this dollar price has fallen, the government has increased only the price. According to our calculations, for example, on 18 March 2003, the oil barrel was worth $32.72, which was after the course of the Bank of Slovenia, 219 Slovenian tolars worth 7,183 and the price of gasoline at the time was 180 tolars. On 31 March this year, the oil judge was equal, that is 32 dollars and 61 dollars, and at the rate of the bank found 194 tolars, or if we calculate it, the barrel of oil in Slovenian tolars was worth 6,152 Slovenian tolars. So if we compare the course, the movement of the dollar rate against the Slovenian tolar, we can see that the actual price of oil on the world market has been reduced by 14 wholes and a few percent, while the price of petrol increased by 6.5% in the same period, or 11.8 Slovenian tolars. If we sum this up, we can see that in one year the price increased by about 20% compared to the rate movement in Slovenia. So it seems to me that when we adopt this law on oil reserves, which contains only one article, it is irrelevant to discuss this. It seemed important to me to point out how the current Slovenian government takes advantage of every opportunity and raises once the price of gasoline and once only excise duty. So today we're at the price of 95-octane gasoline - it costs 192,60 tolars. If we take into account and adapt to prices on the world market and also take into account the dollar rate, the price of 95-octane gasoline in Slovenia could be approximately 165 Slovenian tolars. So, I also pointed out this because of the public presence, but as far as this article governing the supply reserves is concerned, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Respectable. Even in our parliamentary group, we do not oppose this change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is indeed a minor change or, to the extent that it is a quantity, we think that, given that only one article is changing, it is of course an important change, as regards the setting up of an equal opportunity to take place throughout the EU's Member States as regards the entry of oil and its derivatives into the EU's customs territory. We cannot, of course, overlook the general comment that, with this small change and the known information that the government has certainly had far before today, so that we can make this change long ago, and it is in fact unjustifiable and unfair that, at the moment that it is so much more important in the national assembly, we are dealing with such, otherwise important, things that could be resolved substantially earlier. So we will not object to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Blaze Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u152	Respectable. The proposed amendments to the law do not alter the basic principles and objectives of the law dating back to 1995 and 1999. By amending and supplementing, we understand that we are primarily allowing for continued smooth financing and thus the functioning of the Slovenian Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. We therefore redefine the users of the economic public service and set out the obligation to report to the Ministry responsible for supply and to the Slovenian Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union changes the customs territory of Slovenia to the customs territory of the Member States of the European Union and it is therefore necessary to adapt the term 'import'. It is also necessary to ensure the smooth financing and functioning of the mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives, financed by a special refund paid by distributors and importers, and to adapt the law, as the content of this amendment, in order to ensure that Slovenia fulfils its obligation to develop 90-day reserves of derivatives by the end of 2005. That is why we will support the proposal for a law at the LDS House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to make an application in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor the legislature of the National Assembly have informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That's why we're going to move on to the law. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE SLOVENIA DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY AND THE STOPMENT OF THE SLOVENIA AGENCY FOR PRESTRUCTUTION AND PRIVATEMENT, The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would a government representative like a word for further explanation of the law? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I call on the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u154	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! This proposed law is intended to transfer the rights and powers enjoyed by the Slovenian Development Society, the SRD, on the basis of certain laws and other regulations and the related assets at the DSU, that is to the consulting and management society. This company is also expected to receive all outstanding liabilities and liabilities that are not paid in the SRD liquidation procedure. It follows from the introduction of the draft law that the liquidation of the SRD in the request, i.e. this application for liquidation, of the bodies of the European Union, should also be the reason for this, in order to remove this company from the Registry of Justice as soon as possible. In doing so, it is important to take into account the fact that certain activities of the SRD were not in accordance with the rules of the European Union on the granting of State aid and that this law, with the exception of the provisions of the fourth chapter of Articles 26 to 31, is fully repealed by the application of the proposal for a law. The powers conferred by the SRD under Article 29 shall be taken over and exercised by the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee also considered and adopted proposals for amendments to the legislative and legal services and adopted an updated proposal for a law which is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u156	It may seem to many that it is a simple task, partly to harmonise our legal legislation and our reality in the economic field with the directives of the European Union and some administrative measure to eliminate Slovenian development society. At the same time, we could think a little more deeply - we are liquidating the Slovenian development company that has carried out the key transition business. The transition business, through which state property or then social property by Kardel’s definition were passed into the hands of a handful of people, now rich, who are now gathering in boxes and talking about how they are going to establish a social state. I'm a mischievous cynic! Many Slovenian families have been put into misery by their actions. And now this Slovenian development society is supposed to be liquidated, in order to end the business, in order to suspend the powers and transfer them to another company, named after them, and the reason comes in handy. The European Union has said that we do not need such phantom works in order to avoid the implementation of inadequate financial assistance or the assistance of the state in the market. If we wanted to comply with the directives of the European Union, we could amend the existing law on Slovenian Development Society, which, of course, will now have to be repealed sooner or later. For you have annulled this Slovenian development company as a commissioner, which has essentially carried out these restructuring activities and also the sale of state property for the purpose of the State's powers. Now you have liquidated the commissioner who is supposed to ensure that the funds, as many as there are, are met by the obligations of some to the State. The transfer of these legal transactions, powers to another company, reduces the power to control, audit and also sanction. In the face of problems in Elan, I have asked a clear question as to what is the situation with these 8 or 7 billion and a half national assets. How can we get that money that was misallocated back to the country? They said, "No," because there is a commission, a Slovenian development society and it has full powers to care for this property. Here we go, boys! And now we're liquidating this and establishing someone else called DSU. At the same time, more than 80 billion damages to state property are being raised. The perpetrators must be persecuted, the state's attorney, Popoviceva, has made this clear on the committee that proceedings should be initiated. The Attorney-General was invited and, in view of the facts, as follows from the data and from the documentation, that the actions should be brought and those actions were not brought, the Economic Committee decided that the work of the Attorney-General in relation to privatisation should be decided on its responsibility. Prime Minister Rob avoided it, and they haven't done it yet. Perhaps now, however, the Attorney-General of Cerarov herself will propose, because she is the Minister of Justice, that her work be discussed in the government and also a decision on responsibility. For these reasons, we also obstructed the meeting of the committee in the New Slovenia Group. We're not going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Parties are certainly in the final stages of advocating the end of this sad story, according to our assessment, that the Slovenian Development Society should be abolished and that there should be a story that was certainly not the brightest for Slovenia, at least for its history. This will be investigated by historians. I hope that the documentation will not be destroyed and that it will also be possible for our researchers to identify how we have owned social property and who and how illegal property and the exploitation of Slovenian property have occurred. We will not now talk about what happened, but we all know that the Slovenian Development Society has been a mass gravedigger of Slovenian companies and also the loss of a large number of jobs, huge state assets, because in the Slovenian Development Society there are really capable people who knew how to own state property, and this illegally many times, and you are not responsible for it. Our assessment is also that before the adoption of this law, which somehow abolishes two societies and establishes a new society, two companies, which were thus 100% owned by the State, abolishes and establishes one new company, which will once again be 100% owned by the State; all competences and unfinished tasks are transferred to this new society, so the question of the meaning of such doing is raised. What's in the background will show up next. But we estimate that before this new company should be established or even possible to adopt this law, a report on the completion of ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society should be thoroughly processed. We don't know the reasons, we don't know the reasons why this process stopped, we had a subcommittee on the Economic Committee. From one comma that happened about two years ago, something like that, if we remember, just doesn't work anymore. The Committee on the Economy, which is empowered as the main committee or as the parent committee, has also stopped discussing these matters. Whether we will ever consider these reports again or not - but our assessment is that we should first complete some other works and then just accept or abolish some companies and start new ones. Regrettably, the legislative and legal service has found that the proposal for a law is insufficiently prepared to blur things out with this bill and so on, a whole series of comments. The Committee, however, tried to table some amendments. Let us hope that the information, as I have said, and that all documentation will not be lost and that it will also be possible to look back when the authorities change, how it is carried out, and also all those responsible for the unlawfully owned and illegally owned justly then lead to the final verdict. Our parliamentary group will not oppose this bill, but it probably does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by mag. Blaze Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u160	Respectable. After the battle it can be a general and the story of the Slovenian Development Society is, of course, necessary and possible to connect with the concept and reality of Slovenian privatisation. The Slovenian privatisation model may not have been the best, but it was probably the least bad. It would, of course, be highly critical to assess it, especially if it were assessed with the criteria of Mr Pleskovic 15 years ago, and if we forgot what the results of his theory had been achieved in some of the European economies, then, of course, we would have a much broader action radio for the debate. However, since the calendar has turned around, but we can find that in many cases the Slovenian privatisation model can be assessed with a positive assessment, the Slovenian hands remain above average high participation in Slovenian banks and in the industrial sector. Of course, many criticisms can also be justified, and we were also interested in the Liberal Democracy Club when it began to talk about the necessity of adopting the law on the liquidation of the SRD, or, indeed, where there is a desire for something to be swept under the carpet, whether there are other reasons here. On the basis of the proposals, we could only conclude that the fundamental need for the liquidation of this institution of the SRD is that it is necessary to comply with the European Union's support and incentives to the economy. However, the concept of this law preserves the continuity of monitoring all information relevant to the assessment of past and current events and the investment of state money in recovery and the promotion of the economy. Therefore, by adopting this law, the DSU will assume all outstanding obligations, obligations for which creditors have not declared their claims in the liquidation process, and any other obligations of the SRD that have not been paid or will not be paid in the liquidation process of the Slovenian Development Company, and, of course, also guarantee their fulfilment with all their assets. In the LDS, we therefore believe that the bill is well prepared, necessary and will therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we will move on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 36 votes against 9. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. POINT OF THE DAY - TO CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economy, Mr Matjaž Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have already talked around this bill quite a lot on the Committee on the Economy. As I have already explained, the proposal for a law has been incorporated into the urgent procedure for the purpose of aligning the law with the requirements of the European Union or the legal order of the European Union in particular in the non-harmonised field, as it relates mainly to the language requirements or the exclusive use of Slovenian language in labelling on products. In addition, the law has part of the law, which means compliance with the directive on the provision of distance financial services. We must align this by autumn of this year and not come back in a few months with the regular coordination process, we have decided to include this part. As part of the Committee's debate, this part was actually not disputed. The proposals to Articles 2 and 5 were controversial, where we aligned the text of the law with the requirements and legal order of the European Union, where major debates and amendments to these two articles were adopted. I would like once again to call on Members and Members to reconsider this decision on the Committee, i.e. the amendments adopted do not constitute a text that was in line with the European Union, and we will not be harmed in this part of this law. I ask Members and Members to reconsider your position and to assess that, nevertheless, this position could be directed to part or adopt the text of the law - not perhaps in the text proposed by the Government, but in a text that would allow for the use of understandable words, untranslated, in Articles 2 and 5 to weigh this decision and make a different decision in this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The bill was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body, and the Committee's report is on the table. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite you to take the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u164	We therefore have before us changes and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. The proposal contains some provisions that improve the situation of the consumer, but there are even more provisions that actually give him less opportunities to exercise his rights on the market. We must assume that the consumer is in a worse position than the producer or distributor, so we find some solutions inappropriate. If we go in line, we can, according to the articles, find that, within the meaning of Article 4 concerning reparation, if there has been a mistake on the product, that this proposal is a solution offered by the Government - it is much more favourable for the consumer in the current law and thus becomes worse with the new law; how to prove what the procedure is. According to theology, and in this respect, he's getting worse. It is also worse within the meaning of Article 5 and therefore the amendment on proof of error and damage is also a proposal. If we had adopted a consumer union dictatorship, this situation would in fact have drawn closer to the same situation as the consumer had with this law before harmonisation takes place. We believe that the dictatorship is not incompatible with the European Union. Article 24 on a company selling defective goods which will be short-lived, the new proposal deletes this provision and makes the situation of the consumer worse. With regard to Article 31 - how a prepayment is understood whether it is an ara or a part of a payment, it is somehow newly specified that they are not required to pay the company, then it may happen that all sellers will understand this when it comes to such a method of payment, that it is all an ara and they will avoid paying interest. Article 34 - the right to request payment or repayment of the amount already paid, this is a positive novelty, since so far it has been considered that the consumer exercises his right only if the card has been misused; therefore it is for other forms of payment, not money. With regard to the regulation of contracts concluded outside the premises, the consumer has additional rights. It is also better with regard to comparative advertising when an undertaking carries out illicit advertising. Previously, it was like an option of a court that judged who was guilty and whether it was in place, and now it's like a duty. In short, that's the content. We are a little skeptical about the government's views on the use of language, to the use of word links, where we think that it is too weak to speak Slovenian and exert other influences. In our view, there is no need for arguments and could remain in the dictatorships that have already been established and would not be contrary to European Union regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u166	Thank you. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of consumer protection, because it is definitely that the consumer is always in a subordinate position, and the protection of the consumer is increasingly important because of Slovenia's entry into the European Community, where we will be on a few hundred millionths of a market and with an extremely large offer even more under the influence of various products and will certainly be more important to protect consumers, especially in the part that speaks the Slovenian language, at least that way we understand these things. We firmly believe that the decision on the Committee on the Economy was correct and that it was right to take into account the proposal of the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and that we have changed some things so that they will certainly be significantly more understandable to all Slovenes, not only those who speak English or any other foreign language, because of their understanding of the products or instructions and advertising. We believe that these solutions adopted by the Committee are certainly welcome. I understand the complexity and caution of the government, but I am firmly convinced, and I hope that in our Group of Members, too, that if necessary, we will change things, it is never too late. However, it can happen if we are too broad-minded to allow foreign suppliers or manufacturers of different products to advertise in European languages, languages of the European Community, and thus try to violate the provisions of this law as much as possible; if we allow only legislation to do so, there will certainly be so much more. In short, the amendments and proposals proposed in the bill will be supported and we do not oppose the common law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented to us by mag. Blaze Kavčič, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u168	In the Liberal Democracy Club, we see the reason for this change of law, especially in the circumstances that consumer protection in EU regulation is a very dynamic area. Legislation is constantly changing here, complementing and upgrading. A new directive has been adopted, the content of which is yet to be adopted in the Slovenian legal order. However, according to the European Commission, individual solutions in Slovenian legislation are not entirely appropriate and therefore these derogations need to be corrected. Harmonisation is justified with a view to the effective functioning of the common market and therefore full implementation of the Directives must be ensured. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law, as presented by the Government, do not change the principles and objectives of the law, which were already the basis for the adoption of the law in 1998, but in particular for amendments to the laws on the implementation of the set of EU directives in 2002, but only to complement the existing system of consumer legal protection in order to fully comply with EU law. The proposed amendment brings two basic sets of current legislation, the first set, which mainly covers the mandatory harmonisation of the law in force with EU law, which must be urgently adopted by 1 May 2004. Amendments to the law relating to language requirements in written communications to consumers in the non-harmonised field are therefore proposed. The language requirements relate mainly to product labels, advertising messages to consumers and their non-acceptance could constitute a breach of the Treaty of the European Community. The Committee itself has, of course, presented a desire for adequate protection of the Slovenian language, which the Committee has also listened to, but has determined in the opinion of the LDS Club that certain cleansing is necessary in order to achieve the basic purpose of protecting the Slovenian language - and indirectly citizens and citizens, so that they do not expose these same citizens and citizens to the negative consequences of inadequate legislation or even to try to introduce some form of protection that would actually constitute their true contradiction in real life. However, the second set of regulations in the law relates to the imposition of injury suffered on other matters, with the lower limit on the value of the goods on which the product by mistake causes damage and where the consumer can still impose damage increasing to 100,000 tolls. In the LDS, we believe that the bill has been well prepared. Together with the amendments of LDS Members' Groups, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! When reviewing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the consumer protection law, we in the Slovenian National Party, given that I will not explain everything we have heard and what the law offers, we have adopted the following conclusions and I will also forward our decisions. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, on the basis of a proposal for a law, the consumer is under-protected. Why? The present amendment to the law is, as we know, the result of the harmonisation of national legislation with European Union law, but these are the three shortcomings that we point out. First, language requirements refer to product labels and advertising messages to consumers. On them or on them, the mother's working body has taken a position, as the Slovenian National Party would, of course, represent or propose, but the decision will, of course, depend on us today or together. Above all, we point to two serious shortcomings which are not acceptable and which are also not practice and knowledge in the European Union. In particular, liability for the product in the event of damage to the product shall be set at the lower limit in which the consumer may claim compensation. This is supposed to - I think it was written in Article 3 - from 10,000 to 100,000 tolars. This is certainly unacceptable to colleagues and colleagues, unacceptable, unacceptable to Slovenia at all, but only if you see that Europe does not know such a provision. And next time, the burden of proof of injury: The consumer must prove not only the error of the product and the damage caused, but also the causal link between the error and the damage - but also the proposal of this law. Please, is this in terms of better consumer protection and quality? Yes, of course not! And secondly, I say that Europe is not aware of such a case. Europe doesn't know that! Therefore, we do not speak or say to law-makers that this is in line with the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, we also point out that the Parties, members of the European Union, should, inter alia, ensure effective legal protection for consumers in order to improve quality. But how to ensure the quality or proper protection of consumers, when the basic proposal of the novel did not explicitly specify - once again, I go to the language - of communication in the Slovenian language! I hope that, as they have suggested, I think that the consumer association, and require only communication in the Slovenian language, to do so. Allow me to mention this, because there is also a national consumer protection programme to be mentioned in connection with the proposal for a law that we should have, but we do not have a national programme, but we have a strategy. Of course, that's what the government confirmed. I speak instead of the national programme, it has endorsed a strategy that advocates better protection and quality of work. Well, the abolition of regional consumer associations, the centralisation of consumer protection, the monopolisation of public service, free consumer advice, consumer evaluation as an obstacle to economic development and the award of concessions are certainly not close to protection and quality of work. The national consumer protection programme, or strategy for the period 2005 to 2008, as adopted by the Government, constitutes a grave violation of the principles of European consumer protection and a violation of the entire chapter of the Consumer Protection Act, and is, of course, totally contrary to what it provides and announces the existing proposal for a law on amendments and additions. Speed again, hurry again, duality again, superficiality and impossibility again. In the Slovenian National Party, if the points are mainly compensation of 100,000 tolars and the use of the Slovenian language is accepted, we will support the bill. If not, we will strongly oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. You have two amendments on your bench. The two proposers are LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS. May I have your attention, please? The same applicants have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 2 and Article 5. They're both on the same three sheets of paper. The amended amendment to Article 5 is not yet in place. He's coming to the bench. The same proposers shall amend the amendment to Article 5. However, we can open the debate on the second article and the amendment of those proposals to Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u172	Thank you very much. When I read this explanation, the changes in this article concerning the use of the Slovenian language as adopted by my mother's working body, it is actually very difficult for me to understand why you are proposing this. This is not a requirement of the European Union. I don't know what it is. I would like to hear an explanation from the proponents, these are the LDS House of Members and the United List of DeSUS. You know how many foreigners are used in the Slovenian language, depending on time and use. I remember, piece by piece was a young man, my old father, who was a professor of Slovenian, told me the story of how they were sometimes in Ljubljana after the first world war, when there were very many German words, especially in this circle of Ljubljana, that they said, "From the landes Presidenta Methenn at the trophke klava." All Ljubljanans understood this and there was not a single Slovenian word in this. When I'm thinking today, why are we opening this door now? Just so that we can continue to create some possibility of further use of foreigners in our language, which I do not know who they serve. I don't know who they serve. This is not a request from the European Union, there is no directive here for me to know about. Perhaps the members of these three clubs know more and would like to hear them teach me. Is this really a request from the European Union or is it just, I don't know, some adjustment to what is easy for certain companies today, companies that are doing and preparing ads and it's more interesting maybe. But that is precisely what the greatest challenge is for us not to sink into this sea of diversity in order to persevere in our own. I truly support the amendment adopted by the working body. I don't know why we should change that. I don't know why we should change that. I would like to hear where those professional reasons are that we need to change this today and what this actually accomplishes. What is that higher goal that we will now bow down to, that we will give up something, which I find completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kavčič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u174	I think our purpose was very similar here: to protect the Slovenian language to the greatest extent possible, but of course it does not cut so far that some want, but some reluctantly reach certain unreasonable, perhaps even perverted solutions. Let us say that we would expose Slovenian buyers, product users and traders to the fact that only in Slovenia should we undertake some completely useless operations, such as pasting in cars those signs that, say, if you drove a colleague of Bayuk with an official C5, you could say that it says min - max. And let's say that such a min-max, which in any language in itself doesn't mean a whole word, but it's known and understood throughout the world and it can be understood what that word means in this product. Such matters, of course, should be allowed to continue in the Slovenian space. And that is all that provides for an article as drafted as proposed by the current proposal of the three parliamentary groups. For the first time and clearly, an enterprise with consumers must operate in the Slovenian language, and this is undeniable. However, of course, we also need to resolve the issue of product labelling, before we do communication with consumers, which must also contain the full name of the company and its seat in written messages. When labelling itself, the consumer must provide the consumer with all the necessary information in the Slovenian language regarding the characteristics, sales conditions of use and destination of the product. In addition, it is possible to use generally understood symbols and images in both Slovenia and elsewhere in the world. This compares us with the standard enjoyed by consumers in other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u176	Thank you. Today, the reports of the parliamentary groups mentioned that Article 2 has undergone a significant change from the original proposal to the current amendment. When I talk about the drafting of this article and how the requirements for the Slovenian language are set out in the proposed amendment, I would like first to point out that I do not imagine that it would be an indication that the words of foreign origin, which have adapted to the legality of the Slovenian language, would not be included in our consciousness as part of the Slovenian language, which can be seen in the dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. Therefore, I do not see any effort to change this amendment as a crusade against foreigners. There is something else when we are to do with the words taken at other levels of communication; this is probably not the moment we are discussing. What I will support this amendment for is, in my opinion, the first part of the amendment, which ensures that the business with consumers must operate in the Slovenian language. Not because anyone would think that this concerns the protection of the Slovenian language. In this case, the consumer or user who is a Slovenian mother tongue shall have the right to obtain the necessary information in the Slovenian language. I also think that, as is now the case, there is a fundamental dilemma that has been resolved. In fact, first of all, it was just a speech that the labelling of products should take account of the provision as set out. And you had to be very specific to know what should be counted for product labelling. I agree with Mr Kavčič that it is difficult to expect the product to change the label, for example, to switch on or off. I went to check the machines I have in my household. They all have "he" and "off" marks. So it seems to me to insist here that what is on the product must be absolutely in the Slovenian language. I'm pleased that we have here on the voting device written "against" and "yes". Now it is added that the necessary information regarding the characteristics of the sales conditions, use and destination of the product, this passport of those things which must be in the Slovenian language. I therefore think that this has now been a much clearer definition, because it is possible to read in the explanatory memorandum that words and words, data, pictorial material or symbols relating to the product are particularly considered to be labelling. This is much broader than what we have now reached agreement with Ambassador Kavčič. I think that this matter is now in line with our wishes and there is also no more talk about excluding symbols, which in my opinion must also be and we are exposed to this sign language at every step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u177	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u178	Mrs Potrata, thank you very much, we have written in Slovenian now, but it is important how much we open the door. Right through this law, we are talking about how to open the door, whether these markings will remain Slovenian or there will be others besides these markings, in another language and more. That's what this is about. I think it makes sense to be restrictive here, but it's not possible on the product itself or when it's an integral image to prevent it, you don't want it. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Four more of you signed up for the word. In order for me to introduce you, Mr Battelli, Mr Barovic, Mr Pardon, Mr Kelemina, Mr Barovic, Mr Battelli and Mrs Potrata were the first. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u180	Your Honor! My opinion is that the explanation that some of you gave earlier does not hold the most, or is more, on broken legs. Even now, without us writing anything into our legislation, it seems obvious that some expressions are used, generally known, so you claim, and will also be used further. The only problem is that these expressions will get more and more. As soon as you give yourself an option, you even write down what's already happening or emerging and becoming more and more effective, that's what you're putting into law, and then this thing will just reach an unfathomable dimension. Sometimes when I listen to Mrs. Potrato, it seems to me that when she decides something to defend something, she will defend it at all costs. It is a pity that he is not the President of the State, the Prime Minister and does not occupy all the ministerial cities, because then all of this would be perfectly resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Replica Mrs. Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u182	I don't know what you mean and what you want to tell me now by defending something. That's right. I'll say it again. On the product, even on the mobile phone we have, we've got "yes" and "no." If you think we have to write in the Consumer Protection Act that these generally known words on the product for sale on the Slovenian market must be replaced by "yes" and "no", I hope you will not say that "yes" then of course this is the same thing that we will not really find the same language. What is permitted and should not be permitted by law and what the law will accomplish and what it will not accomplish is up to us and our application. But the fact that the proposed law or that the three member groups have now included in the labelling of products the requirement that information on the characteristics, sales conditions, use and destination of the product in Slovenian should be understood in the first place as a comment by the consumer association. Since the remark then went to a dictatorship which was in law that this must be written in the consumer's understandable language. What is understandable to the consumer is, however, a very stretching and insufficiently defined term. That's why I think it's much better now, and that should be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I'll ask you first. Are we talking about the amendment to Article 2 now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u185	There is still Article 2 and the amendment of the three groups of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u186	I would very much like to, I think, if I have listened correctly, like other colleagues, we are not at times fully gathered, that some of my colleagues - I understand this also by Mr. Kavčič - ask why, if I understand correctly, an amendment to Article 2 on the use of the Slovenian language is needed and used even one term, Citroen 5. Did I hear that right? I'd just like to compare the answer to that. We have a factory in Slovenia, and I will not call it not to be paid now for the EPP that makes French cars in Slovenia, which you buy today with a traveling computer. I think this Slovenian term is appropriate. But this traveling computer as consumer goods directs the roads of a Slovenian buyer in French. That's why it's Slovenian. However, if Slovenian wants to upgrade this traveling computer with Slovenian language, he has to make a special request and pay for it separately. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment, which I absolutely support and I have said as my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, is absolutely for the use of the Slovenian language in all respects.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u188	Thank you very much. At the same time, is there an open debate on Article 5?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u189	Mr Battelli, 2nd Article Just about the second, this moment, then we go to Article 5. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u190	I'll be there later when we get to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u191	Thank you very much. May I close the debate on Article 2? [[Yeah.]] I'm inviting someone else in the lobby. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the three coalition groups. Explanation. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Mr Partljič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u192	If it's anything dramatic, because I picked it up because the lady didn't see me before. Perhaps there is also a reason for us not to listen, because I think that some have been responsible to Mrs Potret, that we are actually taking the same stand for the same thing. It seems to me that this thing is perfectly reasonable to say that it is not puritan to the Slovenian language. And if we do not write this requirement, then we will continue to receive this information about the operation of mixers or anything in a Slovak or in a Slovenian language where you really have a headache. And it seems to me that this is the least we can do to demand that the instructions be as appropriate as they are in Slovenian. And I don't see marketing being blocked here, nor do I see any overstatement for Slovenian language, which I think is a minimum. That's why, of course, I'll back things up. But I stopped by from solidarity with Majda and others who report it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Dr. Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment for the next reason. I'm no linguist, but I've lived in the world for a long time to know how to do it. Two phrases are not explained enough. Individual words or short words in a foreign language [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u195	Mr Bernik, we are now voting on the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u196	Ah, excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u197	This will also be the debate, Dr Bernik, on the next article. Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 46 Members and Members voted against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. You have now amended the amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 5. I am therefore opening the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. My word to Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. What has been adopted, by my vote against it, and as far as Article 2 is concerned, of course, it is logical because it is some guidance that prevents abuses or allows the identification of something to characterise a product and so on. This is perfectly logical and understandable. I think it's less understandable, generally speaking, this restriction on advertising. Because advertising is, as I would say, an entrepreneurial activity that is totally pointless to limit. If I pull the story to the end, an agency can advertise in a completely fictional language that does not exist, just to attract attention, or do something else -- write words in a particular language, for example, in another letter and so on. For this reason, I do not understand this amendment to Article 5. And second of all, I'm interested, and I'm asking for an explanation if it's possible to get it. So advertising messages are one of the foundations of media functioning. We have here two national communities that have the media in their own language. And that is probably not how I would say to endanger and restrict it with such a provision. I'm talking about advertising. Advertising is not what protects consumers. In fact, the purpose is to bring it around in some way. But that's not what the ingredients of one product are, advertising is advertising. I don't think it makes sense. However, I would like to ask for that explanation of what happens then by advertising in the media of the national communities, which are self-financed by these ads, which are in the languages of the national community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, I understood earlier. Would you like to discuss it now? Here you go. Then Barovich, the Kremjar. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I was wrong before, but now I'm going to, I hope it's over. Two phrases are not explained. It bothers me very much how it is written: "The most beautiful words in a foreign language, which are due to the usual use of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] may be used if they constitute an integral part of the integral image." [[...]] What's that? As we know, the advertising industry is extremely good, and they have the imagination that if we used it for any more useful things, science or art would be at a higher level than it is, and that's how they're going to make an entire picnic. And now think about it. Once this is applied, who will then go to fight against the manufacturer of such a product or such an object. I think it is impossible to prevent this when it is once outside and if it is necessary to prevent it, the government will not do so, because it does not take special care of these things today, but the consumer or any civil society will have to start justice, which is an impossible and desperate matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I would only ask you first why or why an amendment should not have been adopted, which I think was tabled by the representatives of the consumer union, which was very simple. Article 5 would read: "Advertising messages must be in the Slovenian language." Individual words or short words in a foreign language that are understandable due to the usual use. What's that? If it's Always, I understand it's Alwayss. But it's just a product name. And the words to it are, I don't know, "I'm using Always." or, "I feel good with Always." I can't find a word link that could give me the notion of the usual use of comprehensible to most consumers. Because consumers, respected colleagues and colleagues, are people who are 80 years old and children who are 4 and 5 years old. But if you think here the use of arga or jargon or taken words, of course this is completely different. However, since we are drafting a complementary proposal for a law on consumer protection amendments and additions, I assess, the president and colleagues and colleagues in order to be the best solution for Article 5 to read: "Advertising messages must be in the Slovenian language." And the matter is completely and completely clear. Of course, I don't want to, but now I see Mrs Marika raising her hand, but I don't want to affect areas where minorities live. It is perfectly logical, however, that there is an official language after the constitution in the area where indigenous minorities live, and I don't know, Hungarian and Italian. That makes sense. We do not make Slovenian spelling here, but we use it for a new law on consumer protection. Perhaps this proposal, which had already been given, would have been taken into account later if it were too controversial to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u203	Thank you very much. You've had a lot of talk. Let me tell you the order: Mr Kremjar, Marsich, Bayuk, Sok, Possonec. To the word of Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We all have the same concern, not all of us, but those who have dealt with something more with this thing and also on the committee have tried and amended the first proposal. The only concern is that in our advertising space on radio, television, newspapers, jumbo posters, I don't know what, they don't come through in foreign languages. This is not because we would not like foreign languages, but because it is urgent, it is a very important area for young people, because of everything else that needs to be in their own language. As with the amendment to Article 2, however, we must be so understanding as to say that we will not prevent something. For example, if there is a basic point in television communication, it is said to buy this and that, however designed in Slovenian language, it must be, not in foreign language. But if it is in the background, for example, because this is a matter that is used around the world, the Beatles, who sing in English, if they wrote to me as I suggested on the committee that it is only and exclusively in the Slovenian language of the dot, it would mean that those Beatles in the background should not be, but that they should sing some other Beatles in the Slovenian language. Or, I don't know if the shirt he sells is written by Help, so that it should then be translated to Help, but the shirt they sell around the world with this I just want to say that it is in this amendment that the basic message should be in the Slovenian language and there is no way that it would be any different. [[...]] This amendment should not be followed by a foreign word or a foreign word in the basic message. In the entire image of the product or the company being advertised, this is global anyway, and we cannot demand that only for our market will it completely change the whole image of this. This is the basic thought of this amendment. I think that's right. Of course, the problem that Battelli has pointed out is the problem that needs to be solved somehow, because it is radio and television in Hungarian and radio and television in Italian, and newspapers that broadcast in our Slovenian space. And these are the Slovenian radio stations that broadcast in these languages. For them, according to my judgment, it is not the Slovenian language, but in that case it is the Hungarian language or the Italian language. It's bilingual, it must have fallen out in writing somewhere. We should actually fix this. Otherwise, the basic thought of this amendment is to protect, especially in the advertising space, the Slovenian language and to allow things to be normal. If that were not the case, this would mean that we would quickly start turning ads on the radio and television and the newspaper in French or only in English. Of course, that's not the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marshich to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u206	Dear Vice President! Since Leo Kremjar has taken almost all of my words and thoughts, I fully agree with what he has said. I think it is necessary to find a solution, especially in this part, which relates to the use of the national language in the media using this language. I think he said it all and wouldn't say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Bajuk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. I forgive myself because part of my comments before were actually directed at this article. But since our sessions are going so fast, it's already closed, and it's closed, and you can't talk anymore, but maybe I talked too fast. I had a comment about that, too, and I think that these things could be solved. In particular, it is a standard, a criterion that the National Assembly takes over. I know we're dealing with a reality that changes every day. Surely the phrase that I learned from my old father, who was understandable to most Ljubljanans at the time, in the age of 20, would be completely incomprehensible today to the great majority of Ljubljanans, "from the landes of the president of methen at the Tephe klava. Not everyone would understand that. Maybe some already, some words all of them. Why? Because then Austria was the end of World War I, German was spoken, especially in urban works, and it was understandable, as you, the older generation, understood when you heard the words in Croatian, because you always heard it, but I did not "grow up" here, and I do not understand. It's just like that. When we write and I would also like to ask, because we have certain specialists of Slavism and Slovenian among us, what is the concept of "ordinary use, understandable to most consumers and an integral part of the whole image." What's that? Is it not also a concept that changes and that is difficult to adopt in a single marriage? I'd rather see someone break the criterion by using the words that are used every day than by us changing the criterion. That's the difference. And this principle, which was adopted in the home labour body, "advertising messages must be in the Slovenian language", pika. And it's enough for me. It's enough and definitely enough for me. Because all of this when you add the comma here and you go in. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] individual words or shorter words Who decides what is shorter, and what is a longer word relationship? [[...]] And how many people are there to understand? I'd like to tell you one very personal story. When I was a child growing up in West Argentina, we could also hear a radio from Chile. And for the same thing that we were digging both on the one side and the other side of the border, it was called Orange Crush, which is what they called it in Chile, and we heard it on the radio. In Argentina, however, it was demanded that it be "Naranha Cruz". And they all drank the same thing. But on the one hand, they demanded something about advertising, and on the other hand they didn't. And they used a lot more foreigners, much more than they did in Argentina. Now I'm asking you what we can do with this. Who's it really for? What is the goal? I think we prefer to set one goal, even if it is not fully attainable, in Slovenian language, so that a criterion can also be established, let the standard begin to assert that the Slovenian language will not sink into this sea of diversity, as I have previously used this word link. I see no argument that we would not require this advertising in the Slovenian language. Because we use a lot of strangers anyway, and these foreigners are changing. If you are looking at a dictionary of Slovenian from 40 years ago and today, you have words that have not been spoken before. Today I use - well, I don't use, but a lot of people use "this and this thing will result in this and that". This generation of my parents didn't use it, it didn't "result" anything. Now it can "result" and it's in spelling and it's an accepted thing. Who's taking it? Yes, certainly not the National Assembly, but for this we have experts who decide once and for all, let it be Slovenian, and suddenly a foreigner becomes part of our recognised Slovenian language. I think it's pointless to write such a thing into the law, because we mainly refer to a matter that changes and changes every day. And if they change every day, I think it is right to set the criterion, to change in the direction of greater respect for the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u209	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I think that nothing much needs to be added to what Dr. Bajuk has just said, that he has actually defined widely and pointed to the problem that we will cause if we accept this amendment in the form that it is written. I would like to remind you of one report that was written in Brussels and in that report we have been warned that Slovenians are too weak to protect their Slovenian language. They found that out there and I don't know why we wouldn't be aware of it here at home and why we would accept such amendments. It is quite enough to lay down that advertising messages must be in Slovenian language, pika. The other thing that Mr Kremjar said was that it was coming, of course, those belts would appear in the process. However, if we legalize this in a way that says that individual words can be used or shorter words can be used, then, of course, we have opened the door wide so that we can have advertising only in this way. I think today is an opportunity for us to be aware of this and not accept this amendment in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u211	Thank you very much. At 4:00 p.m., I'm sorry, it's 6:00 p.m., and it's a 15-minute break. I'm taking a vacation. We'll continue at 6:15. Five more have been reported for discussion. We'll be back in 15 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u212	Dear Members, I ask you to come to the hall. There are quite a few of you who have been reported for debate. We are discussing Article 5 and the amendment of the three groups of Members to this Article. In the following order you have been reported to the debate Mrs Pozsonec, Partljič, Marcič, Kavčič, Battelli. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I support this article, but there is something missing in this article about the use of this advertising in bilingual language as well. Just remember that when you want to tell voters that you're the best at this and that, then you know that you say it in the language of nationality. I'm sure it wasn't intentional, but by chance, I hope that with the harmonisation amendments or I'm also predicting an amendment to this article, then it can be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u214	Here you go, Mr. Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u215	As a member of the Nationality Commission, I would actually be interested in what you just said, but I didn't hear it very well. But if I understand correctly, I don't think there's anything too late for that to come on the agenda, and we're talking about advertising in particular. I didn't mean to talk about it. On the one hand, let me say that I am pleased with this concern for the Slovenian language, which I see left and right, without the irony of anything. We have prepared a proposal for a law on the Slovenian language as an official, national official language. I hope that you will also voluntarily stand in the positions that actually stem from this. I don't really know who he is, I think the Economic Committee has made these formulations. When you asked, Mr Bajuk, what does this mean, except for individual words or shorter words, I have to say that I, too, do not know if I am right to say this, say, when we once had 'impossible', and then one black man, one Japanese, said it, remember, no. But in some special way, either the wrong way or one of their sayings was said by all 'impossible'. But here I imagine, I've said before, probably "drink the working three hearts", "drink the nature," and then now one Eskimo in Eskimo says that an Indian in Indian says, "I think it's sort of in here, which is clear that in some way it's allowed even in some way because it's about creation and the copyright thing." [[...]] But I would almost agree with the so-called so-called so-called ‘advertisers’ themselves: advertising messages must be in the Slovenian language and point, as has already been said. Because all that I'm talking about right now would not really mean the negative of the Slovenian language. I don't think that would have prevented any other use. It's true, I don't walk around the world as much as some people do, but let's say in France you won't find ads in English or anything else. They are very strict in their French language and are therefore known and exceptional in the EU. And for us who have such a small language, it wouldn't hurt if maybe a little bit more, I don't call it puritan, but we're a little more committed to it. I don't think anything would have been broken if it had remained in this one formulation. But the rest I imagine is that if the first sentence is written as it is, although the second is a little bit unreasonable and it could also spread and then we could discuss whether these two, three words are commonly known or not. However, it seems to me that this first sentence in some way requires that it is in Slovenian and the rest might be some kind of play that would only confirm and affirm the Slovenian language. However, if those who have drafted the amendments agreed to remain only in this brief formulation, it would also seem appropriate to me. I'm kind of glad about this obsession, because I can't write in any other language than that. Indeed, when there is no border in Europe, when we "slap" here and there, there will be only language boundaries. And if we don't worry, no one will even know that he's driving through a new country. I don't think he's destined for the first part of the amendment to be important enough. But maybe I would have been enough. And I, if there's a deal like this, I won't object.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u216	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u217	Everyone is right in their own way, but I think that, as the amendment is set, it makes possible, Mr Bayuk, that you have given one example, of course, which is worth considering. I am watching, say, quite German television, Italian television, and they have exactly the same arrangements as it is written in here with the amendment. Both the cases I gave, Italian and German television, have all been translated. And I think that's bad, because they just don't hear foreign languages, they don't know them, and so on. In advertising, however, it is permitted to say that a word relationship, which, as it says here, is an integral part of the integral image of an article, is allowed to appear in a foreign language. You gave the case, I'll give one, Nike, "just do it." This also occurs in Chinese as well as in Italian. They don't translate it because it's part of an integral image. If we don't allow it, we're going to have to translate it, which means we're going to say, "Come on," but I'm not going to say, it's going to spoil some integral image that the manufacturer himself probably wanted in this international global world that we live in, to give to the widest audience. And I agree with that one, of course. But I don't want that to happen at all, because then we would have ads in a foreign language, possibly very badly subtitled or something like that. But I think that's the worst option we can choose. I support this amendment. However, I appeal, of course, to those who can also prepare appropriate arrangements for those who can only advertise in the media in the language of nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kavčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u219	Thank you. First of all, this issue, which has been raised subsequently, is the issue of communications from members of minorities. I think it is quite understandable that communication with members of minorities must be, in their language, in the language of national minorities. I think this standard has been reached and understood in our country. And if, say, a radio station or a television station all day long the entire program takes place, say, in Hungarian, it is normal for these messages to be in Hungarian as well. It is now only a matter of putting this solution into place, either in a specific law or in transitional provisions or as we have found in the meantime, that it is also possible to resolve this issue by supplementing the amendment. But as colleague Pozsonchev has found, this question has never really been meant in the sense that it would now try to bring into our legislation any restriction of communication with national minorities. But this is a matter that needs to be handled more precisely and more precisely. Now to this very thing - because this is already a very communicative issue, actually, but still. Such a diction of the article, which is now proposed by the last form of this amendment, is essentially to enable, for the first time, the protection of the Slovenian language, and secondly not to limit the creativity of media messages to any of Prokrus' beds. For example, if we take a concrete case, in the past, there has been a familiar advertisement for Savi's winter tyre. The main message was in the Slovenian language, but that image, which was visually similar, was made at a completely different level. It was made at a level where some Eskimo communicates with some signs of Russian submariners, and then even a visual image with some stars, calls, heads and so on was shown, in fact, a very creatively articulated message, where it would be a great shame that such messages would be excluded from the possible instrument of communication with consumers by some reckless law in our advertising area. That is why I believe that it is worth supporting this amendment, with a supplement that will resolve even more clearly the issue of national minorities. However, substantively, it seems to me that it protects Slovenian language as well as allows for the already developed creativity of Slovenian messages.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u220	Thank you very much. There's something else that's come to you. In order, Mr. Battelli, Diaci, Kebrich. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Look, here's today's copy of the Naval Diary. Here's the whole advertising site where it says, "Vehicle of benefits: 25 items for only 20 euros. Chicken 1.69, German potato 0.95..." and so on. And I have here a copy of our newspaper, where there are only two faces where no one advertises. Then there's an ad by the tourism agency "Giro di Talia", which will come. But it's an ad, it's a paid ad. And then, let's say, here's the Istrian Credit Bank, because there's no other name, that's what it's called. I'm simplifying, it's for the rest of us, they have some benefits and they advertise themselves with these benefits. This is what I think is right to protect the Slovenian language. [[...]] This isn't a story that's not problematic. But it has to be made possible, it has to be written in such a way that we can make such situations possible, and that is what this is about. There'll be no misunderstanding. But I am still convinced that advertising is completely free of gainful activity. And it's going free. If I want to sell one car in Slovenia, I will probably advertise in Slovenian, or I will have bigger problems selling this car. But well, I don't think this story is going to go through the filter of Europe as far as advertising is concerned. With regard to Article 2, it was necessary to write that if we really wanted to respect the stories that for certain products such as medicines, for example, there should be bilingual or trilingual, the Slovenian language, the Hungarian language, the Italian language. If someone makes a mistake at a dose or whatever, it can be fatal. At least for certain products. But we have heard that there is no need to be saved in other laws. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I've been long.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Diacia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. I took the floor because I was encouraged by my colleagues, Mr Partljič and Mr Marsich, who were right in their own way. In principle, I support the dictatorship, which is now in Article 5, without the continuation of this amendment, but it would also be necessary, or acceptable, for me to accept this amendment, in the following words, 'the whole image' will be well defined. For the case cited by Mr Marshič concerning Nike, in particular, is actually throughout the world just up to it. But if you remember the commercial that used to be for Clia, "Clio has everything that's big," that was everywhere in different languages. And if this could be well defined, I think this diction could stay in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. It's not that simple at all. Why not? We get German and French, Italian advertising, English if we say advertising is advertising in Slovenia. Foreigners will advertise when we are in the European Union, in our own languages. How do we stop them and we demand it in Slovenian? It doesn't work together. We have to look at this article a little tolerantly. If there is a message in a foreign language, of course, that advertisement will probably be in a foreign language first, but if they want to sell something to us those who deal with advertising and such things, and if I aim at a Slovenian consumer, I will give it to him in Slovenian. If a newspaper is published in Italian or Hungarian, it is perfectly logical that most advertisements will be for those who speak Hungarian. That's what they say about the minority and those people who know Hungarian. And we need to relax this, we need to take this into account, and we cannot strictly demand that advertising should only be in Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I just want to react to this part. Slovenia's entry into the European Union is not linked to the impossibility of using Slovenian language in advertising messages. It is also about the official language of Slovenia in Slovenia after the entry of Slovenia into the European Union. However, that advertising is partly related to private interest is true, but some things we do not accept that sometimes the interest of capital in a small market can be enough to seek linguistic adjustment. When I'm on my home computer, I have a program of windows in Slovenian when I'm on the computer in the National Assembly, but I have English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I think we can close the debate on the amendment. Yes, you can. Vote explanation, Mr Partljič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u229	I didn't know we were already voting. Since it is precisely the Slovenian language, I would point out that it is in this last formulation, but now there is no time to argue that this is not a primary teaching comment, but an essential comment. There's a missing "heavily" behind one item. The comma isn't just a pizzazzler of teachers, but it means that here is the end of one thought and it begins another thought. And whoever writes without the commas doesn't understand the meaning. That's what I'm saying. And here's the "consumer" comma missing, and I appeal for us to sign it up, and we're voting for the amendment first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u230	Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u231	The branch was included in the version that my colleague and I reviewed, but now it's not. However, I would like to take the floor to draw attention to another editorial matter that will be necessary when the law has its final image. It is a word order in the amendment that has been adopted, and it would be a good word order to correct, but this is an editorial correction that will be corrected when lecturing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We are voting on the amendment on the amended amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 5. [[The device's not working.]] I know it's not working. We'll have to wait for the technical services to look at the device. Procedural proposal, Mr Partljič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u233	I remember that in 1990, when the first multilateral assembly was held, there were 240 of us and we voted all with our hands and counted the girls. So 240 votes had to be counted. I don't think it's impossible for us to count this bill and this amendment by raising our hands. After all, there's one third of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u234	Thank you very much. So let's go the old way, the rules of procedure allow it. We should really wait 30 minutes for the voting device to be repaired because something's wrong. I ask for so much patience that they will, of course, be able to count. I ask, who is in favour of the amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 5? 37 for. Who's against it? Ten against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Of course, the assembly is concluded. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that two amendments were adopted at second reading, namely Articles 2 and 5. I ask, would qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to the third reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Tone Anderlič, Head of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, announced that the Group of Members would table an amendment during the third reading, so I am also interrupting the New Slovenia Group at this stage. Thank you very much. So when the amendments are ready, we will continue to deal with this law in the third reading. We are moving on to the end of the 33rd item of the agenda - the mandate-election issue, namely, the consideration of the proposal for a decree on internal organisation, jobs and titles in the services of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a mandate-holder commission for consideration by the assembly. I invite the President of the Commission, Mr Jožef Školč, to explain the proposal further. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u237	Thank you very much. This decree must be adopted so that our services can be organised in a legal manner. He's been in sync for a very long time. The comments on the various calls for the draft decision were not until the practically final moment of the adoption of the decision. At that time, a proposal was made to organise a department for international activities, which would be linked, not like everyone else, to the section for the preparation and implementation of meetings, but directly to the Secretary-General. This would mean, after the Committee's debate, a particular situation in this National Assembly. Now we also have an amendment that corrects the minority where it tries to reintroduce itself in addition to the sector for the implementation of the activities of the National Assembly, in which is the Section for the Preparation and Implementation of Meetings and Working Bodies, including the Department for International Activity, Protocol and Translation. This amendment brings this second section into some independent sector - I ask you to be careful and considerate in these matters - and does not introduce into the sector other activities of the National Assembly other now known sections of the National Assembly, which also carry out certain activities that are not directly related to the preparation of the decision-making for the meetings. This is a petition service and a service related to a mandate-holder commission. In fact, this proposal is also inconsistent when it builds on a particular other activity that is not related to the event in this Chamber. In fact, this would mean that this department would have 17 people, it would mean 3 heads of departments and another sector leader, which is probably one of the motives for this reorganisation. While this sector, the rest of the sector, would be the real department for the preparation and implementation of meetings, it would be 74 people and one leader. There's also some kind of imbalance here. However, this is worth it, I will say, careful discussions, but it is not a solution that would be consistent with the visions of all these situations that are in the national assembly. Otherwise, for those of you who have not dealt specifically with this act, there is news that this is divided into 5 sectors that the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General of the two deputies who run these 5 sectors, and with this, I will say, let the more transparent pyramid of responsibility draw up and, of course, establish. In addition, the Secretary-General is also bound by the public relations service and the legal and regulatory service. I therefore recommend this decree to be adopted. I recommend, of course, that we follow what will happen to this and that any adjustments be made when it is shown whether this really causes any particular problems or not. It certainly makes more sense for me to think about getting married than expanding sectors. And I speak in person from this point of view, I do not think that this amendment would contribute to this objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u239	I'll be right out of this place 'cause I won't be long. It is true, of course, that a decision on internal organisation is once formed to be organised on the basis of experience and so on by experts who are familiar with organisational sciences. In particular, allow me to express the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Of course, according to our logic, Article 11 is questionable. It is true that the quantitative functioning of the data, I am talking about quantity, in groups of Members with a large number of Members, requires more, probably already, workers or co-workers. On the other hand, you need to understand that for small parliamentary groups such as the Youth Party, or DeSUS, or the Slovenian National Party, the difficulty of covering more content is greater. And that the burden of professional co-workers, which would belong to us under article 11, - if I understand correctly, two - is greater, because they cover 16 working bodies; that means that each must normally control eight and cover all the content, so that there is some contradiction between quantity and content. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it would be good to consider Article 11 and also Article 12. And if not - I know - I can hear the arguments if not, colleagues and colleagues, so that at least the basis for the Group of Members will increase. I know that Article 12 sets us up and allows us a lot more, but if we just take the contents of the 11th, once again, it is a contradiction between the quantity and the content and the weight of the work. I am sure that the professionals in the small parliamentary group will be more burdened than the ones in the larger group, especially after content, and yet all the other parameters for all will be the same. So, in mind, colleagues and colleagues, it is not the Slovenian national party's intention to take something away from someone. It is a matter of wishing that this article also takes into account the content component and could raise the basic level. I hope you understand me, colleagues, and I ask that, of course, any more words can be said if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u240	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Skull, would you like a word? Mr. Sok, if you'll excuse me, please. I am going in the order of the Members and Members who have been notified, but I have misunderstood that you do not want a word. Here you go, Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u241	Well, I would like to say one more thing in relation to this tabled amendment, which is actually the only thing worth discussing and, in my opinion, also the necessary rejection, because it is not truly premeditated to the end. See, the exclusion of this section for international activity, protocol and translation, as we have compromised at the meeting of the Commission on Elections, into a sector divided into three sections, would be followed by someone, despite all the unreasonable division of these people from what the Foreign Policy Committee and other committees dealing with foreign policy must do. It does not consider that this committee merely sets out the policy of this international activity and also all foreign policy activity. It is said that, for this reason, there is more than a need for these people to be in the same sector as the meeting preparation sector and this department. I'm talking about it for some schematic reasons. In such a way that all these permanent delegations of the National Assembly, which could be read a great deal, must be fully aware of what is happening in these committees and cannot be treated in the same way as some other sections, such as research activities and I do not know what. That's how I see the meaning of the connection between these people. However, it is probably true that with any reallocations or with a happier steering hand - in these, and in the work bodies and services - it is necessary to ensure that there are no problems that we are talking about, but here I think it is rather structural for other types of problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u242	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to draw attention to a fact that, of course, we have opened up a long way back. I would like to say that somehow the New Slovenia Group of Members has actually been demolished in the distribution of jobs of the working bodies of the National Assembly and the Vice-Presidential functions compared to other parliamentary groups. It is, of course, on the President of the Elections and Appointments Commission, who has never actually wanted to carry out these matters within the limits of the number of Members. I must draw attention to the fact that the New Slovenia Group of Members, of all the working bodies, the huge bodies which this National Assembly has, have been the management of these commissions and nothing else; one is by function, by procedure. This is for financial supervision, then the European Commission and the petition commission. If you go to look at other places that you have distributed according to this organizational scheme in the National Assembly, you will get an image slightly different, but this is a way of accounting or looking at certain parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u244	Mr. Sok! I really would not like to be rude, but really this decision on the organisation of the services of the National Assembly has nothing to do with what you are discussing. Please don't. It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u245	That's what you think. And I'll tell you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u246	These are the decisions on the establishment of working bodies and compositions. And even though you will now be discussing this for an hour, you will not affect the better or worse side of the decision that we are now taking. But I'm obliged to warn you that you're not in line. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u247	perform functions in two working bodies, etc., [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u248	Please, Mr. Sok, if you read the decree that we are considering today. This decision does not deal with the matter you are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u249	No, no, I understand that this decree does not deal with matter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u250	Then I ask you to return to this decree because you owe it to me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u251	I don't want to argue with you, I obviously stepped on you, as that Slovenian proverb says when you step on your tail, it's all wet. That's a fact I said. As for Article 11 of this Decision, I fully agree with my colleague Barovic. I wonder where you came from, too, that in a group of more than 8 Members of Parliament, every 6 Members have another professional associate. So if there is a smaller group of Members, it is in fact necessary to do the same work as a large group of Members. And I don't know, actually I'd like to hear the argument why you wrote "more than 8" you could write "8 and more." But this comes from the fact that, I don't know, looking at the New Slovenia Group from this level is such that it also needs to be cut down on this level for something. And I can use the same argument as my colleague Barovic used earlier. So, these are things that most of them in this National Assembly are law-abiding and that will be like the rest of them, but of course no one can predict what the situation will be after the elections. If we have survived in this form of organization for three and a half years, then believe that we will endure this situation for another six months before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! Today is April 22nd, Earth Day, Earth International Day. Our colleagues in the state world even had a point about this, and no one in the national council remembered it. But I decided yesterday that I would come to this point of the agenda for one very reason: to draw attention to some unsustainable behavior that has been bothering me for quite some time. That's what this is all about. Look, we got a document yesterday, we already accepted it, and I'm not even gonna mention what document it was. It has 105 pages and looks like this - on each side is 30 words and so on. And we got this peacefully multiplied. I'm sure there's no hero here to read it, let alone read it. But it means so much and so much paper, it means so much and so much energy thrown away [[background advertising]] , so many trees and so many trees - it's true, mate. And I think it would be right to make at least that much change; look, half the paper would be only if we were to print on both sides. Maybe someone will say, so what this guy here is saying, it really sucks, we're wasting time, and so on. I wouldn't even hope to take your precious time if you didn't spend so many hours and so many hours throwing away for the debates that were heard five times, ten times, a hundred times and so on. Therefore, really, when we talk about the decision on internal organisation, I think it is wise that I should also draw attention to such an organisation. Today, I am once again sentenced to a dinner called a sandwich. This also falls within the internal organisation of this Parliament. But I'm afraid this decree doesn't solve it. I'm not talking about the content of the decree. I didn't even run much. But I would point out that this decision on organisation, on internal organisation, should in particular ensure normal working conditions in this Parliament. Normal working conditions - we probably all know what we mean by that. And I really urge, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we also prepare this decree in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Majdo Zupan, may I have a word with you? Mrs. Zupan, would you like a word? No, no, no. I invite Mr. Jakic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The decision on internal organisation, on jobs, titles in the services of the National Assembly should be adopted. For a simple reason, because we all note certain shortcomings in the organisation as it is now. And here I must say that I fully agree with Richard Beuerman at this point, when he points out the details that have not been introduced in this decree, but it would be necessary to pay attention to them at work. I will say, of course, not from the meetings, even in some way to Mr Sok, that if I read Article 11 and Article 12 - expert and administrative assistance to the parliamentary groups - I would also find that the motion for a decision has also taken into account the comment that, if you remember, Dr Baiuk and I have been defending at the beginning of the mandate. In order to ensure that additional professional assistance is also provided for each Member. Article 11 states as follows: for each Member, the appropriations for additional professional assistance shall belong to the sending group in the monthly amount of the Under-Secretary's salary. I hope that one day we will actually come to this, the full realization of this Article 11 or 12. But, of course, I wanted to talk about the amendment tabled on my part. Let me begin by saying that this amendment has been tabled in good faith that this amendment is similar - at least I imagined it this decree, to work ahead and not to be imposed on the actual situation in this National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And if you look ahead and think a little bit in the direction of what this National Assembly is going to do after May 1st, and after being accepted into NATO, you will find out from a simple calculation that one of the departments in this house needs to be strengthened. And, of course, this is the sector in which the Department of International Relations, the Protocol and Translation Department, I think - of course, according to the proposal, is intended to be a sector for the implementation of the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's all I wanted to say. In fact, I have followed, to be perfectly honest, the magnetogram of the discussion led by the chairman of the foreign and political committee, our Parliament, colleague Kacin and colleague Tone Anderlič, the leader of our parliamentary group. Of course, their intention or modeling was different, but they both pointed out that the Department for International Relations would need to be expanded and strengthened, of course, by accompanying activities. So, look, the Translation Department - indeed, Josef Školč will say, the Translation Department cannot be a department, because it is a translator in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But I guarantee you that with the materials that will go to the National Assembly by the European Parliament at the so-called "Grand Committee" and, of course, also to the committees of this National Assembly, the translation service will have to be strengthened and expanded. Similarly from tomorrow on, we have already received many visits from senior officials and working bodies. In the future, I expect that these visits will be much more and therefore I thought that the Protocol Department should be strengthened and, of course, in this context, the Department of International Relations. Once again, the amendment's proposal was well-intentioned, of course I 'expected' with colleagues and colleagues whether it would "go through". There is no great hope for victory even because I may have referred to it as "the sector for other activities of the National Assembly", it could be referred to as "the sector for international relations", within which the Protocol Department and the Translation Section should be. But once again: he was well-meaning and looking to the future, not looking at the actual state that he is now. In reality, I fully agree with Mr Školč that the department is too small and it is difficult to name the sector. But, you will see, in the next term, we will meet in this national assembly that it will be necessary to strengthen the national assembly and the work of the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc. You don't want to. Mr. Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm going to try to speak a little quieter because I don't see any need to sharpen and dramatize, and I don't see the secretary-general, I don't know if he's getting skinny or not getting skinny. When we did this at the MVK, the debate on this was deep enough that we could sort of reconcile and agree on what made us sad. Although it has been a long time and it has been arduous, there has been some compromise that allows us to have those who have the most in common: international activity, protocol and translation - as far as it will be. The fact is that Slovenian is an official language and that, therefore, the European Parliament and the Council must also send us documents in their mother tongue and therefore this national assembly has the right to reply in its mother tongue. It is true, however, that we will need more translators, especially because of the large number of visitors, we will need more room in the National Assembly, another room should have a translation booth, so that we can work normally and that all working bodies will not be drooling in a large lounge when it comes to contacts with visitors from abroad. But this does not concern this decree, it concerns the ambition of this national assembly, when it comes to a budget that must be chosen and legitimately desired, that this building in which we live should be ours and only ours. The State Council could - and we could help it - find better working conditions and places nearby, we need additional space not only for the National Assembly, but for new experts and individual working bodies. I do not want to be offensive, but we are one of the few parliaments where the working bodies of Parliament have no permanent space. Everywhere there is a special space dedicated to work, there is a secretariat, there is a walk, there are all the materials and whenever you can occupy more working bodies at the same time and there is no need to rub each other in front of each other. Nor is it a matter of this decree, but it is a matter of self-respect. It seems important to me in this decision to find that until the national assembly, every individual Member and leadership of the national assembly feel self-respect and importance for our work, there will be not enough determination to make changes to our cause. And when we have working conditions, we can work harder and work easier. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to consider the steps taken by the Secretary-General in the current staff and by the College of the National Assembly after the adoption of the decision, in order to prepare the budget for the future for the future, in order to avoid this. I am personally satisfied with what we have achieved so far. The framework is sufficient, but wisdom, determination, determination and determination are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marshich to the floor. [[You don't want to.]] Mr. Anderlich? [[No, no, ……]] I can therefore conclude the general debate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You weren't reported, Mr. Kelemina. No! No! We're moving on. What did you want, Mr. Sok? [[...]] Just let me tell you, it's gonna be nice. I'm not letting anyone go. We are moving on to a second reading of the motion for a decree. I am giving Article 4 and the amendment of Mr Roman Jakič to this article for consideration. My word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u259	Thank you very much. This is what I wanted to inform you, Madam President, that we have also tabled an amendment in the New Slovenia Group, to Article 11, and that you will get it on the table at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u260	Thank you very much. By the beginning of the examination of the bill you had tabled before the beginning of the consideration of the bill. Let me check it out, though. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u261	President, there will be no misunderstanding. I had previously forgotten in my explanation that I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 4 on the basis of discussions that were informal and formal. Of course, I insist on the argument that I have had, as far as action is concerned in the future of this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u262	Thank you very much. So if the amendment of the New Slovenia Group has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until now - then there are no amendments and we will move on to a full vote on the decree. [[...]] However, if the amendment of the New Slovenia Group was tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will discuss Article 11 and the amendment, as you announced after the discussion. So I'm asking for a few more minutes of attention to see what was going on. [[...]] [[Data check.]] [[...]] Thank you very much. I have been informed from the Service of the National Assembly that the amendment has not been properly tabled and has also been tabled too late. Thus, there are no amendments to the motion for a decree, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on internal organisation, jobs and titles in the services of the National Assembly. Then, according to Mr. Partlich, we will take a manual route. Thank you very much. First damage says we've got enough quorum. I ask, who is behind the decision on job organisation and so on? [[50 MPs.]] Is anyone against it? [[Eight Members.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the 26th paragraph of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the building law. In the second reading, we have adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 31. Qualified applicants wanted a break and now we have the proposed amendments: the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS have tabled amendments to Articles 1 and 31. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group shall then also go to the 31st Article and to the same Article also the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. So, we're starting third treatment and treatment in a row. First of all, I am opening the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the three parliamentary coalition assemblies to this Article. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 of the three coalition groups. Excuse me. I'm asking, now I'm really asking for your attention again and for a while. There are 57 Members and Members of Parliament in the Chamber. [[The ad from the bench.]] We're in the decision-making phase, sir. No, it's okay. Your hands are fine. No, I think it'll be harder because you'll be covering your bodies. There's 57 of us. I ask, who is in favour of the amendment to Article 1, who is in favour? 35 for, against 10. [[The vote was 35.]] Who's against it? [[Against 10.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. I open No, it's not true, Mr. Kelemina, because you see, in the German Parliament, they just throw their eye out and say "majority for", "minor for", so please don't accidentally. [[...]] You can see how much "for" and how many "against" there are. Moving on, I am opening the debate on the 31st Article and the two amendments to this Article. Three coalition groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members. There are three amendments. We will first vote on the amendment of the three coalition groups, then we will vote on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members and under the number 3 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but I will announce it again. I am now opening a debate on all three amendments. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Good thing the speakers are still working. Our Group of Members has tabled an amendment to Article 31. This is a minor addition to Article 31 and we are confident and expect that the majority of Members, particularly those from the countryside, will be pleased to support this amendment. I am sure that the amendment will be very useful both for Pomurje and for the Podravska region, the region, Posavje, Dolenjska, Primorska and so on - in short, for most of these regions, this proposal is extremely positive and I am sure that Members will support this proposal. The people of Ljubljana may not, but I think we have a majority and that this positive amendment can be accepted and thus allow the Slovenian countryside to come to life in a different light than it has ever been. I would like to ask you to support this proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Can I close the debate? [[Yes, you can.]] May I have your attention, please? We will first vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS, to Article 31. Who's in? [[44 Members.]] Who's against it? [[Nobody.]] I note that the amendment to Article 31 has been adopted. The assembly is adjourned. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is irrelevant. We are also voting on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Who's in? [[Nine MPs.]] Who's against it? [[30 Members.]] I find that the amendment has not been adopted and the assembly has been concluded. I therefore note that one amendment was adopted in the third reading. I ask the representative of the Government, the Minister for the Environment and the Space whether the amendments adopted have led to any non-compliance. It didn't come. Thank you very much. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. Who's in? [[53 Members.]] Who's against it? [[Two Members.]] I take it the law has been passed. While one amendment is to the consumer protection law, but the LDS Group is still a member, I think it has announced an amendment to the consumer protection law that is not yet in place, so we cannot complete this 18th point today, but we will finish it tomorrow. That's how I'm closing the session for today. Allow me, please, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Pucko, to ask you nicely to meet in 15 minutes after this closed meeting that today is the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Please, on the basis of the request of the committee presidents, I'll give you their briefings. I am also informing the members and members of the Infrastructure Committee that the Chairman of the Committee also convenes a meeting of the Committee 15 minutes after the end of - 5 minutes where Mr Janc is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u265	Will you give me your word, Madam Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u266	Here you go, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u267	I inform the members of the Infrastructure Committee that the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee will continue in five minutes, following the adjournment of the meeting of the State Assembly in Room 212.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-22-SDZ3-Izredna-43.ana.u268	Thank you very much. You heard the message. Thank you all so much and good night.
