ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Silva Črnugelj, Roman Jakič, Milan Kopushar, Leopold Kremjar, Anton Partljič, mag. Majda Travel until 2 p.m., Cyril Pucko, Franci Rokavec, Joseph Spindler, Matjaž Švagan, Davorin Terčon. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. Enlargement: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the assembly that the agenda be extended by considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law - an urgent procedure. I ask the representative or the representative of the government if he wants a word. He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. Apparently, you didn't all vote because of Comrade Lavrinz. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u2	Mr. President. This camera obviously stopped for too long, and the control lamp on the card didn't light up when I pressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u3	What do we do now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u4	Now it's dawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u5	We're re-voting. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item as the second item of the agenda. We vote on the establishment of the agenda as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 57 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Before we move on to the first item of the agenda, we are moving on to the NOTE ON THE STOPMENT OF THE MANDAT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION. On 4 October 2004, Ambassador Dorijan Marsič informed the National Assembly that he had begun to serve as Director of the International Mine Action and Assistance Foundation. In accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly takes note of the following conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Member Dorian Maršič took office on 4 October 2004 as director of the international institution, the Mine Action and Assistance Foundation for Mine Victims and therefore, in accordance with the fifth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, terminates the mandate of today." I hereby conclude the meeting by taking note of the conclusion of the decision. We're moving on to one. PERFORMANCE OF THE PROBLEMS OF THE SUSTAINABLE RENEWAL IN THE COMMUNITY OF THE DRAFT DECISION. The material was submitted by a group of 24 Members with first-signed John Janša. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to explain the material. Mr Siniša Germovšek and Jože Tanko have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! First, I would present the intention of the proposer of this extraordinary meeting and perhaps draw attention to whether this point makes sense or does not make sense or should it be sooner or later. I personally believe that we must talk about this subject for the following reasons: that is, we must bridge the gap and establish dialogue between the two very conflicting issues. On the one hand, earthquake recovery operators have already consistently presented their views, their views, especially as a success story, and on the other hand all the attempts made so far, all the arguments, in particular in the case of changes to the law. [[This law has been amended four times.]] , they were rejected sooner or later. However, since it is certain that the earthquake’s recovery has gone to a dead end, this dialogue is necessary, this is a confrontation of arguments, views, or even I think that this is the only way out of this dead end. In particular, the report that we have received and which was filed by the Government's Infrastructure Committee on 22 July is still in the same direction, it is said that on the one hand we have nothing wrong with the fact that there was no weakness, therefore there is no need for any reaction in this direction. On the one hand, however, if we look at what is in the report or what is known to us so far, and on the other hand the facts that are particularly affected in the earthquake area, we see that this breakthrough is very large. If we don't bridge it, of course, there's nothing good in the future for the harm. Indeed, even the report continues to show that the story of success, the story of great achievements, the story of brilliant solutions, and I think that we will not go far this way and that it is necessary to look at the second side of the medal, because the story of success has ended, the success story of the 1998 earthquake, 12 July of this year, and the earthquake that hit our area again has relentlessly set the mirror also for the 1998 earthquake. In fact, the Slovenian public, including this congregation, is aware of this area, of how great achievements have been made in this reconstruction in various areas, since design, construction achievements, everything has been in superlatives. We have even observed several times that this could be one of those things that we as a model would offer elsewhere, how to deal with the consequences of natural disasters, in this particular case, with the consequences of a severe earthquake. Well, on July 12th he broke this story and landed it and the whole story of excellence, of perfection, of it remained quite few. Initially, it was only an argument that none of the restored objects had collapsed. This is a fact, but, of course, the question is whether the objects have been restored according to the doctrine, according to the instructions that have been ordered, and are again damaged, of course we cannot claim from the affected gratitude that they have not broken down and perhaps buried anyone else below us. Furthermore, the claims that they will withstand at least one degree a stronger earthquake than it was in 1998, in fact, ended in the response to the questions of the affected, as no object has broken. This is a very bad comfort for those who have lost their roof for the second time. And the second time they go on their way, tormented and long-lasting, to come to their own house, to come to their own house. Of course, there are many who have been hurt for the first time. And if a mirror was installed on July 12th, many avoid looking inside to actually figure out what was wrong to set such a base, such a starting point, so that from now on it will be more successful. Of course, this is not possible if so far it has been said that everything was fine, that everything was at a high level. That's exactly what the report says. Then I can regret that that desire to finally confront, dialogue, will not be realized. It is also clear from this report that there were no mistakes or were very small, but to a small extent that the other, everything else, did not have to be changed, nothing needed to be corrected, because everything was fine. Actually, there was only one mistake. And this mistake has not yet been blamed by the state technical office or the Ministry of Environment and Space. This only mistake was that on July 15th he arrived 15 years early. And that, of course, he also revealed the other side of the medal. In view of the fact that we have tried to explain in the material what a special signal should be, the warning that it will change and go away would, of course, only try to make some significant points here. All are aware of the circumstances surrounding the earthquake that struck our area again on 12 July. And the figures, as well as other data, are even more comprehensive in the government's report. So I'd avoid it. Of course, immediately in the first days, it was the most shocking finding that, with the very great damage caused by this July earthquake, there was also a large number of buildings that had been rebuilt after the Easter earthquake in 1998 that they had suffered considerable damage. From day to day, it turned out to be quite a lot. The media also indicated that in fact it is worth asking what was wrong with the renovation in 1998, that the facilities did not hold up and that every day it showed that more and more objects were very badly damaged. These questions, however, were the most unfortunate and most demanding answers to these questions, especially those affected by the renovations that had to be done after a few years. Finally, such questions were also raised by a civil initiative which collected some of the 500 signatures of the support and which required very clear answers on possible liability for the 1998 method, the concept of renewal. The expert response to why the facilities failed to withstand and, of course, to ensure that the damage that has been done again will be reimbursed to the victims of the State in full. Well, there's actually no answer to these questions yet. Although they are partially embedded in a change of law. We also have partial answers in the report on the assessment of some damaged objects. But, of course, there are still no such answers. In turn, in order to ease this media pressure, the government acted very quickly, promised on Friday that all chimneys would be repaired, but today it has a condition such that some over 40% of the chimneys are repaired and winter is here. And the reasons, of course, should be to worry about those responsible or how the affected families will ensure the heating of facilities that are still fit to stay. The following steps - quickly, on the nose, the law's correction was adopted and, of course, with very high speed built replacement facilities - are encouraging the conviction that avoiding analysis and avoiding clear answers is actually concealing the fact that there was an earthquake recovery from 1998 a great professional, financial, moral and political fiasco. By the time the concept of renewal was adopted in 1998, of course, we can now hear arguments that the renewal is based on a legal basis. However, with all the changes, proposals have been repeatedly rejected, which would have been particularly beneficial to the affected, and would have been facilitated mainly by financial burdens. And of course, marriage with all its changes, such as it is, certainly cannot hold or allow matters to be changed in such a way that they are better for the affected. In all these amendments to the law, arguments, mainly from local communities, were rejected in advance. Many times they were not worth a good judgment, but of course a bulldozer, who was oriented as he was, led on. The underlying drawback was already in the fact that State aid was intended for static recovery rather than for resettlement. So the static restoration of the building that was set up by the law meant that the facility would be restored to withstand the earthquake. As he endured, we saw. Of course, to complete the project, a large contribution was needed by the investor affected himself, and many times this contribution was not available because he had already committed himself to static renewal and spent all his savings. Of course, we have warned that a staticly restored object that is not habitable does not really need much. And this fact, that many of the affected have been financially exhausted in static recovery, shows up and drags on to these days. The fact that financial burdens were disproportionately burdened is also evident, measurable. And black has always tried to show with average values that the average amount of credit is not high and in fact the average is bearable, that the average obligation is not high, and this is true. The average is also bearable, but we know what the average means. On average, all those affected who suffered minor damage and were actually able to eliminate it by means of smaller means have done so. Otherwise, the burdens are very high and have increased further because they increased during the so-called moratorium. The cost of the renovation was also clearly too expensive. Although the report indicates that they were below the market prices of construction services for reconstruction. That doesn't even hold. In fact, up to the regulation setting construction prices, construction bids were up to twice as low as those resulting from the introduction of these new prices. And in fact, the builders who came from elsewhere to the area were just wondering how it could be that the items were so high; of course, they had nothing against good profits. At the outset, the country gave up measures that are most effective for unloading - that is to cancel the tax on embedded materials and services - although we have a very effective case in Furlania. Furthermore, what was basically wrong was the inequality before the law. With the basic law we have already – although some of the adjustments have been made to some categories – we have had the fact that the affected have not had equal opportunities to obtain the amount of State aid, that this inequality has increased, and we can find that the last amendment of the law has introduced new inequalities in a more drastic way. As far as the organisation is concerned, the state technical office has been and is still a large apparatus, within the state technical office all the work has been done; we can say from monopolization, from the beginning, from protocol, design, choice of contractor to financial aspect and at the end of supervision, all this has been done by the state technical office. The report also reads that it is likely that different solutions may be more appropriate in the revision of projects, as well as in the monitoring process. Well, as well as the development aid provided for in the law did not achieve its objective, in particular in terms of opening jobs, of a greater upturn of investors in the area; but there was no reason why the law was unstimulating in this direction. If we look at the construction aspect, what is crucial, why the restored objects have been so badly damaged, we can find that the profession is trying to defend the doctrine on all scales, but it has not proved itself to be a very wrong way. And if you live in the area, you don't have to be a major construction expert to overlook that fact. The way to rebuild, without providing adequate foundations, without ensuring a different interconnection of stone walls, all of this is visible with a free eye and really does not need to be a doctor at the university to find that only injecting into the empty was very wrong and did not work. But it was one of the most expensive items in the restoration of these objects, and of course it says a lot in itself. At that time - today it is argued that the preservation of cultural heritage, which was very right - forced and at any cost restored objects, even though the walls were catastrophically weak. This meant a very costly restoration, on the other hand, the fact that the new constructions and the facilities that have been renovated in the right way have actually carried this earthquake very well, in fact, constructively without problems, and today we are going to a different extreme. Today, however, everything on the average is collapsing, including houses that are repairable, which can be repaired, but what is collapsed and are envisaged replacement constructions. Today, when you see objects that have been investigated by these commissions, you can also create your own perspective on this injection. In short, it's just a financial perspective. The financial aspect, as I have already mentioned, of the unfavourable financial structure in which all the resources of the affected were actually used for static renovation of the facility, meant that, in order to complete the project, there was a lack of resources and no indication in the report that the S-project or static renovation of the facility represented 85% of the feasibility of the facility. That information certainly doesn't hold. On average, it means a static object, after it has been cut down, even less, but between the 60s and 70s per cent of the feasibility of the facility, up to a maximum of 75 and not 85. And it is said that the effort that had to be made to move in was that some had not yet complete the facility. Nor is it true, as I mentioned earlier, that the prices of construction services were below the market. Under the market. There are many comparisons by item, and this can be very professionally found that the builders had great profits. This means that there has been too much emphasis on the fact that each natural disaster is a big deal. I don't even grow the illusion that it's different. The only question is whether it is right for such a great deal to pay the victims who are then punished for the second time. It is said that an already unfriendly nature took their home, did them great material damage, and then, of course, with the concept of restoration, they must pay for the removal of these consequences beyond their capabilities and beyond reasonable measure. In these proceedings, there was a whole series of cases that caused inequality. The transition from the transport tax to VAT has already affected many of them, although it has been ensured that the transition will not be cost-effective, it has not been so and, of course, it has been affected, but not by the sequences themselves, but by the time they arrived. But they came in line after that July 1st, after the introduction, and this dramatically impressed them with the whole construction, which subsidies of course were not available for this. The same applies to the auctioning of construction services that took place every year. And from these favorable housing loans, we hear that TOM+0 was convenient. People can tell you a lot of stories that are different from what is stated, the average annuity of 9 thousand or 10 thousand or 11 thousand, but they tell you that now, three or four years after that, they haven't started paying off the principals. And given that they didn't rent the loans themselves at their own request, but that natural disasters forced them to do so, that's certainly not right. The same story is repeated in the case of development credits. Although there was a large campaign at the time for individuals to implement their programmes through the fisheries fund, today most regret that it is on the verge of bankruptcy and are being repaid without being able to do so. In the state technical office - as it was said, all procedures, all procedures went through the state technical office, and it actually dictated, and not as it felt in the report, when people gathered themselves, changed projects, all things were to the point, the commas were confirmed in the state technical office and without its approval nothing happened, with a simple argument, if you will in your own way, give up state aid and you will be without it. As in these four cases, which were supposed to be the only ones to happen wrong, it was evident that supervision or design, implementing contracts, financial payments and supervision went through the state technical office. And this certainly did not make sense because the supervisors on the payroll of the state technical office were also loyal to this state office. Every time there were disputed situations with investors and supervisors, they were, of course, on the side of the state technical office on their official duty, which is highly illogical. It's always the supervisor who defends the investor's interests, not the other way around. There's probably not much to change about what we should change back. However, some corrections would be necessary, and we have also proposed them many times. And, in fact, to set the right one, there is a technical and professional approach, because it is now going to the extreme, as we have heard. Nothing should have broken before, now it's all coming down. And, of course, now that the assembly facilities were not too desirable, today they should only be mounted, although there are many very good and suitable solutions in between. If we look at what happened after July 12th. After July 12th, of course, all the actions of the Ministry of Environment and Space and Energy and the State Technical Office have gone in the direction of reducing the impact of these errors, which are very visible, which are very obvious. Since there was no money and at least because there was no money in the state budget, as usual, it started by acquiring time and looking for some other options. At first, the question was whether it would be a new chasm. Of course, no one was hoping to introduce a new detour, since the first one was adopted, we all know how. Therefore, this year they invented or saw the possibility of financial holes being covered by donors, taking out insurance payments to people, and possibly transferring certain dividends from certain activities for this purpose. The adoption of a law, which was on the door to the nose on 22 July and was totally unnecessary with such an urgency - also proposals that came from a local mile and were very rough - took time for everyone to face the arguments together and find out what was most appropriate for further work to address the consequences, but this did not happen. There's not a lot of good on the necks of a law-abiding man. It is essential that he has covered and provided a legal basis for the restoration of damaged objects in full, and everything else is either paper or even causes resentment and resentment among people. Indeed, this amendment of the law also brings inequality before the law and all those who have been injured by the July process will have the right to state aid under a system law which is very unfavourable, which is more unfavourable than the present law. This was pointed out very clearly on the Committee on 22 July, but of course, like all things, it was smoothly rejected and denied. Well, and this inequality appears to be, says those who will renew the 1998 facilities, those who are new, these differences in the possibilities for state aid are enormous. The second thing that has caused great dissatisfaction is the deduction of insurance from State aid. People can't understand this at best, not at all, but the claim that it means incentives for insurance. People simply cannot understand the stimulus if the person who has not insured is not counted against him, and the person who has insured will be left with half the insurance premium that he has paid for this purpose. And, of course, in the part that I consider to be paper-based, which is certainly positive, this developmental part, which, by the way, places a lot of necessary money, budget money in the area of infrastructure, only in practice do we know how much of this money actually comes into the area, we know how much it came into Zasavje, we know how much it came through asbestos law and probably what. But I repeat, this matter is very paper in place, and in practice, let us wait and hope that it will not go the same way as those specific sectoral development laws have purposed, benevolent and well-intentioned, but not after or a few percent of it. Well, the next thing that appears to be inequality and continues is, of course, the question of owners who do not have a permanent residence and who try to place it on the edge with the weekend label. Also, the information that, in fact, in the 1998 earthquake, 2611 facilities had no injury status, were not eligible for State aid, did not mean anything, and this experience prompted our proposal to grant injury status to Slovenian citizens living outside the earthquake area, and this does not merely mean State aid. We can allege that they do not get you any State aid, but the status of the injured person means that you are entitled to use all the professional institutions operating within this, to static information, to designers, to basic information. If you don't have a status, they'll thank you at the door. You don't have a permanent place to stay and a good time, which is really wrong. I would not repeat the arguments that have already been said that this is actually an obstacle to others. If we hear an argument that the state can't help everyone, we can agree with it in one way or another, but we have to ask ourselves, whose are these people, who are so quickly put away. We don't even allow them to use existing institutions and professional services, which doesn't mean a substantial extra cost if we end up saying [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] If I keep going. [[...]] In this amendment to the law, it was said that this anomaly, it is said that the July victims will have less chance of State aid to try to mitigate with the donor fund, with donor funds, then I can say that this is also done in a very unfortunate way. Indeed, a person could imagine that donor funds and donor funds would help the injured to close the financial structure as it has been under the law in force so far, or those unable to do so, to close the financial structure and enable the renovation of the facility. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but as you follow from the newspaper, donors have a house to move in with, and others will not get anything or much less, and we will see it in the future soon. So, the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster we've turned into some kind of gambling. So the one who gets the raffle gets the whole house, and the others, of course, accept that it doesn't. Yes, with these donor issues, many things have been done wrong and, above all, in a very high haste, we can only back up with two arguments. Two donor homes have already completed chimneys, and they will break down, and one donor contract has been cancelled, because in the end people's reactions have found that there are certain shortcomings and then they have been annulled. In short, these donors are trying in a very wrong way, because it is certainly not a wise decision, even less fair and even the least fair, that someone gets everything, and others we will see what, and nothing can. And if I touch the government's report and those four facilities that were supposed to be the only ones that were damaged by the mistakes. Well, here too, this information has to be looked through the light, that everyone has not yet been assessed, that 15 objects have been inspected, and if we compare it, this is a very large percentage, and it also speaks for the fact that the renovation was not as successful as it was shown. We are now at the point where, in fact, whoever is looking for a way out of this blind street will have to invest a lot of energy and will and, of course, everything that is imported will not be fixed and eliminated. But at this point, surely the affected people deserve to make these efforts and to focus on helping the most affected ones to strive for equality if, of course, it is not 100% possible in advance, but not to take care of the smaller part, but for the others we will see what time will show. I would like to express my conviction that, of course, we are treating the consequences of natural disasters as a game of luck that, of course, this is not right. And I have a feeling and I hope that the 3rd, now in October, was clearly said to the weakest article goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u7	Thank you. My friend Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. And a nice greeting for me, too. I think the time of choice for this session is somehow inappropriate. It would be much better and much more rational to discuss this point at the time before the elections, as we suggested at the meeting of the National Assembly, and not at this dead time when the whole matter is somehow distorted and is just waiting for the procedure to be concluded. Above all, I think that this is some kind of abuse, because in this pre-election period it would be far more reasonable to talk about the mistakes of reconstruction, the earthquake recovery that we are doing now. The fact is that it was possible to prepare a report on the recovery process much earlier than in two and a half months. So it was possible to prepare it at the time we submitted it, especially because what you have already stated in the Rapporteur is that during the first year of work in the state technical office a standard report on the work of the state technical office, which was sent to responsible persons at the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, was introduced. During all this time they were also appointed to the Colleges of Ministers, on a regular basis twice a week, where the competent services of the Ministry and the state technical offices reported on their work. It reviewed the implementation of previous decisions and adopted new decisions to continue the implementation of the earthquake recovery. This - this is also stated in the report on page 26 - has achieved a basic objective, based on the mutual information of all services involved and those responsible, ensuring the coordinated functioning and implementation of the earthquake recovery in all its elements. In short, from what I have quoted, it is quite clear that the Ministry and all the competent authorities have been informed on a weekly basis, twice a week and even more, of all the events, of all the moves and of all the measures proposed by the state technical office, and otherwise I am not sure that the state-technical office has also obtained the consent of the competent authority. In short, this earthquake recovery took place exactly as it was submitted and as confirmed by the Ministry. The other thing that is somehow problematic in this earthquake recovery is that the weaker earthquake has actually done a lot of damage to the facilities that were under all the regulations, after all the coordinations, etc. Even the sanitizers. And I think it is necessary here not only to discuss costs but not only to discuss, I don't know, mistakes, but above all it is a necessary debate on responsibility. For it is obvious that in this process it is an integral responsibility, a responsibility which is drawn from the ground, and a right from the state technical office to the highest peaks of the State's executive power. The fact is that the earthquake somehow coincided with the 1998 earthquake, and the fact is that the government acted immediately. This I think it is possible to find out that it is also the right thing to say, but it is likely that this suddenness and willingness of the government to act immediately is more due to the time we have met, that is, pre-choice time than a serious, real approach. The fact is that this is an immediate approach and all of these promises, which were given at that time, that it was to a great extent more about masking the state of recovery until then than for some serious approach. Because some of the objects were immediately destroyed, and then some of the objects were subsequently demolished during the change of approach, and more or less only material evidence for poor reconstruction was removed. It is also true that this situation has taken place since 12 July, in particular, to trigger an over-cautionary of the quality of the earthquake recovery and also of the approach, as it is already clear from the report that it was a fully closed decision-making system. This is in relation to the state technical office - Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, it was a monopolistic matter, without quality control, neither the national assembly nor the public. And all of these high-quality measures, in narrations, were sold through a distinct, and this needs to be stressed, a quality "piar". The service, which serviced the public with information about the course of the earthquake recovery, about the quality of the earthquake recovery, worked very well. Sadly, though, this quality did not have a proper basis for real or real renewal. The fact is that some of the moves have been made, including some of the analyses that show that the measures implemented have not been carried out in a qualitative manner or have not been as comprehensive as they have been in the public eye. I might just read here, or I'll read the conclusion of the report of the construction agency because I think it's pretty real, it says pretty good things about all these things that have been trying to show off differently. I quote, these are the conclusions of the construction agency: "The analysis of the situation of the selected ten objects damaged by the earthquake on 12.7.2004 shows that the technical documentation for the reconstruction mainly provides for appropriate consolidation measures to ensure the expected level of earthquake resistance for the facility. However, documentation is lacking in other respects. As a rule, it does not contain the elements necessary to demonstrate the eligibility of the consolidation procedures. For example, there is a lack of description of the structure and recording of the damage condition, description and evidence of the mechanical properties of the embedded materials, verification of the resistance of the structure in the existing state and so on. It is also often not made on the basis of verified design dimensions. As a rule, the documentation does not contain any accounting evidence of voltage in the walls and bases, nor does it control earthquake resistance in a solid state. Very rarely, however, the necessary care is devoted to non-constructional elements whose injuries or falls after the earthquake may cause the victims or cause the objects to become useless after the earthquake. The analysis of the impact of the 12.7.2004 earthquake on buildings has shown more than obvious that in redesigning and demonstrating the earthquake resistance of buildings it is necessary to introduce the principles, procedures and methods laid down by the European Standard Eurocode 8 for earthquake-resistant design of structures. Given that the standard is available in Slovenian, the reference to the still applicable Yugoslav rule of 1981 is professionally unjustified. The analysis of the works carried out at the sites examined shows that the fortifications were too often carried out professionally poorly or carried out by insufficiently qualified operators under insufficient strict supervision. Although technological procedures are not very difficult, they represent special works that can only be carried out by verified operators with the necessary experience. Procedures, especially injections of walls, require careful preparation, sometimes prior research, and above all accuracy during implementation. The deficiencies identified show that the established quality assurance system in the case of the facilities under analysis has not always been consistent and effective, neither in the quality control phase of the production of technical documentation nor in the performance quality control phase." I believe that this conclusion tells us a great deal about what the drafters of the request for the report and for the extraordinary meeting stated and mentioned among the measures, in short, that it was a very incomplete activity of the state technical office, which was vertically covered by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The whole system was then, both from planning, execution, accounting and so on, carried out in the state technical office and it was possible here to cover a number of errors. The fact is, the earthquake surprised that the earthquake had actually taken everything by surprise and that something had to be done and acted. These rapid activities, the government's rapid promises, have masked the weakness, and this increased solidarity has covered the quality of the work and tried to remedy these unforeseen consequences. I'd like to draw attention to another fact. The fact is that the legislation we have in the field of natural disasters is not the best. They're not good district laws and they're not good system law. Sectoral laws are not good, they are obviously not good, because we are correcting them, and we are correcting this several times, the specific law on the Soot, four times, while the system law to replace all these laws that we have adopted does not provide or allow for practical application in practice. In short, it is a system that is very blocked and then tries to resolve the matter by extending or by partial changes to laws that have actually been passed intentionally before the system law. There is another problem with this legislation. I think these laws are more laws on how not to help than on how to help. The fact is, both in the agricultural field and in this earthquake law, we have built-in instruments that take away certain systemic things from people that they would receive in any case. The Act or in the field of agriculture is an ECO-0 payment which, in the event of an accident, is taken from people or owners or lessors and is charged to state aid. This eliminates the full function, the role of the EKO of payments. Because these are compensatory payments. And if they are ever entitled to these compensatory payments, they are especially affected when they are particularly affected. Not that these aids are taken away from them and accounted for for incurring damage that has purely some other substance and other meaning. This is similar in this case with the accounting of these insurance companies. I think that this measure, this procedure is inappropriate and in some ways prevents rationality in this area, insurance has a certain meaning and state aid has another logic and other content. And now those who have secured facilities get reduced insurance aid. Which I don't think makes any sense. I believe that the proposals we have drawn up in the opposition, as well as the draft conclusions, are rational and I am counting on you to support these proposals. After all, it is more or less about examining the situation and examining the measures, and these proposals do not make any further commitments to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u9	Thanks, buddy Tanko. The word is from a fellow Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Well-welcome government officials! The drought is characterised by the fact that it is exposed to more frequent and intense earthquake risks, which shows some intermittent earthquakes at higher or lower rates in the last shorter period. It is also an area characterised by the fact that the population is shrinking or that the population is declining, that there are few investments, that the economic downturn, that it is at the border, is poorly linked to the infrastructure, to the other parts of Slovenia, and in particular to the centre, Ljubljana. All of these are circumstances that should also be taken into account in the earthquake recovery. Because it's not just some mechanical rebuilding of buildings, it's about bringing life back to this place. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the government has taken these circumstances into account in the design of the concept, as well as in the National Assembly, after 1998 and has also taken into account some of these circumstances in the proposed earthquake recovery programme. With the restoration of damaged houses and infrastructure, it is necessary to ensure everything that gives rise to and revives the place, the renewed will to live, the preservation of settlements and economic development, because life in these places is hard. There appears to be something else that has not been good working on countries and state institutions in this area in the last few years. In New Slovenia, we believe that the consideration of the reports is timely for several reasons and, of course, we should consider it earlier. Why is that necessary? In the first place, that the bad deeds that have been done may be eliminated, with the restoration actually completed, but since a new earthquake has arisen, it would be a good source, a good basis for overcoming shortcomings and better conduct. A second reason is that those who have been carelessly engaged in or even engaged in illegal activities would also be penalised. The government has needlessly delayed this by dropping the consideration of the report into a dead period of government responsibility, as well as during a dead period of the national assembly. In this respect, the National Assembly also has its obligations vis-à-vis citizens. This has shown me how important this report is, in fact, in relation to responsibility and in relation to how it should be followed. In New Slovenia, we agree that the concept of reconstruction or the concept of reconstruction should be such as to eliminate the consequences and regulation of infrastructure, to allow for additional reflections, adaptations that serve to improve the quality of life, to protect national and cultural and natural heritage and to improve opportunities for demographic, cultural and social development. When we look at this report, and especially if we look at the situation, of course the objectives have not been achieved - some do. We can't be so uncritical and say nothing good happened. The report should focus on what has not been achieved, what has been done poorly and what has not been done in order to correct and improve it. However, the best report can be given by citizens and citizens or citizens and citizens in that place who have suffered trauma. They also told us openly, at the time of the electoral campaign itself, that the additional trauma was also a means of rescue; the additional April either for credits or for operators, for the state technical office, how it worked. Did it literally work to help citizens or as some kind of barrier, such as a high instance that hangs out with people and leaves no initiative, development of own knowledge, effort, or anything else? The Council for the Development of the Suča was set up to coordinate the reconstruction of the earthquake. During the initial period, this ran relatively well, often meeting. Then he quit his job. This is a legal and legitimate body, and beyond the authority of the world, it is not possible to work. That's what the law says. That is why he was also appointed by law. Injurers and contractors had no choice but to be imposed on them in large cases. After the April 1998 earthquake, the objects that were restored after the earthquake were reshuffled, as well as some earthquakes. However, there are certainly many objects that have suffered severe injuries that they should not have suffered - after providing for those who carried out them. The state technical office, as has already been said, should be a coordinating body. The function of the State Technical Office was awarded without invitation to tender to the Nova Gorica Project. By means of his powers or his concession, he also chose and enforced his performers. Therefore, there has also been a revolt in some cases by those who have suffered earthquake damage and have been forced to resume. It insisted on adaptations of severely damaged houses that were statically useless and forced affected citizens into adaptation instead of using more appropriate materials and a better way of building that better responds to the risks of an earthquake. However, science from geology and earthquakes has only come to such a state that it can offer good results and good solutions. No assembly buildings were allowed. Apparently, he's been letting himself go lately. The State must take care in particular of the preservation of the external image. The functionality of the building is within the competence of or in the capacity of citizens. That's why he has nothing to do with this. The landscapers and architects insisted stubbornly on the so-called "Bovine House". What is this "bow's house"? That's probably what other people will say. It is also possible to achieve these objectives by means of assembly works. Besides, what are the houses for in the first place? Are they primarily designed for a landscape view? Are they? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, thank you very much for the comments, because when you discuss it, will you be able to discuss - whether the tourist fits in, or whether people live in it? [[...]] However, it is possible to harmonize one or the other goals. It's possible. This was also proved by our neighbors, who were also forced to rebuild buildings. You can make a type of house with modern construction, even with a montage building that takes into account the cultural heritage of Slovenia, the cultural landscape in which this building will function, in which people will feel good, will also be safe. That's possible. That's what this is about. That's what this is about! To continue some of the observations made by those involved in the construction work; either injured persons, or performers, or experts. Without the necessary soil analysis, renovation procedures were laid down that went hand in hand with the construction institute and its implementing companies. Renovation in its own direction was mentioned, where professional advice could be offered. In this case, if the victims and the contractors did not stick to each other, they would also be responsible for this. However, citizens and contractors are so reasonable that they will act rationally and meaningfully. So the state technical office was in a lot of trouble and coercion. If, in the 1998 earthquake, to an excessive extent, they demanded reconstruction, including very badly damaged buildings, which has proved to be bad and rational in some cases, we would now like to demolish the buildings to a large extent. The calculated costs for the administration included people who were only supposed to visit these places. This resulted in artificially lowering the average cost per head of operators in the office, while administrative costs were still high. We have some concrete cases in this report. I would like to ask that the government be credible in this regard, giving true exact information and reports. It is known that there are several versions; and what this national assembly wants, what citizens want - a credible report, not an embellishment, but not just a malignment without arguments, but a real report. In order to correct the mistakes and to ensure that the earthquake relief and reconstruction that will have to be done after this last earthquake will be good. That's why we do it! A report is therefore being drawn up. The report is not about urging voters to vote or not, but about doing so. We cannot agree that a person or family will remain in Posoča, who has repaired the house three times or four times, and the country has left it on the edge of the world to remain and endure, even though the Primors are known for being persistent and conscious Slovenians. Such a state-level attitude cannot be based on state institutions to one large part of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u11	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. We are moving on to a presentation of the opinions or views of the groups of Members. I'm sorry, first of all, the report of the parent's working body. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has considered the material and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, my colleague Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. At today's meeting, the Infrastructure Committee, namely at its 28th emergency meeting, addressed the issue of the earthquake reconstruction of the Soča, which was addressed by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Janez Janša. Member Siniša Germovšek and Jože Tanko participated in the meeting of the Committee on behalf of the proposaler and representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. In addition to the basic material, the members of the Committee were informed of a report on the aftermath of the earthquake in Soča in 1998 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the conclusions of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee adopted at its 27th emergency meeting on 22 July this year, on the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the earthquake recovery of facilities and the promotion of development in Soča. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Service considers that the objectives set out in the proposed decision in points (a) and (b) and (c) require specific treatment, in particular those objectives should be considered in the light of the solutions adopted by the amendment of the Act on the subversive restoration of buildings and the promotion of development in the Soča during the month of July of this year. From this point of view, the service points out that the proposed objectives could not be provided solely by government measures without adequate legal basis. Member Siniša Grmovšek presented the issue of the earthquake reconstruction of the Soča at the meeting of the Committee on behalf of the proposed materials. The Minister of Environment, Space and Energy presented the Government's report on the post-shock recovery in Posač in 1998. In the short discussion that followed, some critical comments were made on the Government's report and the opinion given. After the discussion, the Committee moved to a vote on the proposal for a decision to propose to the national assembly that the proposed decision of the drafters should be adopted in the text as proposed in the presentation. The Committee did not adopt the proposed decisions. Thus, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the decision of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed John Janša in the text, as proposed in the text, should therefore not be accepted on the issue of the earthquake reconstruction of the Soča. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Janc. I give the floor to a representative of the government - Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Despite the criticisms we are hearing here, the earthquake’s reconstruction in Posoča has succeeded in many areas, in my deep conviction, with positive surpluses. Among other things, because colleagues were able to set up a transparent system with a range of control mechanisms at different levels before I was run by the Ministry, based on the poor experience of 1976. This has also been confirmed on several occasions by different opinions, from inspections to budgetary checks, and on the last one to quality checks, which we ordered from the two expert groups in August this year, and which it found after reviewing all 1444 facilities, that there were clearly some irregularities in the four facilities, i.e. 0.3% of the renovated facilities. Of course, the fact that no error has been made cannot be ruled out, especially if we are counting on a huge project involving a large number of companies, designers, 80 project companies and individual entrepreneurs, 107 design teams, 138 construction companies and occasionally up to 200 executive teams. If there had been no mistake in all this powerful machine, of course, it would have been a miracle. However, it is important that we have a control system in place and that we also detect these errors and, of course, correct them accordingly. Out there in the lobby - although I did not see any interest - the result of the six-year work of the earthquake reconstruction is carefully stored on microfilms with all individual documents and each of you can closely follow any event, any document for each of these 1444 objects. We have not brought documentation for all, but for 3 samples to see what can be done, and if you are interested in any of these 1444 objects, you can go look for the last sheet that was created in the design and implementation phase. The National Technical Office, which took care of this, has successfully coordinated the work of all those involved in the reconstruction system, both external operators, external designers and professional study producers. The professional criteria for earthquake recovery have been met, both at the level of the rules as commanded by Eurocode 8 and, of course, subject to Slovenian rules. True, an old Yugoslav rule is still in force, and of course it is not bad, since it is ultimately based on many earthquake experiences in the former country, and, of course, it provides adequate earthquake or earthquake construction. Struka, Slovenian, has taken a united approach to reconstruction and supported it with all the knowledge of earthquake engineering, which is what it is in Slovenia. But he's got a lot of experience. The type of Slovenian experts who are internationally recognised is whether they have participated in the renewal directly or have made an expert assessment of its implementation. Doubts are unnecessary. However, it is true that as long as I run the Ministry, and certainly my successors, I will insist on the assessment of any dilemma to be expressed. This is also one of the control mechanisms. As the report tells you, we have found this irregularity at four sites on the basis of the consequences of the new earthquake and will, of course, sanction them accordingly. But the new earthquake, given that some of you were talking about how much less important it was, I must say, was an earthquake that was significantly stronger than an earthquake in 1998. But at a precise microlocation. Mostly in the village of Chessocha. There the earthquake was even stronger than the earthquake in Breginj for you in 1976. In short, there was an earthquake that could occur once in 500 years in theory in these places. And thank God it took a very short time, just a few seconds. If it lasted as many seconds as the 1998 earthquake, all buildings, including new buildings, were to be demolished in accordance with all the rules. It was such a big earthquake. Well, and all facilities that had been rehabilitated since 1998, except for those four, have behaved appropriately with the extent of the rehabilitation. Today we need to be aware, even when we are looking at sometimes - now I know practically every injured person personally - when I see what kind of person on TV, how he says that his house has been badly affected by the earthquake this year, and we go back to the documentation, for example, you can look at it, and you will see the statement of the owner of the house, who did not want such an extent of rehabilitation, because he himself did not want to participate financially, and then the projected extent that was designed is substantially reduced. Well, and of course such a little sanitized facility couldn't handle such a powerful earthquake. However, the rehabilitation was carried out professionally and, of course, also taking into account the wishes of individual owners. One of these four objects, if you look at our report, was excellently designed, even brilliantly performed, but because of the owner's desire not to get rehabilitated in this way, but to divert money elsewhere, it was that the facility was not being repaired at all. And it is clear that this year's earthquake has gone very badly. Every time in these past years, when we have been alerted to any doubts, or by municipalities, journalists, individual owners, we have found out where the real problem is and we have solved it, often only by talking. Such a complex system requires a lot of clarification, a lot of cooperation with the owners of damaged facilities, as well as with other institutions, and this is certainly also dependent on the willingness to cooperate with the management of the municipality. I must say that we have excellent cooperation with the municipality of Bovec now, under the current mayor, and that this cooperation is very constructive, but I could not always say this about working with the former mayor. I would also like to draw your attention to the hardships of people associated with natural disasters. She didn't miss it again, and she can't miss it. Such restoration also reveals many times the hardships of families that would otherwise be hidden. There's a lot of people who need help, but we don't notice them. In addition to the restoration of the housing fund, natural disasters in Posoča are an extremely important mechanism for providing support to those who need it, but they have not or would not have warned themselves. The provision of State resources has achieved its purpose in all individual cases through the identification of family financial revenues. By means of these findings, additional State aid, in addition to regular funds, was provided at certain facilities via the so-called mortgage. This is not really a real mortgage, the only owner has to commit himself not to sell this facility for the next 20 years or to keep him or his family or heirs in it. And they received additional state aid if they showed their income weakness. Anyone who asked for it got it, but of course he had to prove his income weakness. And even if, after the renovation had been completed, it had proved that, because of the sudden events or death of one of the partners who had paid, or because of something else - if his income situation had deteriorated, he could have applied this additional state aid in return. Social criteria were the main mechanism for granting state aid. The assessment of the situation at each individual facility, while ensuring uniform rules and criteria for all injured persons, requires a lot of energy and time, but after such treatment we can all be confident that we have done everything possible to achieve the maximum effect of State aid. Today, the drought has a number of advantages compared to that of the 1998 earthquake. The infrastructure has been restored, new access to the facilities has grown, the housing fund has gained value, many local infrastructure facilities, libraries, schools, health homes, all of this has been restored and we have provided better standards for these people. In total, 22 billion tolars were allocated for the total reconstruction, and we renovated 1,374 high-building buildings, or 1444. And all the reconstruction, in my opinion, was carried out in an appropriate manner. However, as regards the responses to the individual findings that I have just heard from the introductory words, they are not in the proposal of the proposers, and I will respond to this later in the time that I, as a representative of the government, belong to me during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u15	Thank you, Minister Kopač, for further explanation of the government's opinion. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, he has the word of his colleague, Samo Bevk, on behalf of the United List of Members of the Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. With a view to remedying the effects of the Easter earthquake in Posoča in 1998, we adopted a special law on earthquake restoration and promotion of development in Posoča. As a whole, with the results of the earthquake recovery and also with the developmental incentives that this region has received, we can be satisfied. The Supreme Court has already had a number of development problems, demographic trends have been and are still very worrying. In 28 years, however, four earthquakes joined all problems. On 12 July 2004, the area was again affected by the earthquake when it seemed to be a disaster at the head of the Bovec. The next day when I visited Bovec, of course completely private, I was not in any delegation, and I talked to people, my acquaintances and friends, they were truly hurt, some completely without the will to do anything, even completely devoted to fate. Among other things, I was in two houses, both of which were completely repaired in 1998, and one of them suffered no consequences, and the other they had to tear down. I must also say from my own experience that the local effects of this earthquake due to the movement of the soil were really strong and comparable to the 1976 earthquake in Breginj. This is also recorded in a government report that we received at the table at this point of the agenda. In such a short time, so many problems can arise in a relatively small territory, it is almost unbelievable. That is why it is essential that all the measures taken in connection with the rehabilitation be placed under scrutiny, but the question arises whether such a discussion is an appropriate place at the time before or after the national assembly; I do not think that, especially because it has not yet been established, nor do we yet have a new government. However, the government in departure has only a task to carry out ongoing business. I think that addressing the earthquake recovery in Posoča could wait for the full creation of both legislation and the executive branch of government. Also because the responsibility of one another and of another will be so clearly shared. The proposed decision, which is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot be implemented only by means of government measures, but a change of law is needed. In the parliamentary group, we accept the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but we do not mind in our Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats if the new government joins the National Assembly with the amendment of the law. We will certainly support good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u17	Thanks, buddy, Bevk. Mr Tone Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, today was the question of when the time was right or when the time was right for this meeting. It is clear that this meeting was convened for a time before the elections and it is true - of course by those who requested it - that today it is right to conclude that there would be much more generalisation and exploitation of this topic for pre-election purposes, as one of the introductory speakers said. I am sure that the rapid response of the Government, the National Assembly, the Infrastructure Committee, etc., after this earthquake, gave birth to a programme, as well as a change of law and so on, an earthquake recovery programme that has greatly enhanced the experience and achievements that have been achieved in the 1998 earthquake recovery. What we would have heard in the pre-election period if today the sovereign was provided here because of a pay phone, that there was no expert to believe that what was wrong with the free eye was visible and that it should be different. The professional public, not only domestic, but also foreign, has recognised or even approved such an approach, as has been done. To whom should we trust as experts from our university, from abroad and from those who have gained this experience in similar natural disasters abroad as well; let us also remember the comparison with the estimates of the earthquake recovery in Furlania-Julia landscape and so on. I am convinced that, at that time, and also on the committee of July, when 14 votes in favour and only one against agreed or decided, the Government decided to prepare a report by 30 September to act in accordance with the options that this country also has when carrying out the tasks that were laid down under the law and the programme, in order to be able to record all that happened. And today, we have an extensive report on the table, and if anyone wants to take a closer look, a more detailed analysis, or individual data. It is not possible to avoid the impression that even in some way it was desirable that certain measures not be implemented so quickly that some forms of aid - even today it has been said that it is not the right approach for one to get everything, the other nothing. As we understand the programme and the resultant assistance provided to all affected is equivalent, so that individual treatments also constitute a differentiated approach and measures appropriate. Why certain priorities have been made, for example, to get early assistance from donors, has been unquestionably ensured in this assembly already in July and even when interpreting in September, that it is to help those most in need, first and to the greatest extent. We are confident that this meeting can only be a continuation of what is yet to be done, and the new government will have to face whatever needs to be done in this reconstruction and what needs to be completed or changed. And I'm sure she'll be as successful as this glass restoration in this previous time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u19	Thank you, colleague Anderlich. My colleague Sok has the floor. He will present the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u20	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The earthquake, of course, does not refer to preeminent or favorable times, nor to whether it is a big night or any other holiday. I think, nevertheless, that, although in pre-election or a favourable time, it is good that we have touched on such important topics as the earthquake in Soča, and that, in fact, we have asked those who have requested this to be dealt with at the meeting, somehow forced the government to come to this national assembly with a very extensive report, which is basically a list of statistics, it is said, a display of the situation, who has received it and how much in this renewal in recent years. However, there is also something in this report; on page 35, the state technical office was actually forced to submit a report. The situation, by the way. She showed the situation on four of the 30 objects she examined. It is said that these facilities were restored after 1998 and again damaged by the earthquake in July 2004. Despite the fact that the state technical office, which ran all the procedures, has chosen both contractors and paid supervisors and through which nothing could be done, the situation that is written here on these four facilities is actually shown according to our assessment in New Slovenia objectively. They themselves find that things have not been in some of them - they say, on these objects which have been examined - carried out as they should have been. They themselves recognise that this is a mistake and that the things involved in this reconstruction should not be overlooked by both designers, contractors and supervisors. So unfortunately, only four objects are covered. The state technical office also notes that the chimneys were not adequately repaired, that the anchors were not as they should have been. Above all, something else is of course - and it is a shame that this report is not included - the report of the construction agency. That's a whole other story. They have examined ten facilities and say - here is something already on behalf of the proposalers, Mr Tanko, from the conclusion of this report, and I would add this. Of the ten cases, with the exception of two cases, the project documentation does not provide for the installation of chimneys and only one provides for the renovation. Then, as far as the injection is concerned, the injection of concrete is supposed to be a patent situation that has been used in the Soča and should produce the relevant results. They are very troubled by this injection in their report. They showed in their report, saying, "As transparent drilling has shown, the execution of injections in the inspection of objects cannot be regarded as successful." So, they've been through 10 objects. What would you say if you went through all the facilities? They conclude: "We can conclude that the situation found is more due to non-professional performance than to the ability of the wall to accept the injection mass. In most cases, the injection was performed only on one side of the wall," which is apparently wrongly estimated, "before initating with the wall was not prevented, so that the injection pipes were not always drilled in the right places. In individual cases, wells were not drilled deep enough inside the wall to penetrate the injection mass in the middle, hollow part of the wall. Therefore, in cases where all the hollow spaces between the stones in the wall were filled with the existing mortar and the unbound plaster, the injection mass could not effectively link the components of the wall to the whole. It is also possible that the wall before the injection was not soaked and the mass was squeezed into the wall, but the existing mortar absorbed water and prevented further mass flow through the hollow and cracked parts of the wall." And so on. The conclusion of their report, of course, is not optimal. And this report, which somehow excuses the work of the state technical office that the government has presented to the national assemblies, of course leaves the possibility of some speculative thinking that the matter is so written to justify a situation. However, respected proponents, otherwise this can be done, but it is not for any real image and for a future good. For, behold, we are talking about an earthquake. There are earthquakes here in this area, in 1976, 1998, in 2004. This earthquake we have now experienced was a 4.9 - magnitude earthquake reported by seismologists. We ask in Novi Slovenija what would happen if it was an earthquake of strength reported to us from Japan or a few days ago from California, where earthquakes of the seventh degree and even more sometimes. And usually these reports end -- they didn't do any material damage. It is said that in these areas they build objects that carry such earthquake suns. What would happen if we faced an earthquake of this magnitude? I think that, of course, the situation would be much more clavatory and that there would actually be a collapse of a large scale. I do not want, of course, to be able to try this in this country. Although the Minister said earlier that such an earthquake can be expected every 500 years - I think you said so, the report is written every 475 years - but this is a bad comfort for people living in this area and already being handicapped in a developmental sense. As far as the works of the state technical office are concerned, I do not understand why Parliament would not actually adopt the conclusions proposed by the signatories, which we have requested to be addressed. For in the future certain procedures will have to be carried out substantially differently. In particular, implementation control will have to be separated from the part of the state technical office. Because, if anything, he's here to hide control. So, control and everything was in the hands of one and the same structure. And this is also what we in the opposition in New Slovenia have repeatedly warned - as far as control is concerned, if you want to ensure that the procedures run as they must. So, control should necessarily be removed from this, because otherwise it happens to you that in the field what should be done is not done. And this is the construction agency in its report that has written clearly and loudly, and once again I point out that this should be included in the government report, no matter what public reactions will then be, because it is too serious a matter for the report to be falsified in some way. The report must be like the actual situation if we are to set up a different policy in this area and ensure a different work. As far as the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters is concerned, this law, Mr Minister, does not solve the pressure of people, this law needs to be corrected. This law leads to those who have secured facilities getting up to 60% - say up to 60%, of course, that could be nothing or 60 - and those who do not have secured facilities up to 40%. This does not mean equality before the law, of course, because normally the facilities are secured by those people who are more wealthy, those who are already poor after social status, but usually do not have, and then such a law is still additional.This will also have to be checked if I am possibly wrong in this statement myself, but I do not think I am wrong. [[...]] I just kind of conclude that this is the case: the one who has the money can protect the one who doesn't have it, but of course he can't. And that's what we wanted to tell you when we adopted this marriage, and unfortunately it didn't work out at the time. As far as donations are concerned, I wouldn't talk about it. In Slovenia it will be necessary to establish a higher degree of solidarity, but of course to be very careful about what this money does, who gets it, because donors do not like to donate if then, for example, they find that this money has not come to the right place and into the right hands. Today, too, we have heard from Minister Kopač that there is not much enthusiasm for people to be donors, while the Prime Minister in this place before the correction of the Sosoča Act said that very many people who are willing to help. It is said that there are two statements which are also addressed to the public, and the question is, where is this matter actually objectively located; I think it is more about the fact that these donors are significantly smaller than was shown to the Slovenian public. Let me get this straight. So, if what you wrote is at a micro location, it's saying it's going through and part of the Bovec this earthquake was so powerful that there was damage to the already repaired objects, then maybe somehow all of this is going to work out. However, if this is not the case, if what the construction office wrote is more true, that the procedures have been carried out incorrectly, it is superficial that even in some places they have not identified any of the injections and so on, that the matter has been paid and then I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not on the right track. I think that this report will actually have to be corrected, that it will be necessary to find out with some truly independent institution where we actually are, that it would not really appear in the end, that we have invented a new one for the needs of the local public - I don't know, one of them was 'joking', but they called it 'The Kickman's earthquake scale', or that we will actually tell what needs to be done and start doing something different, because we spent a lot of money on it and it's a shame that we're using the means to then people in every earthquake to face the same problem again. I hope you will, despite the fact that the Infrastructure Committee has rejected the conclusions of the applicants, that you will decide more responsibly in the National Assembly and will adopt these conclusions. I also propose that the State Assembly include the report of the Construction Act in this report submitted by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u21	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Cukjat colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u22	Dear Chairman, the well-respected presence of a nice greeting. The Slovenian Democratic Party is, of course, pleased that this issue is being addressed here, but is not satisfied that it is being addressed so late, because the mistakes of the previous recovery should be addressed as soon as possible, immediately after the earthquake, after the current earthquake. However, first of all, let me mention some of the data from the construction plant that searched 10 buildings that were repaired after the 1998 earthquake under the direction of the state technical office and are now damaged again. Analysis of these objects has shown, quote: "There are no data in the documentation on the state of construction prior to the operation. Designers have not always checked design dimensions, such as wall thicknesses, so they have repeatedly taken the wrong values into account in the documentation." Further: "Computer evidence is limited to the calculation of newly developed elements to take over vertical gravity. The earthquake resistance of the structure in its current state has not been verified. Except in two cases, no calculation evidence of earthquake resistance of the structure can be found in the project documentation. In these two cases, however, the simplest calculation was made to comply with the earthquake under the Yugoslav rule, which does not give a real assessment of earthquake resistance." Gentlemen, in these ten cases, it has been found that the project documentation for recovery after the 1998 earthquake was completely inadequate. And, of course, it should be borne in mind that everything ran under the strict supervision of the state technical office, and that for projects, 450 projects, the state technical office spent or earmarked 680 million tolars. That means a million 510 grand a project. Gentlemen, today you will receive a project, a quality project, for the new construction of the apartment house for 300 to 700 thousand tolars. This is three times cheaper than the state technical office used for a single project that was obviously inadequate and should have fallen. A building permit for such a project should not be issued. Let me get on with it. How, then, was the rehabilitation carried out under this project itself? In the construction agency report, 10 cases have been investigated, it says, I read only one sentence, "as shown by transparent drilling, the execution of injections in the inspected facilities cannot be regarded as successful." And then, of course, it provides an analysis of ten buildings where 46 injection points were planned, and notes that it was well injected only in six points, there is barely a trace of injection mass in nineteen, and there is no mass at all in twenty-one points. But, gentlemen, all of this was well paid, not on behalf of the state technical office, but on behalf of the loans that these residents have rented and paid to the contractors. Those kind of performers. Given that, of course, the question is, in principle, what is the impact of the funds invested in a renovation of a house, what is the impact of state resources on earthquake recovery, since this is essential. What is the effect of the tax collection that we are going to use for an earthquake recovery? Again, I am using not an imaginary number, but a report from the government that was sent and published in the Rapporteur on 4 October this year - says that the figures for state technical assistance, i.e. the tasks of the state technical office, were spent from the state budget of 3 billion 764 million tolars. The damage to all high - building buildings in the 1998 earthquake, from the earthquake to which the technical offices were intended, is 7 billion 842 million. Gentlemen, half the costs, half the costs is "eat" the state technical office for, of course, projects, for sessions, for various sessions, diaries, kilometers, sightseeing, inspections and so on. The estimated damage to all high buildings was 7 billion 800 000 and the state technical office spent 3 billion 700 million. Gentlemen, what is the efficiency of the budget? That's all I'm asking. And of course, if Mr Kopač now says that the renewal was professionally successful, I do not believe him - at least now after the elections I could pour pure wine - and that the control system was excellent, then I find that if the control system was excellent, then it is the fault of the inefficiency of the budget resources only on those which had excellent control system. If I were to say, well, we failed to control it, the state technical office controlled itself, there was no external control, there was no verification, and so on, I'd understand. But since he says and assures that the control system was excellent, then it is known that the one who had an excellent control system in his hands did not prevent it. It did not prevent such a spillover of budgetary resources without effect. We have encountered the same inefficiencies or, I would say, inadvertent or reckless spending of taxpayers over and over again in this mandate. We know how Trnovo Hospital was sold, where the Minister of Health somehow missed 300 to 400 million tolars because of non-economics. And just one case of inequity, even more clearly, let me make it clear, because this is part of the same problem that needs to be resolved in its entirety. That is, the case of disabled organisations, where we have the latest proposal for this year's budget, the funding of disabled organisations from the budget, where it is stated that only 52% of these funds are directed directly to the programmes and everything else for the operations, for the salaries of those who lead them, for the various investments, for the kilometers and the like. And, of course, given that they are suffering at last, not only taxpayers, but also those who are supposed to be earmarked for them, then we ask ourselves whether it would be possible to use funds a little more cost-effectively in this earthquake recovery - not only on the part of the borrowers, but also on the resources of the budget. As a result, a number of measures should, of course, be taken. We have proposed some conclusions, among which are the most important two; that we should immediately freeze the payment of the Easter earthquake obligations to all those with re-injured facilities. For the first time because these facilities had already been repaired under the leadership of a country that had strictly controlled these matters and, of course, the supervisor was guilty of poor rehabilitation, for those cities that had not been injected that had been paid for that poor reconstruction carried by the supervisor, that was the state, that was the state technical office. And, of course, because these people can't borrow new loans just a little bit under the burden of an old loan. That's impossible. That's impossible. They were played. And that's why the state has to fix this mistake. And, of course, the second conclusion is extremely important that the building prices used in the renovation should be comparable to market prices in the Republic of Slovenia. This is because the mistake of the previous earthquake does not happen again. These were those who had broken homes or damaged houses, had to accept contracts and accept contractors designated by the office, and of course had no impact on finding a better provider. That's why the prices were the way they were. In the case of projects, it is three times larger and, in other cases, twice or twice the size of the market. When we wanted these and similar things to be adopted in a timely manner, the answer was that it was not really necessary for all of these things to be managed without changes in laws and so on. That these initiatives, which are welcome and will only be addressed by the Ministry by means of sub-legislative acts and with all the mechanisms it has at its disposal. Well, and then, of course, when we wanted the law to be reformed quickly, we failed because it was such an explanation by government parties. Today, however, we have received a report from the Infrastructure Committee, where the legislative and legal service says that these improvements in the functioning itself and in the hiring of credits and the relationship and the provision of prices cannot be ensured without adequate legal basis. Therefore, it is no longer possible to adopt and implement these proposals without legal changes. Of course, it is with great regret that the Committee of these conclusions, which we have proposed, I have only mentioned two basic conclusions, has not supported. So the inefficiency of this government will continue for as long as this government lasts. I would, however, like to establish a control system throughout the state system, as a quality control system is in place in health care, as the system of quality control and effectiveness of all actors is very well in place in the economy, so also in the use of taxation funds, the system of efficiency control should be in place. Mr Kopač says that in the 1998 earthquake recovery the system was excellent, the control system was excellent, I say that this excellence, of course, imposes a great burden on the minister, but of course it does not tell us otherwise than the Minister does not know what an effective system of efficiency control is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u23	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your word. I'll be as short as we have the time announced. We agreed that the government would prepare this thorough report on the procedure for the rehabilitation of these facilities after the 1998 earthquake, the Easter earthquake in Suča, and we now have it, although it was then required that it be earlier and that we could do this within the pre-election period, which we think was then a little different. The report, in our view, is well prepared when we have examined it, equipped with data and accepted as such. We are of the opinion that, while the proposals made by the proposed group could fix the situation in this rehabilitation and in the elimination of those states of individuals, especially the inhabitants there in Posoča, we have also examined and looked closely at the position or opinion of the legislative and legal service, which sees what goes together with the law, what goes wrong, and we cannot defend what goes wrong with the law. The new government may come with changes to the law and even fix these things, but the practice of working as a master, even so is life when something happens and, as we have written down, is not well written enough and we will fix it later. We support the decision of the Infrastructure Committee, as it is written, and we accept the government report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! It seems to us that we are destined to keep talking about the earthquake and reconstruction in Posoča. That is the case, and if something cannot be changed, it must be taken as a constant, and then it must be saved permanently. Since I was elected from the people, I'd like to say something first about the people in Posač. During the 1990s, the Societies experienced the very bad things - the first world war and even during the first world earthquake, which unfortunately I have no data on. [[in 1917]] . Then it was catastrophic snow in 1952, an earthquake in 1976, 1998 and 2004, and in between a severe wind and a tidal stream that carried houses under Mangart in Logo and were also human victims. These were, you could say, accidents that we couldn't really oppose in any way, because they were happening beyond our capabilities. It should be said that after World War I under the Kingdom of Italy and only after 1945 was it divided into Zone A and B, which was later amended by a temporary border and joined Slovenia or then Yugoslavia on 15 September 1947. There are some other things that need to be said about this, but they did not have the character of a natural disaster. We planned a Boko dam to sink a part of the upper valley, all of Czessoča should be at least 25 meters underwater. Today, do some, especially experts, imagine that we have experienced three earthquakes recently, and what would happen to such anger as a few million cubic feet of water? Only in 1975 did we establish and establish a permanent border between Italy and then Yugoslavia, or now, because we are heirs to the OAS, with Slovenia. Because there was a political solution waiting for us, these places almost 30 years after the war had no development; no one wanted to invest because they had no idea what would happen to us. And the consequences of all of this were that people were mentally and financially exhausted. In three municipalities, Bovec, Kobarid and Tolmin went on 1 September to the first grade of the Primary School 152 children, in 16 primary schools, of which 8 primary schools were less than 5 children. What a development that will be! In fact, on 359 pages of the Government's interpretation, everything that has happened in the government in the last four years has been presented, and nothing has been written about the earthquake, which I also criticised in July. Now we have 143 pages, on which is the report on the earthquake restoration of buildings and also on development in Soča, of course with the state of 31 August 2004. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the Ministry of Environment and Space will explore the mistakes that have occurred in Posač in the area of reconstruction and, of course, also find possible culprits. I have already announced and said it myself in July, as I do today, if we are building on the sea, we do not know what is deep inside. And the earthquake in the soft terrain has a bigger effect than the rock. I must say for myself that we are sorry and regret that there is little explanation for what has not been done in this group. Let's say that some facilities haven't been repaired in six years, or that they're only owners, why the National Assembly doesn't discuss it, but maybe somewhere in the legislation that we're adopting in this Chamber, there's something we can do to make it right. About the infrastructure. Why wasn't the road in the village of Chadrg restored for six years? The first Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Gantar, was asked at the hearing in 1998 if he knew where Chadrg was. Unfortunately, nobody seems to know because the road hasn't been repaired for six years. The question is also about the restoration of livestock pasture mountains. Why are the wishes of the owners no longer taken into account? The owners should restore as much as they need, not according to the plans of the best architects, statisticians and builders for great works. Too often and even today I have heard of the ugly reconstruction of Breginj. I want to see how it would be in Breginj, if I had been injected in 1976, they were connected around - three after three, four houses were built together - they would have been demolished today, if not in 1998. However, since the montage houses were built in New Breginj, they survived two earthquakes, and I have never heard anyone complain that his house broke or that the wood left him. Neither are the old ones, because those who remained were put on the ground and remained as they were. What's a "bow house"? We talk too much about architecture, not about someone living in this house. And someone who, within six years of moving in, reshuffles his house within a month, how and what he thinks about us and the legislation we adopt. I would also like to say something that I said in July; why don't they hit the house in Japan and California, and that our statisticians and builders go to Japan or find plans and make a house like this that can handle it. The claims that the seventh-degree earthquake will bring everything down are unacceptable to me, for us in the parliamentary group; let us make this one-time and not that it will have to be constantly rectified. I would also like to write a lot of talk about what we actually did in the request for renewal of the report on the earthquake recovery in Soča, I will only read the conclusions because it is right that those who follow us will read our magnetograms as well as the journalists and those who listen to us will know. We have proposed: the first decision, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately examine and take appropriate measures to ensure: A - the equality of all affected and equal starting points and the right to State aid; B - decommissioning the liabilities affected by the 1998 earthquake by writing down all the debt incurred at the time of the moratorium and reducing the credit obligation by 1/3; C - immediate freezing of the payment of Easter earthquake obligations to all those with re-injured facilities; D - construction prices for renovations comparable to market prices in the Republic of Slovenia; E - professionally appropriate renovation to ensure safe and quality stay in renovated facilities; and F - effective development measures. I must say that the Ministry of Environment and Space is, after its report to the rapporteur, no. The 5th page responded to these proposed conclusions. We can't agree with them the most, because we think there's more to be done. In its opinion of 6.10.2004, the Legislative and Legal Service also wrote, quote, in the second paragraph: "The specific objectives should be examined in terms of the solutions adopted by the amendment of the law cited in July this year. [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 86/04]] . From this point of view, it is recalled that the proposed objectives could not be ensured simply by government measures without adequate legal basis." And I will read the part that is still important to many borrowers in the earthquake recovery. Ad B - the proposed discharge of the obligations affected by the 1998 earthquake by writing down all debts incurred during the moratorium and reducing the credit obligation by 1/3 will have to be considered in the light of the provisions of Article 25, paragraphs 6 and 15. Subject to the provision of Article 25, paragraph 6, which provides for the first annuity to repay the loan [[granted to the beneficiary by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is closed]] it is due two years after the granting of the loan, it is not clear what debt it owed to the debtors at the time of the moratorium, in particular taking into account the provisions of Article 25, paragraph 3, of the earthquake recovery law and the CFP facility, by which the funds for the capitalisation of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia referred to in Article 10 of the cited law are also allocated to the financing of interest on favourable loans of private law." End of quote. When we adopted the amendment of the law in July, we also discussed this and agreed that the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as finance, would review what these credits could do. What's happened so far, I can say it myself. After accepting the loan, under the contract, one year interest, i.e. TOM, was added to the principal for one year. And the second year was calculated the interest on the first part of the capital plus the corresponding TOM with the new TOM, which was added to the capital. And in this way, the liability of the borrower has increased strongly. We made a mistake because we shouldn't have done it to give moratoriums for two years. Whoever started paying off immediately paid off a substantially smaller portion of the loan. I myself proposed in 2000 that we change this law, unfortunately because of some problems in Bovsk it was not heard. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group proposes that the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy should propose amendments to the Earthquake Restoration Act to the Soot and Development Act as soon as possible. In doing so, I would like to say something else that is quite a bit of a talk, but also the press is asking. When we proposed or requested a reference in early September to deal with the report on the earthquake recovery in Posoča, we thought that this would accelerate the adoption of the law a little faster. If, in 1998, we had overlooked and done stupid things in the financial structure of paying for the moratorium, we should eliminate it as soon as possible. In my opinion, back in the year 2000. We didn't do that in July 2004. We want and propose that the earthquake recovery take place as planned. The Ministry of the Environment and Space will find the culprits if anything is wrong. But in financial matters, that someone can't build because it came from a few members of the agrarian community of 650 owners all over the world, and no one can get signatures so they can rebuild barns, then, you know, it's our fault, it's not those owners' fault. And I hope and wish for the future that the Ministry of Environment and Space will adopt and propose such a law that at least a few of these things that I have counted will be saved. Otherwise, eight years from now, or our successors will discuss where we will get people to live in Posač. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleague and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Mr. Minister Kopač, I was very happy to have stopped in the lobby when you said earlier that there was no great interest. Well, there was a national party in Slovenia, and I also talked to the representatives of the state technical office and listened - I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - also the other side. In the Slovenian National Party they basically warned me - I speak for her, of course - that there is no good at all and it is wrong to speak at a political level because, last but not least, it is about saving people, their existence, their safe stay in Posoča. Nature is always - and will always - defeat man, even though his scientific and developmental level is still so high, but it also comes with the work of man. Nicely or not, in the Slovenian National Party, we stress that we have all made a mistake together as a legislative body, as we can see - a mistake in the adoption of legislation. I also support this claim by drawing attention to the legislative and legal service which, in its opinion, warns us. It doesn't matter whether we speak at this extraordinary session today three days or four days after the election or two months ago. However, I am sure that the content we are talking about will still need complete reconstruction and our work in the coming month or this year. In his speech, the Minister said that the desire and desire for state aid to be maximised. Finally, the country is also an integral part of us, one of the branches of government, and I believe that many among us want to achieve this goal. The question is whether state aid has been used to the maximum extent possible. I guess not. I am speaking on the basis of evidence, arguments, documents transmitted for the convening of today's extraordinary meeting. It is surprising, however, that when I spoke with my colleagues at the state technical office, there are many documents on the construction, professional and even state level, there is documentation. And Slovenia is a rule of law country and Slovenia has competent institutions that are responsible for monitoring everything that has been going on in Soča with one goal: that it is happening in a quality, fast and fair manner. Obviously none of these three elements were reached at the maximum level. In the construction itself, there are many supervisory authorities and, as far as I can see from the local level, such a supervisory authority receives very much money for the quality of its work. I wonder if these supervisory authorities would care if they were given a small lookout and it was found that their work was either fair or unfair, or whether they did not even see or know what was going on there? Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian National Party we know that it is not only the state resources that have helped develop the Soča. Among these are people who have paid the rent - all workers, all employees; there are also donations among these sources. I'm just curious, and I haven't, or I've questioned the question whether or not someone will have control over the donations, where the donations went, how the funds were used. In the Slovenian National Party, despite the most objective assessment of events and events, we are looking again at one goal: to get the Slovenes and Slovenes living in such an affected area as the previous speaker has so beautifully outlined for us a safe roof over their heads. And once again the new question opens: "Was the restoration made so that the house will not collapse and that man may flee from it, or were the houses restored to insist that they will be strong and give people a chance of safe survival even if it comes to - but I find it difficult to say this because I have not experienced it and that those who have experienced it will forgive me - small cracks, or are these cracks great, or do the houses fall again? All the evidence, regardless of political options, is that in many cases the latest reconstruction was poor. There's evidence. Many of us probably have the right to say that, in their opinion, I am talking about 3 billion and 800 thousand dollars, too much money spent on bureaucracy, because this is the money that, according to the data we have, the state technical office is supposed to have spent, or specifically in this case, on bureaucracy. Of course, we don't know who's in the back of those I mentioned earlier. Very questionable or interesting is obvious, here I am not defending anyone, but developing the thesis, the state technical office imposed too much pressure on some performers who were slightly or much more expensive than others. On the other hand, we wonder if it might be that, if ever, we do not have enough data, too many performers. Or it is just what wipes out all the inquality work today, the effects of which are suffered only by the inhabitants of Posoč. We never know what's right. Perhaps it would be fair to have one or two performers who would have the lowest possible rating anyone who works on the market could have and could say today it's their fault. When I spoke to my colleagues at the state technical office, my colleagues and colleagues, they told me that the sequence of finding the guilt is not as clear and clear as we imagine, unless they were lying to me. Obviously, those who claim that the people for whom they judge - not all, some - have done bad work in renovating, are likely to be able to clearly prove it, are still there today. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that personal responsibility is needed if we have come so far as to discuss the tragedy at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[The microphone's off.]] [[...]] I would like to draw attention to the conclusions proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this decision is written in one point with six sub-directions. In the Slovenian National Party, we will insist and demand that each sub-point be voted on separately, not in the package. In the Slovenian National Party, we refer in particular to points A and C of the opinion referred to by the legislative and legal service, which we must absolutely respect, and not least in the opinion under point C of the opinion, the point referred to by the previous interlocutor from the Slovenian Democratic Party as an important proposal, is the immediate freeze on the payment of the Easter earthquake obligations to all who have re-injured objects. Even if we support and accept this point, we must not - and I warn all of us that we will not move to the next meeting, that the legislative and legal service has not warned us that this point can be achieved only by amending legislation. What is the process of amending legislation, and we all know. So that we will not make excuses in two months or three when we talk about giving a new legislative procedure that will last again a year or two, then the Slovenian National Party does not want to be involved, because of the long-term process of amending the legislation required by the sub-point, we will be guilty of this amendment of legislation and the implementation of this sub-point only in two years' time! This is a very well-intentioned warning and a very concrete warning from the Slovenian National Party to all of us who need to be aware and respect each other and immediately approach the amendment of the legislation. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we demand to make a decision on each sub-point under the decision individually and we will also define each one. Finally, let me also point out that there will be no confusion or insinuation that point A will not be supported by the Slovenian National Party. This is a proposal on the equality of all affected and equal starting points and state aid rights, where it is clear to all of us that those who have holiday homes or weekends are meant, if you want, and we will explain why not. Because we are assessing that the vital importance of the resources that this country has from the resources that those who live there have been proven to have been unable to help everyone to the best of quality. The first is the Slovenians who live there, who work there, who create there. In the second phase, we do not object to the fact that all those who are there are involved, but the key problem is to save the people who live there, so that they will live with dignity, so that they will not be afraid of the possibility of a new Christmas in 2004, 2005 or 2006, who will not be able to move anywhere. This is why points A will not be supported by the Slovenian National Party. Once again, dear fellows and colleagues! It is right that we are aware of the importance of today's extraordinary meeting, and it is right that we are aware of the warnings from the legislative and legal services that we will achieve change and quality by amending legislation. And instead, I propose that we now criticize one and the other for the facts that are known, we propose that the competent judicial branches of the authorities make an immediate and immediate review of the business and work. I am talking about all sources of resources, not just state resources, find and find culprits with names and surnames, this is today soon enough - and let them also sanction, punish, if you want, for their wrongdoing or bad work or superficial work. And secondly: let's step forward and help the people in Posoč to the best of our ability, not to help build a house so that it will have five minutes to escape it and it will fall again, but so much so that any earthquake will be able to survive at least those cold nights if it happens in the winter. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Barovich! The debate has shown that you are in the work, in error, when you think we will vote on individual points from A to F. We will not, because the group of Members and Members proposes only a single decision. So much for thinking. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. No, no. You weren't. I just explained to you that if you want point A not to be accepted, make an amendment. Your experts will help you. So much for your behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u30	I wasn't wrong. We've suggested that this is how it's done. If you can't, you can't, and our decision will be what it will be. That was a suggestion, not a mistake. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u31	I call on the Minister for Environment and Space. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I take the opportunity to spend some of our time answering some of the statements made in these previous speeches that were simply not true. I'm sorry that the debaters aren't here, but let's just say that it's for those of you who are here. Several debaters, most notably Mr Sok, spoke of the fact that the findings of the state technical report were written. That's not true. This report by the government contains the findings of the construction agency. Once again, after the earthquake this year, we ordered expertise, i.e. an examination or analysis of individual facilities. The State Technical Office made its own selection of 30 objects, where it felt that the injuries were worse, and the facility had already been repaired since 1998, and went to find out for itself what might be wrong there. Then we applied for independent supervision of two institutions, the construction agency and two judicial experts, which I engaged with the mayor of the municipality of Bovec, so this was a joint analysis. The construction office and these two judicial experts have clearly found that the problem is in four of the 30 buildings. In short, the construction agency took 10, according to their opinion, suitable for review, and the court carried out 15 suitable for inspection, where at first sight they thought there might be something wrong. In short, the four objects mentioned here are not objects for which the state technical office would precisely determine or go to determine what was wrong because it was not even its task. You all expected independent supervision from us, so we said that the state technical office has nothing to control it, we choose external contractors or external supervisors, and the result is this: the four objects are clearly flawed. But these are four objects and nothing more - from 1.444. So don't say it's something we can generalize. Another false claim in these discussions was that the earthquake this year was less severe than the earthquake in 1998. Once again, this earthquake was significantly stronger in the area of Chezsoče and the works of Bovec than the 1998 earthquake, significantly stronger than the 1976 earthquake in Breginj. Although this earthquake had a smaller rate on the Richter scale, it should be borne in mind that it was at a second depth, such as the 1998 earthquake, and it should be borne in mind that it had a different wave affecting the ground, as Mr Christmas had said very rightly. And I'll just give you a comparison. If a house happens to be above a karst cave, the micro-effect of the earthquake, for example, after the third stage of the Richter scale there is tripled due to this micro-locational specialty. If the houses in Chesovo are generally placed on a different solder, but below this solder is a layer of river application, i.e. clay, the microlocational effect of this earthquake is significantly stronger than the level of the earthquake. This is why the earthquake, according to which the repaired buildings responded perfectly, is well repaired. Someone mentioned that the construction agency had proposed separate controls from the state technical office in its report. That's not true at all. The Construction Office has proposed an additional revision of the projects once they have been created, and this will, of course, be something that we will take into account in the new earthquake recovery. Someone said, I think Mr Sok, it is not fair that the insurance is deducted from the amount of State aid received. I have already explained on the Infrastructure Committee that the law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters encourages insurance in both agricultural and elementary accidents - hail, drought, etc. As well as in the event of an earthquake and the State aid allocation, they are greater in the event that someone has insured himself. This was a solution decided by Parliament, in theory the second would be to subsidise the insurance premium, even that would be possible, but we have a solution that I do not think is bad at all to promote insurance. If this had not been done and some of the proposals in the debate had been taken into account, so that the state should pay everything, then of course insurance is not necessary at all and the state is liable for the basic accident, this is, in my opinion, total stupidity, stupidity, which, of course, can cost the country so much to go bankrupt, then it will be 100% indemnity responsible for any of the basic unfortunate things that will happen. Elementary accidents, however, are something that the country cannot, of course, influence, and therefore is not liable for compensation. However, you have mentioned that only those who are wealthy are insured and that in a way that is encouraged, as provided for in the law, only those who are wealthy are actually helped. Of course that's not true at all. Anyone who is not insured, but who is income weak or falls into a particular social category, has the right to 100% state aid, not only up to 60% of those who have had the building secured, but up to 100%. Thus, this social correction in the System Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, and in this novel, I think, and in the Earthquake Law on the Succeeding is fully resolved. Several discussions touched on the concept of reconstruction in 1998 compared to Breginj. Those of you who were Members at the time, I was, too, probably remember that we all demanded from the then government that we prepare such a concept of reconstruction, which will preserve as much as possible the building area and in fact it was prescribed, there was not everywhere, let us say in the village of Mala Vasa in Bovec, we also have assembly houses built after the 1998 earthquake, wherever it was old buildings, because in Mali the village is mainly new, newer after II. World War II; wherever it was old buildings, it could be said that it was very strong to encourage either the restoration of old houses or the construction of new ones in identical slums, as they were old, to preserve the building’s heritage. This concept of earthquake recovery was similar to that of Furlania - the Julian landscape after the 1976 earthquake, only that it was carried out in six years or in houses a little earlier, but in Furlania-Julia the landscape was in a much longer period of time. It is true, however, that the whole village, mainly the Slovenian village, was emptied there, moved to emergency shelters in the valley. People then mainly emigrated, and those villages today are no longer Slovenian, but were picked up by weekenders. The well-renovated buildings were picked up by weekenders who, of course, were not Slovenians. We had another concept of reconstruction in 1998, and this concept was to make back beautiful houses or houses that preserve building heritage, and to make them, of course, as soon as possible and to make them for the locals. Mr Tsukati was very unfairly comparing the costs of the state technical office with the amount of damage found in the previous earthquake. I don't know how many people, including the mayor of Bov repeatedly, were upset about how the damage was under-estimated, but how much more the cost of recovery was actually. Let me just give you a comparison. The house where someone lived is a hundred years old, and someone in it was perfectly normal, and theoretically, in the earthquake, they have nothing. There's no harm done. It's an insurance policy, there's no harm. Of course, for the man who was in there, the damage is unknowingly great because he lost his house. The cost of rehabilitating such a house; of course, it is the building of a new house. That's 35, 40 million tolars. Therefore, comparing the amount of damage found with the amount of recovery or the cost of recovery is something that means mixing apples and pears. And this was done by Mr Cuckati to show how expensive the state technical office was to find damage after the 1998 earthquake. On average, the cost of recovery of an earthquake recovery is about two and a half times higher than the cost of the damage found. That's our experience. You have suggested freezing payments to all who have damaged objects again, and you have presented this as one of the most important conclusions. This, of course, applies to the comments made by the law enforcement service. At the same time, I would like to reiterate what we wrote in the report. The Housing Fund has itself unilaterally declared a moratorium on the repayment of credit to all those, without exception, who have objects damaged to the extent that they are found unfit to stay. If someone is still using an object that has had some damage, there is no reason, of course, that the obligation to the housing fund would suddenly be declared a moratorium. Otherwise, this measure has been implemented unilaterally, without any law or anything within the limits which permit it, through the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund. You mentioned construction prices. Building prices are too high. I have to say that in a way a little bit appreciable, I will now say - I speak for the new government - that these prices are not, of course, too high. The builders say they're too low. That's why we're having trouble finding performers. And that's also why the earthquake recovery is taking place. And the new government will or should only be quick to examine the level of these construction prices, in view of the discussions I have heard now, to further reduce and, of course, after four years of its mandate, perhaps where it began its earthquake recovery. You mentioned that it was a bad system. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the control system was good again. We have, of course, identified individual errors in design or execution and are speaking frankly about them. It's not a problem. Once again, at 1444 facilities, it is illustrative to count that everything will go perfectly without mistakes. Anyone who's ever built a house knows there's been some kind of mistake. Of course, it is important that they are discovered in the opposite direction. However, as far as the legality of the use of funds is concerned, so far many of the inspections we have had, the Court of Auditors has had an extra review of the earthquake recovery, the budgetary inspection continues to hang behind our necks, then we have had individual complaints or individual cases where criminals have included themselves, all of them show that in no case has the earthquake recovery involved any illegality in the use of money. However, we had the case, or it is still open, where he has so far filed criminal proceedings to determine the illegality of the use of municipal funds of the municipality of Bovec. No such procedure has been opened by the State and it is therefore impossible or incorrect to read out any irregularities in the use of money. So much for the intro, and then I'll come back to the new untruths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u33	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u34	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Certainly, an elemental accident is one of those events that is not desirable and, of course, leave an extremely large impact on itself, whether it be an elemental accident or not. In Soča, the most experience is possible, as it appears, in Slovenia with an earthquake - 1976, 1998, 2004 and as colleague Bozič said, even during World War I it is expected to be present - but all of this points to the fact that we are obviously gaining the most experience in earthquakes in this area. We could add that, in these first moments of the elementary disaster, we are well placed to provide very quickly a roof over the affected families and to protect the affected facilities and that there is actually a review of these facilities, which can later be used to approach reconstruction. However, the fact is, as the minister said, that in Slovenia we decided on the most demanding way to rebuild. If we want to preserve the building heritage, this is certainly one of the most demanding ways and also certainly much more expensive than everyone else, and of course a lot more difficult for both the professionals who design it, as well as for the operators themselves and also for those who oversee the progress of such construction. The time you have at your disposal is extremely short. There is always talk and pressure, not least, to ensure and restore all facilities as soon as possible. Of course, in this time component, it is certainly often difficult to achieve an optimum project and also an optimal way of building, especially with the fact that usually no financial resources are provided for an individual facility and that many times it is adapted, especially to the means that you have at your disposal, to do what is necessary, to provide basic living conditions, and that, somehow, all the other procedures that are necessary to restore the home in a way that is possible before the earthquake or most of them even in a more pleasant way can continue. So the fact that we meet in Slovenia with the most challenging method of earthquake recovery is what we should probably talk about in Parliament and say, we go to the experience of Japan, where earthquakes are practically everyday and have very much experience and have also decided to build a completely different building, such as in Soča. In Slovenia, too, we will probably have to decide if not already in these buildings, which are now completed or to a large extent in construction, how to define new constructions, how to deal with the future earthquake, if it can happen. Probably, if we want to follow Japan, as mentioned, this is certainly not a classic construction, it is not the preservation of the building heritage, but it is a completely different principle. Whether we are able to agree and talk about this is certainly also a place in Parliament, but before this extensive discussion of the profession and, of course, confirmation is possible at the final stage of this house as well. But it is probably very difficult to accept the fundamental changes and thinking that we are in today's presence in all the time pressures that the government and Parliament are in when it adopts these laws. That is why, at this stage, it is important that the reconstruction process has gone through the control of the country, that today we can talk about that all the procedures have been carried out so that we can identify the shortcomings and also the causes of these shortcomings and that we can resolve all of these tomorrow. However, I stress that if we are able to ensure that each individual closes the financial structure, then we will be satisfied. How this will happen is probably a question to which the next government will have to answer, and I hope that, if good, of course, the new Parliament will also be supported by a majority. Today, however, we all know that it was not possible for financial resources to make such a comprehensive recovery in order to provide funds for everyone from public funds at the moment. Maybe it'll be tomorrow. Let's wait for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I come from an area that has experienced a lot of natural disasters in recent or past years, except for the earthquake, and I can say that people's expectations in these environments have been slightly different, as I have been following in recent years, even during the pre-election campaign and so on, different than here, where I think expectations are exaggerated, that warnings and promises have been exaggerated by some colleagues and that the story that is taking place is now happening. But it is happening in the way that today's distribution is completely meaningless, and the time that we are going to spend here is likely to be very little used up. I do not hope to say that it is entirely unnecessary, but perhaps there is a suggestion that the next sanators of the area of the Court will benefit in any way, but when I listen to the Minister to try to answer someone, we have an empty hall - before we were only nine Members in the Chamber - when he tried to explain nonsense, instigation, non-reality. And from this I conclude that this debate is useless, at least useless. Here anything much to defend the current rehabilitation, which I think has not been so bad, completely satisfactory and will never be successful. Or the evidence that is inappropriate is useless to me, and that is why I do not intend to discuss it more broadly, and it would be the wisest thing to conclude this debate as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! On the table, I have a report, an analysis of the condition of the buildings after the earthquake on 12.07. commissioned by the Ministry of Environment and Space, responsible holder, Professor Miha Tomaževič and, of course, other authors of the Slovenian Institute of Construction. I wonder why not all Members of Parliament have received this report. I don't know how she broke into my office. In fact, from this material from the Slovenian Construction Office there are completely different data than from the government report. In conclusion, the government report concludes that the four buildings where recovery errors have been identified will have cashed out the project and execution guarantees, which is not true. However, I heard that when this report was made by the Slovenian Construction Office, it was banned from distributing it at the Ministry and that they somehow demanded that this report be corrected. Of course, I am procedurally demanding that this report be received by all Members and Members from the Minister, because of course he also has it. Why? I will, of course, be very specific. It's an analysis of the state of ten objects. Of the ten buildings, it is written in the conclusion for nine facilities that they were neither accounted for nor done in accordance with the situation. In short, it was a computer and it was distributed as someone had to and knew. Only one object is compatible with the project. Does this mean, colleagues and colleagues, that at 90 percent of the rehabilitation of Posača, things went completely domestic? The conclusion of this, namely the government - what the government has given, what Minister Kopač was talking about - reads as follows: "In principle, appropriate consolidation measures have been envisaged, which have also been carried out mainly professionally." In short, it says that it was mostly professional. In this report, see, this report was not written by policy, so this report was written by the profession, ordered by the policy. Politics orders professions to have arguments in their defence. But there is no right for any policy to change the professional report. It's called political corruption. And that's obviously what happened. Because this analysis under D - Summary and Conclusion states: "The analysis of the works performed at the sites examined shows that the consolidation measures have been overly inadequate or have been carried out by poorly qualified operators under insufficient strict supervision." The conclusion reads as follows: "The deficiencies identified show that the established quality assurance system in the case of the objects analysed did not work consistently and effectively." It is entirely contrary to the expert report with the political report. And for once, I would expect Mr Kopač to use his expertise to argue his decisions, not to mislead and, of course, to misrepresent, as he did, unfortunately, the whole mandate. Well, and I'll be very specific. Let's go to object one. Mr. Secretary, you know this report? B1 object, K1, Chassocha 94, dairy. And I hope that you have, of course, read B1 - an assessment of the scope of the measures implemented. Colleagues and colleagues, listen to what it says. It's terrible, it's a disaster! No trace amounts were observed in the inspected base wall. The injected walls are contrary to the book, contrary to the book of calculation measurements, which shows that all the surrounding walls, basements and landings should be injected. With the opening of the construction at the sites examined, V 1 and V 2, it appeared that in those two sites examined in the draft of the prescribed book of calculations, the calculated anti-shock connections were not carried out. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, what did we do? We had a state tech office, we had a surveillance office, we had contractors. Please, where's your money? Where's your money? You'll have to answer for that. I will therefore propose to the National Assembly that this report be received by all Members and Members, and that the conclusion of the adoption of the conclusions will also be the decision covering this report. Ladies and gentlemen, what would happen if this report were dealt with before the elections, Mr. Minister? Prague would not reach Parliament, let alone what you are today! We wouldn't have reached the threshold. Look, I'm not talking politically about anything that Pukšič would have invented, about any demagogies, I'm reading reports - reports that you, Minister, ordered, I believe it's not for free. And, of course, the minister did not write this report, but I ask him why he did not put this report out, although the introduction said: "The purpose of the analysis was to determine the actual situation and the reasons for the injury during the earthquake on the most affected objects" and so on, that I will not read everything. So, Minister, you had good intentions, okay, you did, but why are you covering this up now? But here's your responsibility, and here's your responsibility, and you shouldn't have done it. You should give this report to Members and Members of Parliament, whatever it is, and then take measures, as far as possible in the technical direction of the Government, to propose complaints and so on. Mr Minister, now you have taken responsibility because you have covered it up, covered it up, and you have not given it to Members and Members of Parliament. Don't talk about that spy you made, it's nothing. That's the profession, that's politics! Mr. Tauzes, it was you who didn't leave it behind. Why did you deceive the minister? It was not right, indeed, that these reports did not go to the National Assembly. Members and Members of this National Assembly shall have the right and must know the truth about this. Citizens and citizens had a special tax for this Court. Where did you wash the money? Look, from that point on, he was laundering money to get his ass kicked off! And you'll have to answer that, Minister. I start with Report 1, I have all ten here, but if you want a report, I don't know, I'll take Report 5 so I don't read it all because I know you know too well. The assessment shall include the measures taken. No traces of mass were observed on the basis of the injection. The stone walls on the ground floor instead of the Z4 transparent wells did not contain the injection mass, which is likely due to the absence of gaps in this place before drilling, but it was calculated. Of course, that's the problem. Report 7. The foundation walls instead of the research excavation were not submerged, but simply obtinate from the outside. You know what this difference is, sub-betonating or obbetonating, it means only a ditch to dig, the concrete to pour in, but if it means sub-betonating, and if it means sub-breeding, it has to dig a meter or two meters at maximum length, sub-betonating. Then on the second segment etc. This is significantly different, but we charge of course subbetourning, not obbetonation, etc. [[..]] The only thing that, Minister, in this report, was an assessment of the extent of the measures taken for school, so everything here was OK. That's what the report says. 90%, colleagues and colleagues, of the funds were obviously sent for some other purpose. You shouldn't have done that. Mr. Mayor, did you forbid this report to be given to members of the National Assembly? He hasn't seen him yet, because he hasn't seen him, because this report was made now, if you don't know it, because I can tell you that too, and 12.7.2004 he wasn't Mr. Mayor, 12.7.2004, because you prevented the report from coming to the National Assembly. Of course, this is quite different from the LDS and others said that this is professional, that, the professional public wrote their own, that is true, as Mr Anderlič said, that the professional public did this and gave recognition that, the professional public had written the reports, but you did not put them into Parliament and politicized them. Although I expected this time, I was wrong again, but we will hear from the Minister what is truly honest and honest truth that was created in this regard, given the result and the fact that the elections have already ended, and this time you have not proved yourself as a Slovenian minister, as you swore, but a completely different one. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing, Vice-President, that this report be received by all Members and Members, and then, of course, I will also propose a decision to adopt this report as a report on the material provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u39	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Look, we ordered this report, and the final report you don't want to read is about four objects. And we have included these four facilities in the government report. The construction office, or two judicial experts, examined 15 buildings and found irregularities in two of these four. The construction agency found irregularities in the four, i.e. in the same ones in the report. The draft report, which he transmitted and you seem to have at your disposal, also contained a type of inaccuracies that were later corrected by a further review of the documentation. That is why, of course, I suggest, if you wish, that you call Dr Tomažević, who is the author of this report, and let him tell you what is finally a credible text. But I assure you that the text is finally authentic, which is also summarized in the government report. Of course, the summary of the construction report can be delivered to you at any time, this is a document that has been paid by public funds and to which Members of Parliament, of course, have the full right. Otherwise, once again, I stress, there is nothing but a finding of irregularities in these four objects. The main purpose of this report, which did not arise on 12 July, was an earthquake on 12 July, at least to read that the main purpose of this report was actually to say what would be good to take into account in the earthquake recovery in the future. And one of these conclusions of the report is that it would indicate compliance with the standard or regulation called Eurocode 8. Eurocode 8 did not apply at all in 1998; today it is valid in Europe, we are not yet in force, and the suggestion of the construction agency is that it is also transferred to our practice. Well, and based on the Eurocode 8 standard in 1998, when it was not yet in force, it is, of course, highly incorrect. It's about as if they said that, I don't know, that things have to be judged by today's legislation, or by today's regulations, that they should be so many, many years ago. I can't think of any such illustrative comparison right now. So it is dangerous to politicise or pursue politics, Mr Pukšič, with the professional arguments used in the draft report, which in fact eventually cleared up in the light of professional arguments. Of course, there is no fear on my part that the author of this report will tell you, or the whole Parliament publicly. But it's unfair for you to interpret what he meant. Of course, you can get a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Of course, such cynicism from you, Mr. Secretary, I didn't mean it at this point in time. You'll tell me what I am and what I haven't read. The Eurocode 8 is contained in this report. Of course, you write in your report that this has not yet worked and so on. It's where the authors write. You know, these are the doctors who know this is Eurocode 8. Mr. Minister, if you do not know, read that it is translated into Slovenian and could be used. It could be used, but that's not what I'm talking about. I was talking about something else, something else, Mr. Secretary, I asked you. I asked you why you kept the announcement or when Members and Members would see this report. These reports say 90% doesn't match the building book. Mr. Minister, that something was calculated and paid, which is not according to the building book, that it was forged. That's what he's talking about. That's why I asked you if you had any complaints. Of course you didn't, because you were talking about Eurocode 8 because you wanted to cheat just like you were always deceiving the Slovenian public. But it's not right, you can't do that, Minister. You can't, even if you're a minister, you don't have that right. From these reports, my dears, it is because in this work someone has been enriched in an unjust way, from these reports. However, I hope that the authors of these reports are correct and, of course, as they wrote, are behind them. You know, so many scientists and doctors who are signed and written under this report, I believe they haven't been wrong as many times as you have, of course, and you degrade them with your performance that they're incompetent, etc. No, Mr. Secretary. Incompetence and, of course, politics have proved to you and at your ministry when you prevented this report from going out. That's the problem. That's the problem. And the basic problem is that something was billed and charged that wasn't done. The taxpayers paid for it, and they'll pay for years and years. Poor people rented loans there to pay someone something that wasn't done. That's the problem, Minister. I don't know what it's called. If I say it was stealing, it'll be wrong again, but obviously it wasn't working out the way it was supposed to. It wasn't working in line with the projects. These reports also state that projects for one fig were worth making, that there were no calculations, that there was nothing. That's what it says. Yeah, that's right, that's right. Twice, three times, five times, how many times, say it! You'll have to answer that. That's why, of course, you were afraid of this treatment before the elections. That's right, and that's politics, what you've done. That's politics. But the people have already read you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u43	A replica of the replica, Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u44	Mr. Puksich, don't talk nonsense. The Construction Office did not review the building books on the initial draft report. When he got an insight into the building books, he partially changed the report. That's why we allowed you in the lobby today to see what access to documentation looks like. And of course everyone has an insight, an opportunity to look into the building book by Members, and everyone can look at what it says and what it doesn't say for these objects. It is undeniable, however, that the Institute of Construction, I stress once again, and we have written this in the report, found faults or accounting for undeclared works in four cases. That is true, in four cases something that has not been done has been accounted for, or in three cases something that has not been done has been accounted for. In one case, however, it was misdesigned. And these are mistakes that need to be sanctioned, not generalised. That's all I'd ask. Of course, because of me, I mean, we can call the construction agency and present this report. So that you don't interpret it, but that it will be interpreted by the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, we have exhausted everything in accordance with the rules of procedure of certain options regarding controversy. Yeah, yeah, but we've already done this round, the rules of procedure don't allow it anymore. Subsequent [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u46	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u47	Please. Here you go. We've exhausted the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. I'll be brief. Object number 4, Mr. Secretary said they weren't, so the construction agency didn't have any insight into the building books. Then it's what they wrote in there, so based on what, I don't know. The comparison in the proposal of the prescribed and in the book of calculations, the calculated quantities of the injected wall shows that the calculated quantities are greater than those prescribed. Mr Minister, what you said is not true and you did not tell the truth to the Slovenian public and Slovenian Members and Members. Mr. Minister, this is a worse breach of your duties. It's a worse violation and you can't afford it as a minister. You weren't telling the truth. You told me I generalized, I didn't, I read the reports, I didn't write myself one sentence, I didn't write one sentence, I just read the reports, and that's not enough. Yeah, well, then what's enough for you if that's not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, then Mr. Sinisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u50	Look, you're reading the draft report, the report is still under way, don't tell me what you're reading, because we ordered it, and we have a final report, and you obviously don't have it if you have it, but you don't want to read it. The final report identifies the institution for the construction of errors in four buildings. And don't ask me what they meant when they wrote that, ask them, but I'm not worried about dealing with them. Let the profession come and explain to you what was wrong with looking at these objects. They found faults in four objects.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u52	This time I will be brief because I will then respond to all the comments later, and some situations. But now all I'd have done is that they didn't have a B8 facility on the draft. They had at their disposal the following technical documentation: a decision on the approval of notified works, a proposal for the rehabilitation of the facility with a list of works of 12. 8. produced by the state technical office, the construction log, the book of calculations, the letter concerning the rehabilitation, the letter with and so on. That is why each object is given what documentation the Commission used in the draft, if that is the case. And I must say that I myself have seen this record recently, but it gives me optimism because I see that the profession can still be autonomous and independent. I expected that, of course, the results would not be the same and hold what is said here, of the ten objects only nine, I think only one of them had no irregularity, it says here very precisely, so we analyzed ten objects and not 1414, because some of the objects that are falling will still have to come. And then, of course, taking four objects out of this, that is 0.3%, is actually not worth commenting on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There's no Lord Christmas. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Every natural disaster means a great deal of money, we have heard at the outset from the proposer of this initiative to address this reconstruction issue in Posoč. Natural disasters are particularly traumatic for people who experience accidents. It also means a big blow for the country and a lot of responsibility for it. After all, those who lead and rehabilitate and rebuild are faced with great professional and organizational and other trials. But it can also mean the possibility of manipulation, because the proposal, we know, has been put in a well-known manner of headship before the elections, but it can also mean profit. And one criminal charge, perhaps more, is filed in this case. Mr Drobnič said today what the landscape architecture is intended for, or if, of course, I do not move to the problem that some people are exposing today, that is, whether the landscape architecture is designed to feed or to stay in it. Undoubtedly, the renewal must satisfy both conditions, both that the housing conditions are favourable and that the so-called conditions are, in the end, why not, also the national interest, which means respect for cultural heritage, remains. And in this case, the decision to maintain this respect for the landscape, the building heritage of this environment, which is also part of the national park in some areas, seems more than respectful to those who have decided to rebuild the Soča. Why don't you tear them down, objects, you put them in the first place. 51 Churches could then be demolished as many as were restored within the sacral monuments in this restoration. This means one billion or 44 million just for the restoration of certain sacral devices or the dissolving of certain parts. Or the 2 billion who went to individual constructions to have this environment then one, with the landscape image, a coordinated view. For the guidelines of local architects must be respected. After all, the whole country respects them, and everyone who builds must comply with the instructions laid down in the legislation, regulation and so forth in order to preserve a building heritage, whether in Posač or elsewhere. In Furlania, as has been said today, after the 1976 earthquake, they spent eight years rebuilding. But they only spent one year at the beginning to perform repairs on less demanding facilities, and then spent the next seven years, and even more, building and helping experts from Slovenia. Let me say that with the restoration of some of the facilities in Soča, we have also restored those objects that we did not actually know we had, discovered them within the cultural heritage, and we have also encountered elements that were previously hidden from the eyes and we can, fortunately, admire them today. Even those in public use, such as the library. After the earthquake, the buildings of cultural heritage, which were even recorded before the earthquake, received fresh images and new contents. Let me just mention the discovery of a black kitchen or buildings or homes that can now be repopulated. And I'm not talking about the Tolminski Raven cases or anything. But let me conclude with a vision that is most often expressed today and in fact why I think we are meeting here, of course, in a much less interested environment than possible 14 days ago. Non-economically used funds. Not only the inspections mentioned today by Minister Kopač, but also those which were not sufficiently highlighted in his speech, the two budgetary inspections reviewed the operation of the state technical office and to date made no comments. Perhaps these inspections, additionally, would detect any irregularities in the municipality, because we know that the Anti-Corruption Office was investigating the operation of the municipality - and that in 2001, it started then - which was supposed to favour a certain contractor in certain renovations. And we know that the criminal service was in the congregation in 2001 because it detected irregularities. At the time when the Mayor was today's Member, and also the signatory to this meeting, Mr Siniša. Transfers that are supposed to disappear in Nigeria. Perhaps we should talk about this today, and we are all so considerate or considerate of the government. Okay. This is a question that touches on the use and management of municipal money. But I'm sure these questions are in the process. No doubt we have no answers yet. And I understand that when a procedure is under way, it is difficult to prejudge certain conclusions. I hope that when these procedures are concluded, some of today's doubts will be overturned and Mr Puksic will also be given answers. As far as the conclusions you're making are concerned. The F Decision speaks of effective development measures, speaking of those measures which the State could take to ensure that this part of Slovenia, which has often been neglected, is also agreed by Yugoslavia and later by Slovenia in order to have more perspectives. Let me remind you that just before the end of our term of office or at the time of the consideration of the law on the proposal of our colleague, we have confirmed 12 billion additional funding for the development and repair of roads with the logic that is justified. Thus, if access to these sites is increased, its development will also be easier, including reconstruction, including the flow, including tourism and the economy. 12 billion and a half. We didn't announce it and hang it on the big bell; eventually, if we did, maybe there would be some other results. But what I mean is, those of you who proposed this decision, I assume you were aware that there was much in this area of development done not long ago. And this conclusion of 12 and a half billion to rebuild roads, I suppose, I do, I hope, and I know that the future government will respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u55	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]] Do you want to replicate as mayor? Here you go, Mr. Germovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u56	Well, I'm glad to have this opportunity to speak two words about this crime that's underwhelming. By stressing that I did not turn this esteemed assembly into a tribunal or, of course, I know that some would prefer to see that without judgment I would be condemned for something I did not do. So he explained something because the minister also suggested that there were irregularities in the congregation and not in the state technical office. Indeed, the investigation covered three investments in municipal infrastructure, which was financed by the State in the programme of the State Technical Office. It's a school in Soča, and it's a miracle that she's been through this technical assessment, about the burial wall in Trenta and about the depository of the building materials in Bovec. Well, what was my role? The head of the earthquake recovery report, my opponent, a member of the LDS, was the boss, the head of the earthquake recovery report and a direct associate with the state technical office, and he was in contact with the construction company that got the job and the contractor was confirmed by the state technical office. The state technical office also controlled the work done, and among the main indications that I abused the situation was that I did not control my subordinate further. Here we see that, in fact, building control, how weak it was for me as a mayor, although a historian, was expected to further control these exposed situations. And my entire accusation is that the claim came out that I knew the documents were faked. The forged documents have been in terms of signing, in terms of the exposed situation for unworked works and, of course, the whole procedure against me does not condemn me from the first moment that I took the tolar, but that my signature has enabled me to gain the property benefit of others. And of course, it's not true that the state technical office wasn't there. My analysis showed that she was still involved. And I also suggested that the investigation, after an analysis, when I found that at an investment for which no work had been done, had been granted resources under an elaborate from the DTP and signed by the Secretary of State and the Minister and I suggested to the investigating judge that he should investigate, because it was equivalent to my fault that I signed something that I did not know and that this process would show how much of it would be approved by the Minister, similarly because I signed for something that was not done. And I suggested to the investigating judge that I extend this investigation, even in my speech, and I hope, if they don't hear it, I'm just going to file it, because these are the obvious facts. So I'm gonna end this plea in the wrong place with the next one. I'm not suspected of taking anything, any tolar myself. It will certainly prove that I did not allow my enemy and a stranger to gain without me having any of it. In short, all these insinuations that something was going on in the congregation and that DTP didn't know about it. DTP approved all the projects. Her supervisors were on these projects and her supervisor told her on the defense that he had signed without being on the site because he trusted the head of the report. That's how it was done. And I think it is clear from this, from this report, that there were also investments, individual ones, where the congregation had nothing. In order to avoid misunderstandings, all individual constructions were in direct relation between an individual and a state technical office and the municipality had neither financial nor other business. At times, it helped to resolve some of the land’s woes, but it had nothing to do with the individual reconstruction project itself. So, in fact, I hope that the time will come when I will also ask some of them to apologize for such unequivocal and harsh insinuations, because in my case, it seems to me, in fact, was deliberately overlooked, we have not yet come to court. As long as you're not even in court - the lady's a lawyer - until they're legally convicted, you're supposed to be innocent. However, some would like this to be different, but this will otherwise be very unpleasant for many, but I don't think so for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Once again, I wanted to answer Mr Pukšič's allegations. In the meantime, I went to check again and it is undeniable that the construction agency has prepared a report taking into account comments of a technical or professional nature, and this report will now be brought to you as soon as possible from the Ministry and reproduced, so that there will be no doubt that we are hiding anything. Once again, the errors have been identified in four objects. One of them is the one mentioned by Mr Pukšič, this is the so-called dairy in Cezsoc, one is Soča 22, one is Kal Koritnica 54a and one is Like 55. These were short-circuited errors, mainly in implementation. In fact, there have been some things that have not been done in practice, and that is why, of course, we will also initiate appropriate procedures, as have been done in the case mentioned by Mr Germovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! The earthquake is a bad thing. We all agreed on it here. And it comes when we don't expect it. It's not our fault that the earth is cooling down and that the so-called tectonic plates are moving beneath us. And the Euro-Asian, large tectonic plate, the Adriatic plate, which is significantly smaller, simply dominated it, that it wanted to sink, so I'm going to, in such a jargon, that it's easier to understand, and where this is a junction, there's huge movement, as far as the human sense is concerned. Otherwise, it's a very gentle thing to look at globally. And now this turning point of these two plates is also going through the Sootje, the Idrija, and so on. The earthquake’s microlocation, as Mr Minister mentioned today, said that where rocks are, there are significantly worse earthquakes than in the clay field. If I understand what he just said, I'm denying that it's not true at all. Just the opposite. The objects on the clay surface are worse off because there are movements, waves and, of course, resonances that stop slowly and then leave the effects on the object itself. Well, now, of course, what he's hoping to do. Science has also made considerable progress, so we are dealing with these problems, of course, if there are also guaranteed funds for this. And if we're against it, then I wonder why those experts who were there, why they let certain things do superficially, indefinitely. That's what I said on the board. Because the minister said that some of the facilities weren't finished because they ran out of funds. The construction expert himself, even for seismology, should know these things even better; we should simply not do so if they know that the matter is not over. That's clear. And then the chimneys fall and so on because they're not made professionally. Pretend it couldn't be done. If it couldn't be done, we'd leave him alone, better than make him fall. They're technical possibilities for every thing, but they're also for one poor chimney. And that just doesn't work for me. If we're talking about a state technical office, I called it not DTP, but DDP, not technical, but bureaucratic. Because all those experts, according to the data I have at my disposal, have been dictated. Domestic experts could not come along, even if they wanted to and wanted to help, had no access, although they knew the local environment very well, where earthquakes occur where they live, they also know materials, they know the construction of old houses and so on. So all the parameters are more complete than those that worked on them, yet they didn't have a word. Then, at the technical office or the Ministry of the Environment and Space, they claimed that the money for the 1976 renovation had not been properly used, and as if we were going through the same system, it would be so much worse. That's not true. The buildings that were built in 1976 were quite fine, perhaps some percent were damaged, but they are much better made than they are now. Now let's see how much this all costs. According to the information, the total was about 21 billion. People of God, by comparison, this is 700 new houses of 30 million! The house can be made for 30 million under the 'key' system, it is said that the owner moves into the built house and does not need any administration, no documentation and so on, everything is made for him. However, if we allow the cooperation of owners and those who want to help, neighbors and so on, this could be reduced by 50%. So 1,400 houses could be new for this money! That's pure logic. As far as spending on a state technical office is concerned - 2 billion 200. That's 45 people four years with a million-dollar salary, that's all. If there was so much money to be saved, then something should be done, something useful, that people could live. There's another very important psychological factor. The man told me himself. He said, for three days, I was in a house that was restored for only three days, and there was a new earthquake. He says, "I thought we were all gonna lose our minds. I'd rather commit suicide." You know, this isn't a joke. And all such things simply cannot be done with a demagogic approach. Because you can do, I'd say, even more damage than good. And I don't know, I just can't chew it. That's what Pukšič was talking about, it's in the material, so I wouldn't repeat how it approached. That's all. Injecting. They admit it themselves, and it also says here that it was non-professionally performed. Because injecting, if the mass isn't directly on the stone, then it's the same as not being there. It is true that there may also be errors in the implementation of pre-voltage steels. If steel is not properly pre-tensioned, if there is no real concrete, then it is a risky thing to do if it is not done correctly. If it's done right, it's okay. It's modern technology. And save so much material and so on. It's worth a lot of money. But it has to be 100% and then we can't talk here, and yes, it wasn't all there. Well, there have been some mistakes, and there are design mistakes that I don't know about. Control. Surveillance is personally responsible for every single thing. Please. What the state will now pay, taxpayers, because control has received a well-paid job, and now this has come about. We can't move around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. Rudolf Moge gets the floor for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u62	Thank you very much. When I listen to all these debates, we are always through the brain, let no one blame it, always that Slovenian saying runs away "God give fools brains and money to us." I come from a region with the lowest unemployment rate, with a bunch of other problems. And it seems to me that we could talk more respectfully about how the State of the Republic of Slovenia has helped from the first moment to the present with enormous resources, billions of dollars, restore and help people to remain in this area and that they have been able to live better and experience these things again. I welcome all these efforts, and I also thank those of this city who have contributed in any way to this restored House, which is more unbecomingly beautiful than ever, at least what I remember, which I have been walking around these valleys quite a lot since that creation, and I was in 1958 for the first time. And it seems to me that these renewals are the basis for life to come back and that the country, with the resources it gives, will also attract a certain smile on people's faces. It must be said that not only this part of Slovenia, but also other parts of Slovenia, although they did not have an earthquake, need money bloodyly, but it was Haloze, Prekmurje, Koroška, etc., and the Members who will replace me in this Parliament, will have to solve the problem of equitable regional development once, even though we have not yet found a common language, it is to be a province or in what way to establish it. However, the fact that we are equal in the European Union has brought us to the point where we will have to solve this problem so that we do not throw resources away. But I would like to say, not just what the state has written here, that with a great deal of tolerance, or with a great deal of good will, it has restored these things and made a great deal of money. The funds also flowed into this area through other projects. If I mention only one, such as investments in education, only in this small piece, I can say that it was renewed with the participation of the State Soča Primary School in Bovec, Music School in Bovec, Primary School of Dobrovo in Brda, Primary School of Simon Gregorčič in Kobarid, Primary School of Struklja in Nova Gorica, Primary School of Muniha Most in Soča, Primary School of Podbrdo from Tolmin, Primary School of Grahova from Tolmin and beyond, and also kindergartens in Bovec, kindergarten in Desklah. For all of this, the country has given about a quarter of a billion additional tolls to build these investments. I say that it is right that the country has given, and it is right that the congregations in this area have contributed their shares and have made it possible for these people to live a more dignified life than they once were. I welcome all this stuff. There have also been certain errors in these matters, as I have read, and those responsible for them should be responsible for these mistakes. However, as far as we are concerned as legislators, it seems to me that we have received good enough will and with enough obedience to adopt legal acts and have adopted in the budget always such means that from any part of Slovenia we have come, with understanding we have always supported these things to be done well.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u63	Thanks for the note. We have to multiply one report, so I took a look. Thank you, Comrade Moge. Aloys Sok gets the floor for the debate. [[No, no, ……]] Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So much has already been said, and obviously we have found that there is a big gap between what is written in this political report and between nature, this is what is said in the actual state. There is a difference between the building book and the condition on the buildings. Surely, there is also a possible wrong approach. But the fact is, and this must be acknowledged that the country and we in Parliament were ready to help these people, but then, when it came to implementation, there was a break-up, the money went somewhere. Let's do it in a row. Wrong approach. This report states: As shown by transparent drilling, the execution of injections in the inspected facilities cannot be regarded as successful, then it is stated in some cases, I will not read everything, and further, we can conclude that the situation found is more due to non-professional performance than to the ability of the wall and again to justify some professional reports. It is also possible that the wall before injection was not wet and the mass was squeezed, but the existing mass absorbed water, etc. So it was an unprofessional approach. Next. Although they were foreseen in the documentation, in one case we did not find wall connections during the review, even in the book it was written down, it is said that again there was a gap between what was envisaged, between what was entered into the building book and what was done. That's what they say. The work was done. The money's gone out again. Now I'm going to the other part that seems particularly important to me. Of course, there has been too much administration in the whole matter, that is a fact, we also have the law so that it allows more administration and impossible work, etc. We've already received the report that this technical office has cost 3 billion dollars a while ago, but if we take the projects into account, 3.7 we'll stay at 3 billion. If we're counting on the worker who worked there or the employee who was in this office, 500 thousand wages, first this part and five years, then every day there should be 100 people there if he had a million wages and 50 people. Now, I ask you, because the report also states that on average there were always 31 people there, where the 20 people who would have had a million wages disappeared, or 69 people who would have half a million wages each day, who were working for them, or where else did 2 billion tolars disappear? Horrible storms in the wider area of Slovenian Konjice have caused damage to about SIT 2.3 billion. All of this could be settled, but this area of Slovenian Horses has not yet received, except from the Ministry of Defence 32 million, no other funds. It was a lot of promise, which is fine, we admit, but those funds will have to be cashed out. There are those funds in here that have disappeared somewhere else through strange channels. This damage could already have been removed immediately in the Slovenian Horses, but it was not and lost 2 billion in Posoča in this technical office. I don't care how we watch 100 people work there every day, but there were only 31 of them, or there were 31 of them, and there were 2 billion missing. It doesn't matter how we look, it's facts, and we can't get past these facts. On the other hand, we also found that the material and the work that was done were calculated at twice or three times the cost of the average price in Slovenia, the concrete was twice the cost, the projects were twice the cost, everything was twice the cost. In addition, it was not installed, but it was included in the building book. I know that the end of the Minister's duty is not to go to every facility to watch if they built it, but that's why the blacksmith has pliers. The blacksmith has pliers for it so he can take the hot iron. And the minister has his tools to find out. And if he's got such a report on the table, then we get another report on the table, which is a little more frizzy, a little more beautifully written, and here's the problem that the minister's going to have to deal with. I should have, because this report didn't come to his desk yesterday or his desk the day before yesterday, but it's been a while. And even here, the minister said he knew him well, that's what he said he should do. Where the two billion disappeared or where 70 people who were not in the technical office disappeared every day should have been and were paid. And that's the whole problem with this thing. The state has made a great deal of money, and that is true, and I agree with a colleague who spoke before me, but there is no effect. The effect is not because someone's trust that we, I don't know, have been given to him or those who have been authorized to do so have been paid, has been exploited by this trust, has been played by this trust. And that's the problem. And this other part of us is a lot and a lot of times, and in most cases it doesn't work. And the state gives money, and that's what it holds. We have also worked hard here, we have found this effort to give additional funds, but this money is 60%, two-thirds of this money is disappearing somewhere, it doesn't come to objects, it doesn't come to a specific object, it doesn't come to a specific area, it disappears somewhere, it doesn't have the effect that it should have, which of course it was intended to have. And I would, of course, like this question, where did this go, or 69 people every day or two billion in those five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u65	Thank you, Comrade Petan. Now it would be Stanislav Brenčič. France Tsukati, it is not, Janez Podobnik, Jaša Zląbec Lukič has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u66	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm disappointed that I expected Siniša Germovšek to say anything concrete, but he said nothing. So, after all the speech he's typed, all we've learned is that he's signed some things he shouldn't have signed, and he just broke it. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I mean, are you an idiot or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u67	Please stop making such a mistake. Because they left you, too, Mr. Petan, so you could talk. Here you go, Yasha Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u68	That's one thing, that's the mayor. The other thing is our merry Pukšič, who misunderstands every thing because he's too quick to even understand what it's all about. And in this way, we can't get to the bottom of anything. The digger can explain ten times, bring twenty documents, and this won't help Puksic. That is why it really makes no sense. We can't even talk here because if we wanted to talk about the facts, this second part would leave the hall immediately, because the fact doesn't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u69	Thank you. Joseph Jerovška is not here, so Blaž Kavčič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u70	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the country cannot prevent natural disasters, and the sea and must come into recovery of consequences, to some reasonable extent. To a reasonable extent, because any assistance given in such cases must have its source. And the real source of aid given on the basis of solidarity is the burden paid by other members of the community. This means that there is no aid without a source, so any aid must be reasonable. In addition, there are things that no state or no one else can undo - these are severe psychological consequences, losses. In the specific case of the Court, this is a terrible consequence of the threat to the home. [[The ad in the hall.]] Can you please calm down in the back?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u71	Please, Comrade Sok and colleague Skolcz! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is possible to look at this help from different angles, from the point of view, that nothing is good enough. For example, if the specific issue of insurance is nevertheless reasonably embedded through the principle of continuing to stimulate the realization of the protection of facilities against damage also caused by elementary accidents, it is, of course, very correctly carried out through the applicable law, but it is also possible to look at this in a way that nothing is good enough. Maybe the coming new authority will be able to do more in this area, maybe it will be able to give more than it will take on one side; maybe it will come up with a solution that could be called "perpetum mobile", which means what I said earlier - that it will give more than it will take. In doing so without any cynicism, we wish for the best. We'll all be happy if at least some of this works. However, when we look at the situation in Soča, we must not forget that the country has invested in Soča 5.7 billion tolars, i.e. 5.3 billion from the budget and 400 million from the grants. It is important, of course, what this State aid had to do with the consequences for the people to whom this aid is intended. Therefore, the consequences and functioning of this aid must, of course, also be seen subjectively, in a social way. The renewal was based on the earthquake recovery law, which ensured that all affected were subject to the same rules and with particular emphasis on individual treatment. Therefore, each specific situation has been examined in several respects. The social status of the family was taken into account, the material situation was examined, the extent of the damage and the extent of the assistance needed were assessed. Of course, individual individual treatment of each case requires time for each person and object, so it is a hard work, but it is only possible to perform qualitatively in the recovery of the consequences of the earthquake and to alleviate the consequences of such a shock as home loss. Well, a number of mechanisms have been put in place: in addition to state aid, there have been mortgages, which in fact mean a solution that binds the one who got this solution only for a period of ten years not to be sold, but this is specifically for cases where borrowers were not able to participate in the renovation of their facilities with loans from the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Then there were additional means of regulating the stay after static rehabilitation, comprehensive aid for cultural heritage, since there were actually no owners who would make definitive decisions about it and it is logical that they had to be assisted in doing so. Then also the means to further regulate the objects in the cod kernels, to edit facades and so on. Other mechanisms, infrastructure and development promotion have also been activated. Of course, in these matters it is very important what happens in space itself and what happens, what is the local initiative itself, whether all these mechanisms result in life starting to flow in a way that leads forward. Well, these options have been given the opportunity to finance the country, to create the Poso Development Centre - an institution that, through comprehensive treatment and knowledge of the situation, has made an important contribution to promoting development in these places and has made it possible for this centre to establish and operate. Therefore, allowing direct assistance, promoting initiatives through calls for proposals, participating in job conservation and promoting education are undoubtedly of paramount importance for the Council. I would like to mention tourism at the end. The tourism activity is of great importance for the Association; it has been in decline; we are pleased to note that initiatives are returning to the Association, both in the field of entrepreneurship and in larger companies. We can have the basis for optimism in these places, so I would also like to acknowledge the well-done work at the rehabilitation in Posoč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u73	Thank you, Comrade Blaž Kavčič. Franz Sušnik, Franz Čebulj, Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Bogomir Zamernik, Jure Malovre would have discussed it if they had been here. Joseph Scholch has his word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would say that this presence in the Chamber at this time shows that of the 24 signatories who wanted to discuss it, I haven't even seen some of them today, and at this point they are sitting here two. This would suggest that, despite everything else, there would not be so many big words about this and the complete ignorance of this topic, but not a serious concern for the restoration of the Soča. Despite the fact that the hall is empty, it seems necessary for me to say, perhaps at some point someone will read it to where there is an earthquake, things will change to the extent that they cannot really be rectified by any law. What's an illusion of the opposition is that if I didn't know what rules and what measures they had to take, then everything could be in order. Even if I don't, I'm going to say, earthquake recovery in Posoča, I can generally say that wherever there was an earthquake, things have changed irreversibly. They've really changed! There was also an opportunity to do so, and the consequences for such places were often very sad. If we went far back into history, that would be 100 percent. As far as these two are concerned, or if you want, we can also compare three earthquakes on the western edge of Slovenia, then I would hope to say that the main reaction is the wider community, the real state, was appropriate; both in 1998 and later. There has already been mention of a disputed law on landfall, but it has been an instrument of solidarity. And here were mentioned various instruments for development, and I consider them really important and valuable assistance to those places. I come from there myself, and I don't usually speak for these people. But since there are people who have been elected there who have not said a word of thanks for everything that has been done, I would only hope to say that I know a large number of people who see that much good has been done from this restoration. A lot of good stuff. I find it difficult to assess or deny the mistakes already identified in this internal control at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Apparently, they were and obviously were instruments to be discovered. However, it is not possible from that small percentage to a new one, or I will say from the damaged houses, to conclude what some colleagues here have said was completely catastrophic and distasteful. It's a fat lie, ugly and rude. Things have changed a lot. You'll see a lot of renovated houses, some new ones. The concept that went to try to preserve the maximum of that heritage fund that was, by making things better, was generally accepted. Someone could have been skeptical of him. I have to say about this auditorium that, for example, in the congregation of Bovec at the time, they tried to list houses that did not have the smallest element so that they could be houses of inheritance. Mr Germovšek will of course have an excuse for why this is so, but he has tried to declare practically all the damaged houses in Bovec as an inheritance, regardless of whether they were built, even in black and, say, in 1960. Just to get the money, of course. But that also means that this instrument, which the state added to it to stimulate the preservation of the old man, so that what happened to Bregin was acceptable, was used by all, and most of all by those who attack him today. That's, I'll say, the right thing to say here. I agree that we're attacking the minister and that he wasn't looking out for any things, how they were done, but then, of course, it's also true for the mayor. However, they will both be innocent until something can be proved to them in some proceedings. But I can't agree to this logic that the minister is guilty of apriori, but the mayor is innocent. The logic must apply to both, regardless of which party they are. And you're innocent to me so there won't be a fight. Even a respected colleague of Germovšek, who is doing well when it comes to commending someone, is very difficult in the language. To assess how much better it would be in Bovska, Kobariška and Tolminska, I would add one of my opinions. It could be better if local communities and their leadership were agile. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Mr. Pukšič, welcome to this hall, but please let me speak. [[...]] But if that bothers you so much, you can go where you've been practically all morning. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]] So what I was going to say is that those local communities that have conceived some projects have made more progress than others. In this sense, what happened in Tolmin is comparable in a positive way to what happened in Bovec. What I'm trying to say is, instead of the local community, the state can't do everything. We also receive different materials from the locals in Bovec. I do not know how accessible it is to all Members, from this so-called 'Bovine civil initiative', but also from a development society that is emerging. And this society not only calls for, and of course, civil initiative, not only calls on countries to do some more effective work, but also calls for local structures. So far known data shows that neither this society nor the nearest authority, called bovka, has responded. That's worrying. Nevertheless, they are people who can detect the problems we want to solve and are willing to solve them through different projects - those we know from that end - we have also solved. We cannot attribute this unwillingness to, say, state technical offices or the Ministry. There was an opportunity that was not realized because of the firm views, if we are now talking about the Bovec, because most of all about this, it was the municipal administration of Bovec. I remember myself the opportunity that was for Trent to put one of the centres of school activity there. The Ministry was willing to do this, and the Bov mayor wouldn't allow it at the time because he had made it up to me, I don't know what. Like buying up old Italian barracks. But why am I saying this? Because it is paradoxical that the municipality of Bov requests free of charge from the country those facilities that are owned by it. I don't know if critics are a little ashamed that they missed this opportunity, and these facilities are after ten years, this is an initiative from 1994, in a much worse state than they were then. The lack of readiness of the congregation is short - lived. If we want to help these people, then, as it's called, "get together", we need to be able to brag and learn how to encourage ourselves. I miss this very much by the initiators of this meeting. This year's instrument of donations could be significantly more successful if the Bovčans - and here again I think of the professionals in the congregation - took the phone into their hands, called around and said, listen, the law allows this and whether you are willing to give something. I don't know if anything like this would be done. I've called some companies myself, and they've agreed to do so in all companies. When I first informed or went to say this to the congregation; of course, there was no one there at first, but fine, this is a time of rest. Then it took more than a month for them to say - because the lists of beneficiaries, if I understand correctly, were working in local communities - potential donors, who is the one who is entitled to it. The apartment they obtained, offered practically four days after the earthquake, was not given to the congregation until the end of September. Who's to blame now? This instrument could be used significantly better if it was not only for politics but also for solving things. So it seems to me that it makes sense to talk about the need to do a lot of things for the House. But when we come up with conclusions, they have to be feasible. If my colleague Barovic has found that such conclusions are not feasible and it is not, I will say, always the most accurate in reading these documents, and he is always in good spirits when it comes to helping someone, then you know that something is wrong. I would also support those things that are related to the need for development. This decision seems necessary to me, but, as I said, it is necessary to connect and listen to different people, different institutions and different levels. Of course, you would expect if you wanted to take any development initiatives there to make these three local communities or, above all, this last one, because at least one of them has it, arrange these spatial documents so that someone can invest there at all; no one can do that instead. It's not all under the jurisdiction of the state, but it's also not a city to accuse ourselves, but it's a city to negotiate these things. I conclude with this: I am glad that after not knowing how many, after two months, my colleague Germovšek also found that the injection into development is not so small. Last time we talked about those tens, then eleven billion for the roads, he didn't think it was enough. Look, there's never been an injection like that at the end of the line before. To say that it's nothing to look forward to, but it seems irresponsible to me, because it's impossible for the National Assembly to convince me that then I don't know what else to invest in if such substantial amounts are minor to whom. For you, my fellow Members, I must say that the vast majority of people in Bovska and Kobariška do not think that this is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u75	Thank you, Comrade Joseph Scholch. You'll get a yes. I would have found earlier that none of the reported discussers were in the Chamber. I'm giving you a chance to replicate, Comrade Germovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My predecessor said a lot of things. Besides, he went back a lot, which is the last thing that's wrong. I would only explain that I was not the mayor at the time, but of course I was one of those involved and, at the end of the proposal, a very good, very determined proposal proposed by the then President of the National Assembly was accepted, but then disagreed with by certain services and therefore was not carried out. [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] No, no. [[...]] The late gentleman was the one who didn't want it. As far as these cultural heritage matters are concerned, it is the interpretation of my forerunner, so there is no point in losing words. It was, however, to allow facilities that were supposed to be cultural heritage to be additional funds to edit facades and because we did not get professional bases, the municipal council, not me personally, accepted the insurance of the entire settlement, because there was simply no basis for making selection. But the predecessor has a different opinion, so it doesn't make sense, I don't mean to convince him to do anything else, because the decision to declare is made by the congregation council and not by me personally, because it wasn't in my intervention. In short, in the end again for a different view. I think that the last time I did, and today I have no doubt that the development numbers are extremely welcome and I would certainly be patently ungrateful if I did not respect them. All I've talked about is that it often ends only on paper. I've been talking about the experiences they have in the developmental law of Zasavje, asbestos law and so on. It is said that, in fact, the matter is a welcome, excellent, all-respekt thing, but time will show whether the story will not prove as it is in many cases. Finally, in the former development law itself, the figures were then decimated and simply not then monitored in the state budget. As far as donations are concerned, the matter is much more complex and vague, and on what criteria this cannot really be answered by a living God. Who set the criteria, as I mentioned earlier, in terms of gambling, that someone gets everything and the other, of course, the question of how much. This is a story that I may take to the end as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Joseph Scholch, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u78	It's more about the others. I myself know Mr. Germowski's selective memory. The Institute for the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage in Gorica was prepared and the proposal first accepted by the municipal council was considered inappropriate in relation to the professional starting points. So it's not true that there weren't those criteria or those grades. You just didn't want to pay attention to them. As far as these so-called gambling is concerned, it must again be said that these lists were created, in my opinion, based on the people of the local community, the mayor's office and the social work centre, local. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I have heard from the State on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State or the Director of the Office, Mr Strmšnik. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow a few words for the completeness of the presentation of today's consideration of the development work of the Court. Indeed, the issue of earthquake recovery is at the same time, at least in the case of the Soča, a matter of regional development. For it is an area that is markedly lagging behind in development, and it must be defined as a special area, not only under this law, but also through regional indicators. The Act of 1998 already included funds to promote the development of the Court - then as credit funds, a combination of credit and grants through a public fund for regional development. In 1999 and 2000, 162 projects were granted 300 million loans and 329 million grants. Today, these loans, which have had a moratorium and are being repaid, have begun to repay recently, of course represent a burden; especially for those who have experienced the earthquake again. The government has responded here and has entrusted the public fund with recasting these credit agreements from case to case, taking into account the actual situation and the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the fact that these loans were carried with them by 25% of the grants. So the interest rate on these leased loans was profoundly, deeply negative. In 2001, we upgraded this system of development promotion, updated it, adapted Slovenia's entry into the European Union by amending the law. The Soča 2006 programme, a comprehensive programme of the Soča area, has been established, and this development programme is implemented within the framework of the programme for the development of the mountain statistical region. And here we actually have a good experience, because in Zasavje and Posač we have the only example of a comprehensive and organised, with known budgetary resources supported by a way of promoting coherent regional development. So, this is a pilot case for us, and in this sense, we also monitor and appreciate what was going on there. The development center was created. In the following years, 667 million Slovenian Tolars were invested in ATC Kanin-Bovec as one of the more important infrastructures in the area. By 2006, the programme had earmarked 2 billion funds for this area. Over the past three years, 357 million of this money has already been invested in the municipal arrangement of craft zones in all three municipalities, in the enterprise incubator in the municipality of Tolmin, the tourist and information centre in Bovec, i.e. in this necessary development infrastructure. Next, about that much money, 354 million SITs have been invested in entrepreneurial projects in these last three years, since this programme has been fully implemented. It is 27 major investments which announce that we will open 178 new jobs in the Soča, of which 39 new jobs have already been realized in the past year. Well, the third part of this programme refers to the development of human resources, where it would suggest that the scholarship should be highlighted in particular. In the last two years, 58 scholarships have been awarded to students from Posoča, of which 27 have been combined, where the grant is partly granted by the company. So these students will come back after school to Posoča and mean human resources for this area. Furthermore, promotion of employment of staff with at least the seventh level of education, i.e. higher forms of employment, 16 projects, 21 new jobs in the last two years. Training of staff in educational enterprises, again in 2003 and 2004 - 24 major training projects for personnel in educational enterprises. In the implementation of the Soča 2006 programme, we have also learned a lot, and this year's amendment of the law was an opportunity to renovate the approach or to upgrade this concept. The actual concentration of overpowering was found to be too low and funds were raised already in 2005 and 2006 for the implementation of this programme. Next, it has been found that by 2006 the development problem of the Court will not be overcome by a longer-term problem. The period of implementation of this programme was extended until 2013. From 2 billion to 4.4 billion Slovenian Tolars, we believe that these funds will have the expected impact in the coming years. Investments in road infrastructure, these 11 million tolars, have already been mentioned as an additive. In fact, this area needs to be opened by road, linked to other roads in the country and in Europe. Then. The law brought business damages, including the novelty of this year's law, and this business damage is now being calculated; the above-mentioned revision of credit conditions - this was accepted by the government itself for loans issued in 1999 and 2000 by the public fund. In addition to what has been mentioned here, the government is also involved in various other initiatives, for example, we are co-financed by the Peace Route Foundation in Soča, where it is a matter of exploiting the fact of great values or of these sights of the Soviet front connected to the Kobarid Museum and more. Well, there's a lot of work ahead of us. I don't want to say that everything was good at the development work. At least in our ministry or in the service of the government, we are trying to evaluate the achievements and upgrade them, so that your discussions, today's debates, benefit us, we thank them, and we hope for better times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u81	Thanks, mag. It's a steeple. The debaters who have been prepared are not in the Chamber, so I will conclude the debate of Members and Members, I will give the floor to the motioner, and we will go in a row. Mr Sinisha Germovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. Finally, there may be something that has been highlighted through the debate, but there is no basis in the arguments. It is useful to point out, in its own view, that the claim that it is only four objects and that it is to convert them to all the renovated facilities of 1998 and to obtain 0,3 mills of damaged objects is already denied only by the section report, only by the ZAG report. Of course, it is manoeuvring to create on some deceptions in some matters that are far from the truth, we will not change it with this debate today and, of course, it will continue to be summarised: only four objects and, in proportion to all the restored objects, this is negligible or, in fact, expected. One of the possible even unexpected outcomes and results of today's debate is that, to be honest, I was afraid that, in fact, the profession would try to soften some of the facts a little bit, and I am glad that the profession through this report retains its digitality and sovereignty and that is certainly a reason for optimism to move forward. For if then the fact that everyone at home is somewhat ironic, we know in the home, that the injection was a blessing of the thirst, that it was generally a failure, and if you see it, and you do not need to be a special expert, it can be ironized or rejected with cynicism. This is less possible if this is indicated in the report drawn up by the number of such eminent experts. And I think that this will be a good starting point for all those who will face the continuation of this reconstruction, by how to bring this restoration to an end, although the matter will certainly not be easy, not because people will not be caught up in it, but because it has been so driven back so far, and it will be very, very painful and very difficult to correct these things so that they will achieve certain goals. And it is correct to conclude that so far, huge funds have been invested and that not all means of happiness have gone to waste. And that also - what one of the predecessors said is that, in fact, in the Posač, some of the facts that came out of this reconstruction are very positive, very welcome, and that, in fact, if we create a feeling that we are so "terrier" attacking only weaknesses, and that we are therefore not grateful or we do not appreciate the gains that this feeling is wrong. In particular, because, in fact, the attack or the treatment of weaknesses is solely intended not to repeat itself and to correct itself as much as possible, not because of this or this option, but mainly because of the victims who are entitled to the maximum and maximum extent possible, that this aid is effective, that it ensures safe stay and that this aid should also be more sustainable. For what has happened to the great number, not only to the four families that have been hurt, that they are now again, repeating the exercise, and most certainly not necessary. In the proposals that we proposed as a conclusion, it was also the freezing of obligations, the postponement, whatever it is called, for at least a while, until they either move in or whatever, that is where some great practice of transfiguration is now being done. When we proposed this on 22 July, it was said that this was not a matter of law, that the law could not solve everything and that it was pointless to resolve it in the law, said the minister, it could be done with other instruments and so on. Finally, or at least so, the service that is called for finds that this is not possible, but cannot be postponed for one year of payment to those who are not, of course, enthusiastic about the positions when they are in temporary locations; but now we have found that it is not possible. On July 22nd, you argued that this is not a matter of marriage, that it does not have to be incorporated into the law somehow, because there are more options for it, but now we have found that this is not possible. This shows all the absence of will for the actual help of people, because so far, as I know, many of the most affected, at least a few days of fresh information, still gets the tickets and probably those four, five lucky people have hit some game again or got lucky again. In short, I also find it difficult to understand, in fact, such an automatic rejection is difficult to understand, because the decision proposed summarises in fact some of the facts which have been shown, which are also evident and, in fact, very clearly states that it takes appropriate measures to ensure that certain solutions are made, which are set out in certain indents. Of course, the government is that executive apparatus and professionally and with its apparatus, which will determine how certain things change, for some it is necessary to prepare an amendment to the law, some possible by regulation, etc. It is probably for these things that are proposed, which could, if prepared, be improved through discussions, there are probably more options. We are deliberately, the original version was to propose an urgent amendment to the law and to supplement the law in order to summarise all of this - and an initiative for civil protection. Some of the weaknesses found here are also reflected. However, of course - no; it is automatically rejected, two indents, a job: this is not possible without law. We have not prejudged the way we act here, we have merely addressed the government, not because of the applicants, especially because of the affected ones, who in fact need to facilitate the current situation in this way. And, of course, what measures; this is then a matter of judgment, a matter of technique, and it could also be found that any of these areas cannot be defined for such or other reasons. And it is said that our thinking that such a decision means more room for manoeuvre, the real government would then be judged, some with regulations or I do not know with instruments that are legal, which are effective, and others we will not, because we consider that they are not okay, and others are actually possible only through a change of law, because otherwise they cannot be realized - no, that has not happened, and that is regrettable. This is, however, a logical consequence of the immovable view that, in fact, these matters are totally unnecessary because they are all going well; in fact, things as they are, they can only lead to a positive result, nothing else. And the only thing that meant some unloving story is that this report from ZAG, and everything else can be run over. That is why I would conclude with the conviction that this debate - although I would rather have seen that it was a month ago, not because of elections or not elections, but because of the fact that the affected receive an answer as soon as possible. By the way, what's gonna happen? It will happen that any changes that would be in favour of better efficiency will probably not happen this year. And it's a great damage, again, not because of a plus or a minus for any option, but because of people who expect a very fast coming winter, which usually shows a lot of bad teeth. However, I would not conclude with such a passport as the Minister has committed, but now those who will take over these hot bones will see what they can do, but with the appeal that the future composition, when the necessary necessary changes take place, will accept this favored, benevolent and, I repeat, in order to help people. There was also some belief in the debate, which I believe is also the result of misleading both the public and this assembly, if the arguments as well as those four objects are so repeated that in the end they seem to be true, then they are made as sub-menus as if we were ungrateful in Soča, but there are many retarded and neglected, and as if not everyone would actually prefer that there be no accident, but even though then the development would be slower and probably never have a new house at all. But he had a home, didn't he? In short, in conclusion, I would only suggest that these decisions be supported, in contrast to the Committee, and that something that has happened, however, be eluded and that the next composition of this assembly and the executive power which will be used. However, I believe that there will also be a number of people who have worked so far and who have certainly given a great deal, still on this boat, which only has to be redirected so as not to fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u83	Thank you. I give my word to the government, Mr. Minister Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. There were some other things that I didn't reply to before, but they were actually repeating themselves all the time. First, the price for a state technical office. The state technical office cost about 15% of the earthquake recovery, and this is the most common thing when we talk about construction works - 15% for design, control and organization is a normal percentage. The fact is, the price of an engineering watch is what it is -- we didn't make it up. The fact is that the engineering year costs between 12 million and 15 million dollars, and if you recalculate that data, you'll see that it's purely normal, normal costs. Of course, it doesn't seem too much to say to you, because if you're going to organize it, of course you're going to run into exactly the same price constraints, because the fact is that control has to be, design has to be, and it's going to cost as much as it costs. The other thing is, once again, there were some readings from a report from a construction agency that we don't really have at all at the ministry. Mr Pukšič, don't laugh, what you have in your hands is a draft report and I checked it out in the meantime, so I was also absent, which the authors took back after they received their comments, and wrote a new report. You don't have their final report, but all you have is a summary of the final report that I've divided into benches.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u85	Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u86	In this summary of the report, only what is written in the final report is actually written on the object. Therefore, what you are quoting, you do not have the right to quote, and for the right to quote, of course, you must ask the authors of the report, not me. What you have is not a final report that would be given by the construction agency. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u87	Can you hold on?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u88	And what did the construction agency really say, ask the construction department, not me. What you have before you is a partial report which has been withdrawn on the basis of comments from the state technical office and we do not really have it at the Ministry. But of course you can get a new final report, nothing arranged, but you can contact me as far as I'm concerned, directly to the construction agency, so you won't say that we've arranged anything and have the construction agency send you the final report, not what you read there, and it's incorrect. One of the discussers - I think Mr Petan - read something and said: there was no connection. In particular, it was a dairy facility. In fact, the draft report of the construction agency said that there was no connection, they were looking for it near the attic, but then, when this draft report came in, the state technical office responded to these findings and, of course, proved to the authors of this report that it was, but it was above the basement and then, of course, they corrected this claim because they were facing actual data. Therefore, of course, it must be taken into account, Mr Pukšič, and please do not interrupt me, what you are saying is a partial report that has been corrected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u89	My friend Pukšič, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u90	corrected by [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u91	Can you please let the minister say what he thinks?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u92	Mr Pukšič, I understand that you can't do any other work than people to insult and criminalize and that you will also do it for the next four years, that is clear to me, and that in this country it will be difficult, because of course you will criminalize yourself in every way, but the facts must be taken into account. And the fact is the final report of the construction agency, which, of course, is no secret, you can get it, and I don't have it right now, but there are precise indications. And the correct statement is that in four cases, not nine like you said, there were mistakes. And we don't hide these mistakes. We've highlighted them in particular. That is why, of course, I have no choice but to say that the entire process of rebuilding 1444 objects was exemplaryly carried out, that in individual cases, of course, there has been some kind of error, in these four concretely. But we discovered one before, last year, where one construction company showed that the connection had been built, but in fact it turned out that it had not at all. We have, of course, already sanctioned that case. However, I do not think any further analysis should show, because now there has been so much verification that there are probably any additional errors where they should not be found, although of course this is never excluded either. It is important that the control system works and that, of course, errors are also properly sanctioned. Otherwise, the earthquake’s reconstruction in 1998 was good. The earthquake recovery in this year, as I mentioned earlier, was, of course, as fast as it was in 1998, even because of slightly different starting points. This year we did not insist as much on maintaining the building heritage as we did in 1998, and for this reason we went to the expected more demolitions and replacements of these buildings with the assembly facilities that we are trying to bring closer to the building heritage of that area, but this can never really be fully done. The installation will never look like the volume massive building from that area, but it can be an approximation that can be seen at a distance as little as a fake. But of course it was the desire of these people in this area to go into this kind of reconstruction, because, after all, there was great pressure on the public to not look so much at beauty, but at efficiency, we changed the concept and went to a greater extent into new construction. We have set ourselves, we have also set ourselves criteria, when the cost of the planned recovery exceeds 40% of the projected cost of the new construction, then it goes to new construction. On this basis, we predict that in the municipality of Bovec we will build between 50 and 70 new buildings and in the municipality of Kobarid from 12 to 20, 25 about, that is the assessment. However, this year's earthquake, thank God, was limited to a locational substantially smaller area, although the effects were much worse there, so that it was actually more manageable than the 1998 earthquake, I am talking about financial control, because at the time it was a substantial number of objects. The proposed conclusions that you have proposed are, in my view, totally unnecessary. In our report, we replied to you that, in fact, they were either realized or discussed by Parliament in the form of a legal dictatorship. If you want to propose a change of law, then propose a change of law, not such decisions. But as for things that do not require a change of law, they are not really tangible and are in some way their own intention. When withdrawing or transferring from the opposition to the ruling coalition - to which it will have to become accustomed - it is necessary to be concrete in proposing certain measures; there is no operational way to carry out an earthquake recovery with general dictates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u93	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I read these two sentences, so the statement you gave isn't exactly correct, so I volunteered for the replica. "Although the documentation provided for, in one case, we did not find any wall connections during the inspection." So they weren't there. "In one case, a horizontal link instead of a ceiling is placed above the window edge." That's a big difference. If it is laid down as envisaged under the plan, or if it is laid down a little lower - this is a significant difference. And it doesn't matter if it's a change of government or not a change of government, the connection has to be where the profession defined it. Although the profession may be mistaken, if the plan so provides, the contractor must not do so. And where she was supposed to be, she wasn't. That's what they say. Someone changed plans that they shouldn't have; that didn't make any excuses. And it's not the same thing that we found a little bit lower after the re-examination. That's no excuse, because then we'd revise the expertise. All right, well, if she was somewhere else, we could have found her in the basement, so to speak, she was laid down. That's not true! We did not lay it down to lay it down to spend material, but to serve its purpose. So if there's been a connection in the ceiling, then it has to be there. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u95	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister has informed me that I have read a report for which I should be authorised by the Slovenian Construction Office. Mr. Minister, the report does not say "classified", "strictly confidential", or anything like that, but says "procurement: the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy". Mr Minister, you have the taxpayer's money, not yours, you haven't paid for it with your money, so as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I have the right to see and read this report because there is no confidential nature. Second, it says "order and contract number" to read it to you, it says "responsible medium" and it says "authors." Then it says "the signature of the responsible holder and director, Ljubljana, August 2004". And Mr. Minister, you have indicated that this is a draft report, including this statement, Mr. Minister, is not correct, it is not correct, because the report says, I hope that some camera will detect this: The analysis of the condition of objects damaged by the earthquake. And Mr. Minister, if you can't see, I'll show you that there's no draft on this, but that it says that because it says more on a little, final report. Here you go, Minister, this is the final report you have, of course. And you received this report in August, 9.9th and the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the other parties, requested a meeting, you already had the report and, of course, you were afraid to discuss it in the National Assembly. If you ordered it and you don't have it, then you have to tell me where that report is! The Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy - this is not true either, because you say you do not have it, you ordered it, you have the number of the contract 252304 and so on of 12.08.2004. Then there is Zag, number, of 17.08.2004. You can't say you don't have it. This report states: Introduction and purpose of analysis, regulations and earthquake forces, principles and methods of earthquake control of buildings and methods of analysis of the state of the buildings under A and B: Analysis of the state of the objects under B1 to B10, these are the objects. Then under C - Earthquake 12.07.2004 and its effect on buildings, Some characteristics of the earthquake, The effects of the earthquake on buildings and Analyses of the dynamic response of typical walled buildings. And under D, Mr. Secretary, Summary and Conclusion. General project documentation, Implementation part, Assessment of earthquake resistance of inspected facilities and Conclusions. Now, a few minutes ago, we received a summary of the members of the National Assembly at the table. Who are you to do a summary?Oh, my God! I'm the one who asked you to file a report. Minister, this is the report you paid with the taxpayer's money. Because this report shows that you paid for something else because it wasn't done. Of the 10 analyzed objects you paid 90%, which, of course, can then be said in the whole of Posoč and all of these strong ten billion went to 9 billion -- the question of where. So only one billion actually went for what it was meant for. And, Mr Minister, you can't fool yourself in this way, because it's called politics and sneezing and pulling citizens and citizens' noses, you can't do a summary. You're giving a report that you ordered and paid for. Give this report to the Members and Members of Parliament. This is what Members and Members deserve. And I'm not going through those ten objects through, but just one piece over a summary that's not exactly what you're talking about. You spoke of four objects, in this report and also in a summary paid by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, about ten cases. Just look at the description of the state of construction and the verification of dimensions, then you tell citizens and citizens here that this is a temporary report, that after you corrected it - of course, you corrected it in this way! Yes, but Minister, this is a summary of a report you corrected, which is a political pamphlet, this is not an expert report. Thank God the profession really did. And even the minister, if you remember, I finally told you; thank you, you were smart, you did, you ordered a report, and you got this report. But the problem from here on out is that you silenced this report. You didn't pay him out of your wallet, out of your pocket, then you could shut him up, then even if you paid him with your money to tell the experts what to write or you could dictate, someone would sign if you wanted to. But when you work with taxpayers' money, you don't have that right. This is my objection to instructing the Minister in his work when he did not speak with accuracy and did not state exactly what he said. [[...]] [[The vice president's warning on the length of the replica.]] Mr Vice-President, I am only talking about the report and the report, because it has been clear that I have no right to it and that I have no right to speak about it, that I need to get some agreement. [[...]] No consensus in this country since we no longer have secret official papers, Minister, I don't need anything paid for by the taxpayer's money. And if this is about the rehabilitation of the Court, because this rehabilitation was also with money, not only with the taxpayers' money, but also with the special money of citizens and citizens, this Court was then saved. You have no right to say we can't talk about this. According to this report, the report can only be reproduced in full. Here, Minister, in full: I started with an introduction, an analysis, an earthquake, and a summary. Look, it's completely reproduced, Minister. You have it, you have to give it to these Members because you ordered it. Why are you obliged - because the report itself says: "There is no data in the documentation on the condition of the structures before the intervention. The designers did not always check the dimensions of the structures, so they are in the documentation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u97	My friend Pukšič, I'd like to ask you something now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u98	false values. [[...]] Mr. Vice President, I have time, I have a replica, and I can. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u99	The replica lasts three minutes and should have taken your word and there will be time for discussion. Let me lead, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u100	Vice President, I have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u101	Ki, it's been seven minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u102	The minister said. [[...]] Of the 150 sentences he said, 250 sentences said false, so I have to fix it, it's no different, really. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u103	My friend Pukšič, you won't even let me tell you what I wanted. The replica lasts 3 minutes, you've exceeded it for 7, 8 minutes, I just wanted to warn you, I'll give you another word for the debate, because there's still time for the debate, and you can say anything you want there. And please don't tell me I'm working against the rules of procedure. I'm still here, as long as I'm here in this place, I have a duty to do. However, the material was not signed by the Minister, this summary, but by the holder of the task of Prof. Dr. Miha Tomaževič and the Director of Prof. Dr. Miha Tomaževič. I can't argue with that. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u104	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Again and again, I must point out that you are reading a text that is the working text of the Construction Office and is not the final report they gave to the Ministry is not a final report. The final report is no secret, and you can get it, but I've given it a summary, because it's much shorter. You will also get a final report that will, of course, confirm what I am telling you all the time: the construction agency has found fault with four buildings, but no more. And we don't hide any of these mistakes, but now we don't have to criminalize it in a way that you read some text that is still full of mistakes and Dr. Tomaževič even physically took this text back and said when you were warned about certain mistakes, and he said that it would be properly corrected and it is properly corrected and now you have a summary of the new report here.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u105	Let me, my friend Pukšič, let me now, let me, let me, no, it's not. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Over here. [[..]] I think we have two hours, and listen to me for ten seconds. I have concluded the debate between Members and Members. I gave my word to the proposer, I gave my word to the government, and I allowed the replicas three times longer than the rules of procedure. Now, in accordance with Rule 71 of our Rules of Procedure, I find that time is still available, I am reading the application, who else wants to discuss and we will go to a round of five minutes of debate. Four names. My friend Puksich, I'll give you the first word. Excuse me, five minutes and please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u106	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u107	Please don't jump into anyone's word. Let us be this last cultural and proper meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u108	Six or ten times, if you like, I will also tell the Minister a hundred times that the report says "closing report". But if the minister can't read, then it's sad, but I believe he can, but he's not making a fool of me or himself, but he's making fun of the Slovenian public, the Slovenian taxpayers. Minister, I'm not going to let you make fun of them, because I can, like any of your kind, but the Minister, on the report says "closing report" and don't say it's a draft anymore. This is the final report and this final report you are obliged to give to Slovenian parliamentarians, because Slovenian parliamentarians are not idiots, Slovenian nationals are not stupid to not be able to read irregularities and inconsistencies with what they "cassified" and what is written in the building book. It didn't work that way, not by design, not by execution, not by state, not by technical offices, but only by a lot of money, and the Slovenian taxpayers paid for it. That's the problem. And you're going to be talking about some kind of interim or what I know about some report, a draft report that they fixed. What was then repaired, tell me, Minister, did they repair that the base walls in the inspected site were not injected at facility six? What does this report now say instead of this sentence? Minister, what does it say? That the basic walls in the inspected site were not injected, but we do not think there was any need to inject, but because we thought it would be necessary to inject, but we charged the injection and paid for it. Please! Who do you think you are? You could've written that sometimes when the secret letters were written. I hope you're aware of that today. I'm not gonna talk about it. I will take the summary and conclusions of the final report under number B-105-5-04-650/1. Computer evidence. The voltages in the walls and under the base were also controlled in only two cases. Then the following: injection. As shown by the transparent drilling, the execution of injections in the inspected facilities cannot be considered as successful. Is the technical report - you know, I'm also a technician - Mr Minister, I'm an electrical engineer and we've had a lot to do with the tables. The table can't be fixed, unless, of course, you're lying. That's another story. It says here, "all objects are listed, designation, name and description of the object", and then it says "number of wells - foundations, number of wells - walls". And then it says "N" and "S" and "D." NI - means no injection mass, S - means traces of injecting mass, D - well injected. Minister, out of the 46 holes that were drilled, only 6 holes were correct, well injected and 40 were not. Calculate your percentage, not 90% 10%. There's a higher percentage that's been paid and unmade. 40 holes were not injected, but only 6 were injected. That's technical information, my dear. These are the technical data, which - and this is the profession, as colleague Anderlich said: "Who will we believe if not the professions." I also said, "We have a profession to make policy have arguments!" Not for some embezzlement and pretending, Minister, it's nothing! [[...]] It's nothing! It's not for those spaces yet, because it's too hard paper. This is a report which can be reproduced in full. You too are obliged to give it to Slovenian Members because citizens and citizens have paid for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u109	Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u110	One more time. Look, I didn't make a sound at this debate, but what I heard a few times from the Minister here when he quoted from the report was that he resented the Member, that he couldn't blame himself, when he quoted from the expert report, but I think it's something that's unheard of. Indeed, this is in line with the doctrine of Mr Lahovnik, which they explained on the day that he did not see among the millions of Slovenians who could have been able to replace him who had not yet fallen away. Mr. Minister, you're saying we don't have a report at all. I was also a technical director myself, and I'm a technician - once it didn't happen, and we asked a number of technical expertise not to do so. They could add a supplement, and here you can see, and I also heard from the professional circles that you were putting pressure on the experts that they had to fix. It's an unheard-of thing! We're supposed to add supplements, post-scriptum - a mistake was made. That's not how you do it! And summaries. In fact, it's an unheard-of thing. And you're saying the report isn't final and there's no final report and there's no drafts. You had everything in your hands at the end of August, even before an extraordinary meeting was requested. You were absolutely terrified that the truth would come on the day. You thought by hiding the truth, you'd get an election. But people are looking deeper, they've seen the depth. And in the Soča we were, our delegation group, in 1999, one year after the earthquake, and what the injured people were telling us on the ground is exactly what was in this report. That's when we warned each other at the emergency session, so you didn't tell them. You defended from the point of view "state, that's what we, you don't have, opposition, what to say." And this policy has now paid you in a strange way. And we keep hearing that that's not true, which says black on white. Why are there summaries of expert reports? It's an insult to us, a technique to force them into something! Every tech can read reports in the original. And you forced them, but some of your propagandists, like Mr. Toš, forged their own public opinion reports; but they themselves worked for your benefit. And this was a picture of this country during this period. Now that the election has turned out to be a long time, you haven't accepted the lesson from the election. I think it's time to give people the right thing to do. There in Soča in 1999 it was said among the people, it is planned to stall, it is planned to spend money that we are in those containers, that we will move as many of us as possible, that this land and all this light prey will be taken; the ethnic border of Slovenia is still in the interior. We heard terrible things back then, and we warned you about that. At the time of the new earthquake, it came all day. You rushed here in the wake of a new earthquake. Mr. Prime Minister went there. The current earthquake recovery law was presented by the Prime Minister with five ministers. But at the time when we accepted the basic, only Mr. Begging was here when he was still the Undersecretary of State. Then there was no minister. Some have memories and people have memories and see the difference between promises and reality. And the gap between reality and promises in this area of the earthquake reconstruction of Soča is terrible. And please accept the facts as they are. We can't go into a new term with the wrong picture. Unfortunately, the picture is what it turned out to be on the ground, as it has proved in all areas, and there is no point in concealing the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u112	In particular, I will discuss at the conclusion of the Minister that, in fact, the conclusions are entirely inadequate because they are general. In fact, the conclusions summarise the situation. The expectations of people, not least of civil initiatives, and in fact I do not know what is wrong with them, because if I quote "we suggest that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately examine and take appropriate measures to ensure: the equality of all affected and equal starting points and the right to state aid, the burden of the obligations affected by the 1998 earthquake by cancelling all debts incurred during the moratorium and reducing the credit obligation for one third, the immediate freeze of the payment of the Easter earthquake obligations to all those with re-injured buildings, the construction prices for reconstruction comparable to market prices in the Republic of Slovenia, and the professional reconstruction that will ensure safe and quality stay in restored facilities and effective development measures. Now, if the only flaw of these is that it will not be accepted because they are general, then the matter is really hopeless. In fact, all the alumni sum up people's expectations, but they will be disappointed, because at donations we see one they will get a lot to not say everything, the other nothing but gambling; but the natural disaster must not be solved or its consequences in such a way. Now, how technically to do this was just an appeal to the government, but everyone else, of course, is focused on gaining people's confidence, that they will trust in what is going to happen, and that they will expect things to not happen again, as they did on July 12th, and that once again their efforts will be in vain when such reconstruction is very traumatic and very painful. And now with our left hand, let's say, "Yeah, be specific!" No, we have appealed to the government to study and repeat, perhaps many of the desires that lie in these areas, even though such great benevolents cannot be realized, but if seriously examined, it would probably result in measures that would mean that people can trust in the future and that some things will not happen again or everything will be done to prevent them from repeating themselves. With this, when we hear in these debates today that the analysis was actually a little bit wrong, we are not following this. And I repeat, this must be done not for the sake of the applicants, but for the people affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u113	Thank you. The word gets Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I had previously listened to my colleague, Školč, who had missed the presence of Members in the Chamber, but now that he has said his things, he has also left, so I would have warned him first. Secondly, I don't really understand the logic that is being offered to us here either. Look, colleagues and colleagues, if we're going to load ourselves, then we've done a bear a favor. So this treatment is actually intended to eliminate, if anything was wrong, to confess and to eliminate what was wrong in the future. But if this is about us correcting a report, then it really makes no sense that we are talking about it at all, but we will not be able to impose nature. So the next time an earthquake occurs - and since we had, I don't know, two more earthquakes in this area between 1976 and today, it is expected that in the next ten, fifteen years this area will again be affected by the earthquake. And who can say that he'll be less intense than he was in July, but what if we get a 7th degree earthquake or more. And then we wonder what's gonna happen. So, I see this debate in this direction, too, to sort things out. And here before us is the report of the institution, which is what it is. Now, the Minister says that this is just a draft, and I don't see myself on this report, or I don't know how we got it, because obviously all Members don't have it and we've proposed with SDS a decision that you haven't gotten on the table yet to give this report to all Members. It says here "the final report", prepared by the Ministry and received by the Ministry. Now the Minister has said, I have prepared a shorter version for you, one summary, which was also signed by the same author as this final report, but this summary refers to this report. I will read to you on the last page: "The examination of damaged objects has shown that they have been in the project documentation," says projects, notification documentation - in principle, appropriate regulatory measures have been envisaged, which have been mainly carried out professionally. Inconsistentities in the design and implementation phase are specifically mentioned in the report 1005/04-650 August 2004. So, this summary, too, Mr. Minister, refers to that and you have that. But here the picture is really like I was given, and I spoke briefly here on behalf of the Group of Members about what the Members have further clarified. Ten objects. And you also mention in your report that in the institution of construction as the most competent organization in this field of Slovenia, you have commissioned an analysis of these six, which was reviewed by this state technical office itself and four additional facilities. So, I understand that this report covers these six, four of which are in your report, and four others. And of these ten sites examined, there is a report that virtually one did not detect deficiencies and nine found major shortcomings. I wonder what would actually happen if someone went to see all the facilities that had been repaired? What kind of image would you get? Look, this debate is not going to go away in public, but it is necessary, so it would be better that, let's say, if something were wrong, we admit [[We're still in recovery.]] , even looked at things, yet to be corrected, and it is urgent that these matters be dealt with differently. And once again, the control being done within this state-owned technical office is wrong. This must be done, control must be immediately separated from those who order and pay operators. It is necessary to separate immediately, and the supervisory function must be immediately granted to someone who is coming out of this, because only then will it be possible to ensure that this control actually works objectively and that we will not get it on the proposal - I do not know who it is, I do not believe that it is the Minister who ordered that you then get a summary that should somehow deter us from this report. But once again, this summary is being supplemented and related to this report. I am running out of time, so we have proposed one conclusion that this report, 1005/460 or what number it is, is given to all Members. I hope that you will accept this and that you will demand that what is written here in a very extensive format be obtained by all. And then you actually see what we're talking about here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The analysis showed serious recovery errors in just four cases, as described in this report we received. As I mentioned earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group, I was visiting Bovec the second day after the earthquake and, among other things, I looked at two objects - of course, it was a visit of a completely private nature. Both of these facilities were damaged in 1998 and completely repaired. In one of these two buildings in the Govebar victims market, there was absolutely no damage except one brick on the chimney. In the second building on the street As the object had to be completely demolished because it was so damaged despite its complete rehabilitation. This is described in the report on page 37 transmitted to us by the government. Well, then when I read this, and when I talked to the experts in front of our hall, I learned that the contractor had proposed his recovery technology, although the supervisory authority then acted and demanded further action. I also learned that this contractor had 20 to 30% cheaper concrete, and of course the error is more than logical in this report. Well, and when I found out about this contractor's company, it was clear to me right away, because I know a few mistakes from his past. Of course, this contractor has long been no longer on the list of state-owned technical offices, and today it is considered one of the most vocal critics of the earthquake recovery in the Usoča. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u117	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I give my word to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to stress that the report of the construction agency - what Mr Pukšič read - is a draft report and that we have then received an updated report. It probably has the same marking as the first one, but the text is different. However, how the corrections have been made, and I would like to stress this in particular. Me and Mayor Bovec, the new SDS Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, have jointly ordered a review of 15 sites in two court experts who have already proved themselves by properly detecting errors in the earthquake recovery; these were Mr Prinčič and Mr Globokar. These two looked at 15 objects, and the same 10 looked at 5 other objects. The construction office examined them 10 times. We gave them a 30, we said, 6 is critical in our opinion, look at any of the potentially 30 problematic wills. And that's how it got to 15 and 10. These two experts found in their 15 reports that the earthquake recovery was appropriate in 13 cases, while the two highlighted it as problematic and two of these four - two. However, after we showed their expert opinion to the construction agency and when we drew attention to some of the errors made by the construction department in the individual statements in relation to the documentation we have at our disposal, they, of course, took the report back and sent a new version of the report, which points out the problem in the four buildings. But why doesn't one of the SDS members read the report of the two experts we ordered with the mayor of Boveca, where it was found that in 13 cases everything was fine? No! No! Rather, it highlights something that has been wrongly recorded in a draft report, which is now, of course, subsequently eliminated. Just to get things in trouble. We don't want to hide mistakes. It's in my own best interest to clear this up. That's why I went to order this analysis, but not now to create this analysis. This analysis showed that there was indeed a problem in the four facilities and in one of them, as Corr. 54A, exactly what happened today was what you were having a problem with. Injections have been performed, her injection marks. True, but that's why we've already done the right thing. Not now, though, criminalize it in all cases of earthquake recovery. There have been mistakes and we don't hide them, and that's important. And that is why, of course, I would appeal to the fact that the facts are taken into account, even though they are unpleasant, but not that of course they are criminalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u119	You weren't appointed. No, no, no. No, you didn't. Really, no, I can't. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]] No, he's not in the last debate. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]] Well, at least I'm not going to close. Mr. Puksich. Three minutes is a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u120	Vice President, I hope I don't take advantage of it. Mr. Secretary! We're criminalizing. The case is criminalized because you criminalized it yourself. Now look; in this report, I looked at this from the government, what you sent; the Chezsocha 94 - dairy facility. It's under B1 - dairy. The report sent by the government to Members reads: "Weak injection results" and the end. ZAG wrote: "In the examined base wall of traces, the injection mass is not visible" and further, "uninjected walls are contrary to the book of calculation measurements, from which it is evident that all the surrounding walls, basements and floors should be injected." Minister, here's the substantive difference. Poor injection results, nothing can be seen from this, it's misleading, it's criminalizing if such an expert report is translated into this bad political language. It's about responsibility! On the basis of this debate adopted by the National Assembly, from the decisions taken and this report we have, you are obliged to file complaints on an official basis against all those who have thus worked contrary to both the supervisory, both the contractors and the supervisory designers, etc. These, Minister, are crimes and you will be liable to incriminate them because someone has also signed the book. It was signed by the contractor, signed by the supervisor, signed it, probably by this technical office, and I don't know who else. Minister, all three must have a complaint against this because it says that the uninjected walls are in conflict with the ledger of the account book, and you are now telling me that this report, which we now have on the table, is the draft report! This is a technical report, which is a classic technical report, so we know how to work -- constructionists, engineers, chemists, electricity, etc. But politicians, politicians. I also believe politicians know how to make a good report. However, politicians write this: poor injection results, failure of control, critical condition of the foundations, the supervisor should identify and take appropriate action or alert during the execution. This should also take into account the limited financial resources. Yes, 11 billion or as much as has been spent, yes, "love God," from this conclusion, we are all responsible for everything. Mrs Pozsoncheva is guilty and is responsible that she has done so down there and that it was 11 billion money - she is not responsible; she is not responsible for it, but she has the right to know if she is a member of the National Assembly where this money went. Minister, it's your fault and your responsibility. Looks like we're gonna have to file a complaint against you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u121	A word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u122	Now I have a replica. Mr Pukšič, we have had two reports - the construction office and two experts from the judicial experts. These two forensic experts, for example, found an injection in one facility and had no comments, and the construction plant in the other wells did not find this at the same facility. When we compared this, we said what now applied: whether it was or was not, then the construction agency went back to rechecking and corrected its original statement, which you are reading here. But what you are reading is an initial statement and, of course, the final report should be viewed. I will ask you to avoid misunderstandings, with your permission to ask me or if the President of the National Assembly of the Construction Department will send a final report so you won't say we're faking anything. That I will not quote Mr Tomažević, nor will you explain what Mr Tomaževič meant to say to Mr Tomaževič himself. I'm not embarrassed and facing arguments is no problem. To operate here with some data which, of course, do not have an argument, because all of this was produced in the process of this analysis, but it is, of course, unfair to everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u123	So we closed the debate. No, he had only a replica now at the end. Come on, Mr. Puksich, two sentences.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, I agree - what you said you would get Members a final report, the one you are talking about. You will also get Members this final report that I have, and then give Members enough time to read it; to compare tables to compare texts, such as, of course, it cannot be a summary of that report, as you yourself wrote, a bad result of the injection. I have previously read specifically in the technical language, I have read in the engineering language as described in the report. Then both of you! And it would be a great time for you to give this to the Slovenian Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u125	Colleagues and colleagues, this concludes the debate and we will move to a vote on the proposal for a decision of the Infrastructure Committee in the report of this Committee [[You got him on the bench.]] . I shall put the proposal for a decision of the Committee to the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u126	I just want to ask you, Vice President. In New Slovenia and the SDS we proposed another proposal for a decision, and I ask why we did not get it on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u127	Yes, this report, to which this proposal for an additional decision concerns, does not in fact have - an analysis of the situation of objects damaged by the earthquake on 12.7.2004, to be forwarded to all members of the national assembly. This is a proposal for a decision. [[Back-up advertising.]] Wait a minute! Let us now go in line; this is an additional decision, and once we have voted in line, we will also come to this proposal. Now we have explanations of vote. Comrade Tsukati, did you want to explain your voice? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u128	The conclusions proposed allow for a more representative operation of the technical office, a relief of the burdens of those affected who had already suffered damage at the time of the Easter earthquake in 1998 and now at the same facilities again. Let me stress just two conclusions that are extremely important. That is to say, the decision C to freeze the payment of the Easter earthquake obligations immediately to all those who have re-injured facilities, those facilities which have been rehabilitated by the State, this country, as instructed by the State Office, and also pay and pay off all debts. And, of course, because the country was responsible for the quality of rehabilitation, it is also responsible for the consequences of poor quality. And if he doesn't forgive them, they'll practically get new loans on the old loan, which will bury them. The second conclusion is that the construction price for reconstruction should be the same as in Slovenia in the market economy. Not as determined by the state office and the price is two to three times higher. For this reason, gentlemen, I propose that you reject the proposal of a committee that destroys our proposal for conclusions, of course, if you want something good to the Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u129	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, I will put the motions of the proposals to the vote. May I have your attention, please? In its report, the Infrastructure Committee has made a different proposal not to adopt these decisions. You've got them in front of you, you've got them on the table, you've got the report so there won't be any mistake as to what we're voting on. I will put the proposal to the vote. However, you have an opinion or you have a conclusion of the committee. [[...]] Please, colleague Irma.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u130	Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u131	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u132	I think that cards need to be taken back from the voting devices and put them back, because there was something wrong in the middle and I suggest that all colleagues and colleagues do it because 30 cards are inserted, and I think there are definitely more of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your warning. Now I'd like to ask you to examine the voting device. Insert the cards, see if the lights are burning at the card, so we can vote with credibility. Mamić, don't work Try a little already. [[...]] [[...]] Anyone else? He's a friend of mine. The card's not working. Let's give it a try. It hasn't been used for a long time, and it's still working there. [[...]] So we're ready to vote. We are voting on the proposal for proposals. I'm calling off the vote. Comrade Tank, look again. Now he's working again. [[...]] We'll re-vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the conclusions of the applicants are not accepted. Allow Following the rules of procedure of this additional decision, you should not put to the vote. [[...]] With this point, we've been doing this for four years. [[...]] The Minister, however, promised in his explanation that this analysis or this report would be fully sent to the National Assembly. Procedural proposal, colleague Sok and then colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u134	I propose that you explain why not, Mr President. This proposal, because the Members did not receive it on the table, a proposal for an additional decision, I also do not know why they did not receive it. The proposal for this conclusion is that Members - not said today - receive this report from the construction agency, whether it is the final report or just a draft. So if this is a draft, then the final report will probably be slightly different, but in this summary that you gave us today, Mr Minister, we have received it at your request, this summary relates to this report. So this is a proposal for this decision, and I think that if you have already rejected the conclusions, but this conclusion that you do not want to have the report that the expert team has drawn up, you will probably not reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u135	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u136	I really don't see any problem and need to stall at this point. Simply, the chairman or president of the National Assembly should send a letter from this debate to the ZAG to send the original letter, as it is, if you do not already believe in the Minister or if Mr Pukšič has received it - not to reproduce it - if he has received it legally, then let ZAG send it to him again and then he will explain it to us. But if he didn't get legal, I don't even know what's in it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, I don't know, I'm just referring to what I have on my desk and what I get by procedure in the National Assembly. [[..]] And perhaps, as the Minister has said, he will intervene, but it would be wrong for the National Assembly to now adopt something that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but that word also applies, no matter what this rule should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Closing this agenda item and moving on [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[..]] I'm the one who finished the point. It is only this report that the Minister has promised to give to all Members, and [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm closing this point and moving on to the 2nd item of the agenda. [[...]] Procedural proposal concerning agenda item 1? I've finished this point. Good to see what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I propose this procedurally and I will not use this procedure in the same way as some of the predecessors who have appointed me. But I propose, in accordance with the report we received from the government, which states: "After the order of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the Slovenian Civil Engineering Institute produced the report P 1005/04650/1, August 2004, in which, apart from the state of 10 damaged buildings," says the report, "it also analyzed the actual earthquake and its impact on buildings, compared it with modern criteria for the design of earthquake-resistant structures. Chapter 7 lists the most important findings of the analysis." And the procedural proposal is that this report, which is contained in the Government's proposal for today's item, is received by Members and Members of this National Assembly. And this is the basis for our proposal to conclude that this is an integral part of this report. Please put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u139	I think we're going back to where we were. The point is closed and we are moving on to item 2 of the agenda and you will receive the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u140	Colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 2. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE - CONSTRUCTIONALLY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE ADDITIONAL LAW, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, State Secretary Milojka Kolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Very welcome, honourable Members and honourable Members, Mr President of the National Assembly! The government has sent to this assembly a proposal for amendments to the value added tax law, by which it wishes to transpose into our legal order a decision of the European Court of Justice and a recommendation from the European Commission on preventive measures to limit the possibility of tax fraud through so-called tax wheels. In accordance with one of the last decisions of the European Court of Justice in the tax area, the taxable person may apply his deduction of that tax during the tax period when he receives the invoice. By this decision, the Court established a mandatory method of implementing Article 17 and Article 18 of the Directive, which is also precisely summarised by the Slovenian value added tax law in Article 40. However, this text also allowed for a different interpretation in practice. It is for these reasons that they are also within the European Community - the German Financial Court has brought a case before the European Court of Justice, which has decided that an added value entry tax should be deducted and enforced in the period in which all the conditions are met, even when an account is actually received. This is a very important right of a taxpayer, which must also be legally defined. If this decision of the European Court of Justice is not enforced in our legislation, then we are taking the risk of failing to comply with the European directives or the implementation of the so-called 6th Directive, which defines value added tax. The second part of the amendments relates to the implementation of the recommendation made by the European Commission on preventive measures on 21 September this year in order to prevent fraud with so-called spindles, where businesses are being set up only in the sense that they are actually rejecting the value added tax, thus essentially getting the money from the budget, and then, when it comes to paying the State an obligation to enter into value added tax, they simply disappear or are nowhere to be found. That is why we also propose that those who enter for the first time as taxpayers for value added tax in the first year are obliged to pay monthly bills. Since, of course, these new value added tax debtors are not aware of their actual volume of transport. After one year, of course, depending on the volume of traffic, they will be properly allocated if, of course, this is a smaller V3 or even six-month accounts. This, of course, also gives them the right to require each month in cases where the entry tax is higher than the exit tax, the country's corresponding refund or refund from the budget. The government therefore assesses that it is in the interest of the State, as well as the taxpayers, that the two measures proposed should be implemented as soon as possible and therefore we ask this national assembly to adopt the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur of the committee want to report? He doesn't want to. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Blaž Kavčič has the floor first on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u143	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we see in this proposal the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act a substantive necessary amendment because the proposal follows the decision of the European Court of Justice of 29 April 2004 on the correct implementation of the Sixth Directive in that part relating to the right of the taxpayers to enforce the deduction of the entry tax, as well as the recommendation of the European Commission on preventive measures to reduce the possibility of systemic evasion of value added tax, in particular the removal of value added tax in intra-Community transactions. It goes, in substance, mainly for the dynamics of applying the deduction of the entry tax. We estimate that the adoption of this amendment will contribute to reducing the possibility of planned tax abuses, and we will therefore support the proposal presented at the LDS House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u144	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by a fellow Master Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dear President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. As has already been said, these are two types of amendments which are encouraged by the European Union institution and have this objective, namely the prevention of these tax evasions, and some more precise determination of when the conditions for the calculation of the value added tax or refund are met. As has already been said about tax broadcasts, in some way, we are beginning to think about it. Because, of course, the proposed supplement is generally acceptable, but it strikes all, and strikes all the newly established companies that are completely, I would say, a normal phenomenon and are not created because of speculation, because of tax evasion, but are established, because someone wants to carry out his entrepreneurial initiative, and also, of course, this calculation will result in monthly or monthly tax accounting and not three months - or six months as possible. This, of course, can have some of the worst effects for these newly created companies than it has so far had, so let's say we consider the possibility of arbitrating the tax office or the ministry on certain exceptions or exceptions. Now, the question is true whether this tax solution is the most optimal visa for this concern. The second story is also the story of when a taxable person can deduct the entry tax when he receives the invoice and the customs declaration. This, of course, may also mean a delay in calculating the deduction of value added tax and the resolution of certain budgetary problems in terms of the fallout of a certain tax in this year's budget. However, since this is a proposed solution by the European Community institution, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Ivan Bozič will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u147	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues. The SLS Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law to the added value of EPA 1496. Perhaps, as one of the comments in this regard, I would say only this, not the content. In this national assembly, I have said many times - 'from Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we will have to correct a number of laws, because somewhere else it is written a little differently than we had. And the explanation for Article 1 says: "With the addition of Article 1, an appropriate reference is made to the legal order of the European Union, to which we are bound by the Accession Treaty." Little is it to know that this Article 1 speaks of the Sixth EEC Council Directive of 17 May 1977, and we will really have a lot to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u148	Thank you. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented by a colleague of Dr. Jožef Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u149	President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am very glad that the government has rushed through this law, which is a positive thing for one reason: that those who will no longer sit in these benches in the next term can once again be shown to the citizens and show them what we have done for them. Secondly, it has this bad connotation because this government is in a hurry because it has not explained the reason why, but we all know that it has done so because it has received additional taxes as soon as possible and this will not reduce the budget. We will support this because the European Union is asking us to do so anyway. I don't know if there's any date after which we have to do this - but anyway, we're going to support this law. Finally, let me say what I have repeatedly said that all the reports we receive from the Ministry of Finance are flawed in one point or another. That's the last time I mentioned it on the board. Otherwise, the Secretary of State replied to me, as it is stated here that some Member States estimate the loss of VAT up to 10% of the net VAT revenue. We didn't get that report or that number. If I'm not mistaken, we got the number 0.5 of the home product, and I don't know how much it is, but it's pretty much something. Such things seem to me - information that is important to the country is also important to us Members, and I would recommend that the finance ministry, whether or not, learn how such reports should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-10-07-SDZ3-Izredna-51.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote failed. We will vote again. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to gather in the hall! We're voting. There are 46 of us in attendance, in favour of 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and, at the same time, conclude the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that this is probably the last meeting before the constitution of the newly elected National Assembly, I would like to thank everyone once again for their cooperation, Members of Parliament and Members, all co-workers and co-workers in the National Assembly, representatives and representatives of the Government and all those who have worked with or have worked with us in this mandate. I wish you all the best wherever you are tomorrow and whatever you do. Good luck! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
